ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72706	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am pleased to present to you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the National Policy Proposal for the Promotion of Gender Equality from 2006 to 2010 in accordance with good practice that such documents made by the Government are presented to the Croatian Parliament to discuss this here. I believe it will be a good, broad and of course constructive debate. I would like to say an introductory word, as you have seen that in this proposal of national policy we have prepared a comprehensive review of the situation when it comes to gender equality today in Croatia on all documents brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course on all documents brought by the Croatian Parliament, but also on all the international documents to which it calls, or to which this document is referred national policy to promote gender equality. I would like to remind you or meet perhaps those who are not following this area enough, about what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done since the beginning of the term of office, so since the beginning of 2004 in this area. In fact, the government believes that gender equality is an extremely important area, since these are, of course, constitutional obligations, and they pay great attention daily. In the first year of office, we immediately established the Office for Gender Equality. I must say that this document was also drawn up in the Office, that is, in the commission set up by the Government. So the office started working very intensively in 2004. We have also established, or established, the Commissioners for Gender Equality in all bodies of the state administration, so what I can say with pleasure is that we have founded, or appointed commissioners in all ministries and that the government has made a decision that they can be officials to the lowest assistant ministers or ministers and that, of course, it is desirable to be state secretaries. And I have to say that our commissioners are responding, that they've got their job figured out. They react whenever government documents are discussed, that is, laws always do, and see if the principle of gender equality is in place. Then, of course, we brought it in, I think it's familiar to all of you, the MP ladies and gentlemen, the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence, which, of course, applies to the protection of women from violence. Also a protocol on domestic violence. The protocol is an extremely important document that we have recently completed in accordance with real life, or the needs of real life. The protocol clearly provides for what institution at which point it is obliged to react when domestic violence occurs, i.e. violence against women most often against children. Women are known to be the most common victims of domestic violence. According to the protocol, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible for more or more to happen in life, but of course all those who are opposed to the protocol will be sanctioned, so it is impossible for anyone to respond, for example, to a report from a woman who has been harassed, who is very often threatened, whose life is very often threatened, which does not call the police, to protect her from a domestic bully. So it can't happen that in that case anyone snaps their hand and says it's a private thing that stays behind four walls but the police have to react, come to the scene, take their weapons if it's a weapon, if there's an indication that they have guns to do everything to find and what's most important is to remove the bully and protect the victim. The protocol also states how social care centres, schools, kindergartens should respond in this case if there are children. So it clearly states who's in charge of what, and I think the protocol is just giving results because a growing number of victims decide to report a bully. We also declared September 22nd the National Day of Combating Violence against Women. So we are one of the few countries that have their own national day with an international Day against violence against women. We did this in memory of three women who were killed in the municipal court in 1999. A woman in a divorce case, a judge and a lawyer, of course, the killer was a bully, a husband who had been oppressing his family for years, abused his wife, and ended up with horrible murders. We, too, have incorporated provisions that protect against violence in the amendments to the Penal Code, but we think that the Penal Code should continue to improve. Then I would like to inform you that in making changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of Family Violence, where we want to achieve two goals, first of all in a better way to define the family in that sense that women are better protected from domestic abusers, therefore families which are often the extramarital community, families often returned to the bully after the divorce and also better define what this abuse is. What is abuse in a family that does not have to be only physically, is very often the psychological harassment, waiting, cell phone threats, the phone, very often perhaps even scarier than any physical one. What I would also like to point out with pleasure is that we have given full support to women NGOs who are engaged in different ways in the protection of women, i.e. the protection of women who are victims of violence. That, in this sense, the Government also gives considerable financial assistance to these associations, from here, the Autonomous Women's House in Zagreb, which would probably have been shut down if there had been no assistance from both the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, but certainly also the Government itself. Then, shelters such as in Karlovac, the "Step" Association and many others. In addition, I would also like to point out that, for example, the employment programme, i.e. the employment programme, and for this year, we have specifically encouraged the employment of women, i.e. the assistance of women who are victims of violence. So we have a special program for women victims of violence. Also for women entrepreneurs, for women with disabilities, and I think that's one extra value. What I would also point out is that, for example, in the ministry where I led a special support, let's say, the employment of deaf women. And at the beginning of this debate, I would also like to point out with satisfaction that the Economic and Social Council, after the Government adopted this document, discussed the national policy to promote gender equality, that we have also received their support, that many of the union's proposals, that is, our social partners are embedded in this document. As I said, a working group appointed by the Government participated in national policy making, and here it is after the agreement of the members' position, i.e. a member of the working group, the final proposal for a document was forwarded to all ministries which made their remarks and of course, and the remarks following a broad debate and among the NGOs were incorporated into the document that is before you. I have already said that here is in some way the specificity of this national policy that you are going to discuss today, unlike so far, that it also brings a thorough overview of the situation in Croatia today, when we talk about gender equality. I believe that you have studied all these data well, that they are the basis for and additional analysis, certainly the basis for discussion. I'd point out maybe a few. A few who are certainly worrying us, a few facts that we certainly need to change, that is, try to change the common forces. For example, the fact that about 59 to 60% of the unemployed in Croatia today are women. So the highest percentage among the unemployed is women. It's something that worries us, something that needs to be changed, something that's information that needs to be discussed continuously with new and new measures. I have already said that in this year's employment programme, the government has made a special emphasis on the employment of women, on encouraging entrepreneurs in the Ministry of Economy and of course, especially on the incentives of women who are victims of violence and women with disabilities who are most often very difficult to find jobs. I want to say that even in some programmes such as intergenerational solidarity, home assistance programme and living room for older people, we hire mostly women, mostly older women, namely, not older age, so someone doesn't get it wrong. So women over the age of 45 who, when they lost their job or didn't have a job, are very difficult or hardly able to find a job. What is also important to point out when it comes to women on the labour market is that women on average have 20% less salary than men for the same job. This, of course, is not only the specificity of Croatia, but it is something that needs to be changed and, of course, one should generally change the perception of the participation of women in social life and the participation of men in social life. I'll tell you one example that I think very well illustrates what I'm talking about. For some years, I was in a small town on the occasion of the day of the city, a participant, or witness to a marathon organized for women and organized for men. The winner of the men's marathon, of course, did not run all the way that the marathon must run, but the prize for the winner in the marathon for the man was 5 thousand kuna, and the prize for the winner in the marathon for women was 2 and a half thousand kuna. And on the request of the organizers why is that, because I think, if it's a marathon, if everyone, on the one hand, is running, men, on the other hand women, the reward should be the same. I didn't get an answer. The organizers were quite caught by my question because it was considered normal that, here, the winner in the women's marathon be, gets a reward that's half the size of it. So do everything and through documents, but in real life, I mean especially us who are in political life, that this perception changes. Here's another piece of information. Analysis of the 100 largest companies in Croatia shows that only 6% of women in these companies are in the leading positions, all other men are. As far as political life is concerned, that's where things move. Today in the Parliament, women are about 21%. However, I would also like to warn of the fact that it is happening, I will not say often, but that it happens that women are deputies to men in Parliament, and therefore, of course, the message is especially next year in parliamentary elections when political parties draw up lists can prove a genuine commitment to women's higher representation, so that women are on the lists, but high enough to be elected. Not that they only serve on lists as a decoration of a list or a decoration of democracy. We have 31% of women in the government. It's, I mean, a good result, but it certainly needs to make it even better. Of the two vice presidents, one woman, in the Five Vice Presidents' Parliament two are women, but the situation is much, much worse at local level. Out of the total number of mayors, there are only 11% of women. So, the data that speaks enough how the lists are drawn up locally in the elections for municipal, city, or county leadership. In the judiciary, the situation is better, much better, but it's also for an additional analysis. Let's say 65% of women are among municipal judges, 74% among offenders, 71% in the Administrative Court and 50% in the Supreme Court, so equal ratio of men and women. What I would like to highlight from the data is, for example, that you know that both parents can use maternity leave today, or parental leave. Research has shown that only 1%, not one miserable percent of men, so fathers use that leave. Madam MPs, you'll get a chance to talk and you'll say what you have, and now I'm asking you to tell me what this document is bringing. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs coming from here positive examples of two previous national policies, since '97. to 2000, from 2001 to 2005, but also identified shortcomings and difficulties in the implementation of individual programming tasks, this national policy contains an action programme based on the basic structure of particularly critical, i.e. priority areas. As priority areas, we have singled out: improving the protection and promotion of human rights of women, creating equal opportunities on the labour market, introducing gender-sensitive education and education, which means of course that we stay away from all possible stereotypes in terms of, in textbooks, of course, that women are shown in different ways as housewives, with all due respect for that job that actually holds three corners in the house, but we need to stay away from stereotypes in the sense that women are exclusively with an apron, for a stove, and that men of course are business people who come home tired of hard and hard work and read the newspaper in front of TV. So, from the earliest age, it's worth removing stereotypes. Then balance women and men's participation in decision-making processes, combating all forms of violence against women, improving women's health care systems and further natural empowerment of institutional mechanisms and the method of implementing equal opportunities policy. I have already said that this national policy also brings about a review of all international obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the field of gender equality, with particular emphasis on commitments in the accession process to the European Union. The provisions of national policies for the promotion of gender equality are therefore based on national legislation and other regulations and confirm the content and guarantees of gender equality which are part of international law. All these international documents, of course, are listed in this national policy. I also think it is necessary to point out that this national policy also contains a detailed overview of the state of equality of women and men and a defined legal basis for its adoption. The component is certainly a strategic framework for the implementation of gender equality policy and an action plan in which priority areas are identified, basic objectives, measures, deadlines, most importantly those of implementation. A total of 146 measures and 30 objectives, therefore measures which have been developed as I believe you have seen with clearly defined deadlines. Of course, this is most important, most importantly quite certain in the part relating to measures that must be implemented by, for example, the ministry, or the state administration, that these measures rely firmly on the budget, or on budgetary resources, which you will, of course, be very quick to discuss the 2007 budget and to monitor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. I would just briefly concentrate on one part of this national policy, on the part that speaks about the position of women on the labour market, on the need to reduce unemployment and remove all forms of discrimination against women on the labour market. This means, among other things, a much sharper, stronger and more consistent sanctioning of all those, such as employers, who further discriminate against women on the labour market in employment, especially young women, because only women are wondering if they are married, whether they have children, if they have children, whether they will have more children and thus, of course, are legally further humiliated and, of course, threatened on the labour market. It's something that absolutely can't happen. However, equal chances should be given both to women and men of course who want to work, to have a family, to have more children if they want to and of course if they can, but also to have a successful career and to have a job that of course wants to stay. Also, when it comes to the position of women in the labour market, it is impossible to achieve all this if employers are also the most perfect in the world if the state, but also local administration and self-government do not provide additional infrastructure that will accompany both the family and the woman and the man who want both family and business. Which means kindergarten, for example, because here's one big Zagreb with a huge budget I think it's unacceptable that it's always on waiting lists about five hundred, six thousand children. So, parents who have difficulty enrolling their children in kindergarten are certainly harder to realize their ambitions at work, and there's always a bigger burden then fell on their wife's back, because somehow it's logical, normal that she pulls more, that she runs away in the morning to take the kids out of kindergarten, to run if she doesn't have kindergartens for grandparents, or if she doesn't get sick, of course she's going to suffer from what, how, where she's going to, but of course, how she's going to justify the employer. It is unacceptable for pregnant women to be fired at a time when they are pregnant or at a time when they are on maternity leave. As far as the other measures are concerned, I would like to point out here in particular that we have foreseen the adoption of the Code of Employment of Women inside companies, the Programme for the Strengthening of Single Parents, the Strategy for the Development of Women's Entrepreneurship, so that's something to do. But I have already said that especially in the Ministry of Economy, we have given an emphasis both in this and last year on the employment of women but also on additional incentives for women who want to deal with entrepreneurship. Then, as regards employment here, it would highlight measures such as subsidising the employment of target groups of unemployed women under the National Employment Action Plan 2005-2008 and the Annual Employment Promotion Plans. After that, employers' education will be conducted on the benefits of employment with flexible working time. I must say that this particular measure of relying on our population policy, which you will also discuss very quickly, and that many segments, when it comes to employment, are intertwined precisely with the national population policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Women will be singled out as a separate target group in the operational plan to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and what I think is also important to consider measures to introduce tax reliefs for self-employed women and entrepreneurs. And of course we will systematically promote female entrepreneurship as we have done so far. As for the prevention of domestic violence, or violence against women, I have already said that we are considering further options for amending the Penal Code to tighten measures. However, I would like to remind you that significant measures have already been incorporated into the amendments and additions to the Penal Code that you discussed. We also propose to amend the CAP because we want to reduce further trauma to women who are victims of violence. And I've already said precision in the penal code of sexual acts that are equal to rape. Here, ladies and gentlemen, this would be brief on this project, that is, this National Policy Proposal to promote gender equality. I want to finally inform you that we, therefore, have already joined Croatia in a major Council of Europe campaign to combat violence against women. At the end of the year, I will also participate in a ministerial conference that will actually begin this big campaign. We have already presented our campaign proposal on 8 March, the International Women's Day, we have started with extensive preparations and in the following year, of course, the government will be almost daily clear, in cooperation with women's NGOs but also with all organisations that promote human rights to carry out the campaign and clearly invite all of you to participate in this, but I also call on units of local administrations, self-governments, cities, municipalities, counties to certainly get involved with their projects and their contribution. Thank you very much and I want it from my heart, as I believe most of you are constructive debate, without politicizing, because if I have nothing to politicize, then it's about a document that promotes gender equality, which I believe is the common goal of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72707	Thank you very much. Committee on Gender Equality, chairman of the committee, respected representative Gordana Sobol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72708	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, representatives of the government. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 39th session of the National Policy Proposal to promote gender equality as a parent body. The Committee also held written remarks by the Advocate General on gender equality on that act. The Committee did not accept the comments submitted. In an exhaustive opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that national policy to promote gender equality is a strategic document of the Republic of Croatia, which is adopted with the aim of eliminating discrimination against women and the establishment of real gender equality by implementing a policy of equal opportunities. It is also stressed that the adoption of a national policy to promote gender equality in 2006-2010 continues the tradition of previous national policies but now with an emphasis on the real possibilities of applying certain measures and activities. A significant indicator of women's unequal position continues to be reflected in women's half-life in the total number of unemployed persons under the representation of women at all levels of political decision-making, different forms of discrimination in employment and professional advancement and the frequency of domestic violence against women and, therefore, one of the most important objectives of this policy proposal to achieve full equality between men and women is precisely the opinion of the applicant to improve women's position on the labour market. Opinions, remarks and proposals were presented in the debate. The debate stressed that the proposal for this national policy is best so far because it has implemented previous national policies' experiences balanced in the regulation of objectives, measures and real economic opportunities for implementation. The debate also pointed out that the working group on the drafting of this proposal was also involved in NGOs dealing with gender equality, that the work on this important document took place in the partner environment of the Government and NGOs and that the observations and opinions of all participants were incorporated in this proposal, which, in the opinion of the Committee members, is a positive example of good cooperation. The debate has repeatedly repeated that the current system of promotion and protection of women's rights is insufficiently effective, although in the Republic of Croatia there are all institutional mechanisms for achieving full gender equality. It is necessary to increase the political participation of women at all levels of political decision-making and, in particular, at local level where the Committee considers the results of the latest local elections to be worrying. The debate has repeatedly repeated that women's discrimination is most viewed in the difficult position of women in the labour market, bribery, hard-to-coordination of family and professional life, political representation, as well as the domination of violence against women. The trail outlined an opinion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should stimulate female employment employers through more concrete measures. The opinion was expressed that in harmonising the working hours of kindergartens with their parents’ working hours, care should certainly be taken of the child’s well - being because there is a concern that irresponsible parents abuse such working time at the expense of the child. The opinion of part of the Committee is also unacceptable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia sets out multiple tasks to be carried out by the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Gender Equality and other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, which disagrees with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Part of the Committee members maintains that in the final provisions of this proposal, the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament once a year on the implementation of national policies to promote gender equality should be prescribed. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a national policy for the promotion of gender equality in 2006-2010, with a majority of votes 5 for 2 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72709	Thank you. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72710	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! And our Committee on the Youth and Sports Family Committee as a competent body, especially for the part relating to the field of equality of women on the labour market, also held a debate and this is the next report from this debate. In the opening statement of the proposing representatives, she pointed out that after the first national policy to promote equality adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 1997 and other national policies to promote gender equality in 2001-2005, this is the third national policy to promote gender equality which redefines national priorities and determines how to implement and take specific measures in line with social change. Three are the main indicators of women's inequality. It turns out that more than half of the unemployed are women 59%, and that's what's in relation to all previous periods, all previous periods are a key negative indicator of actually the situation. Then, the exposure to different discrimination between women in employment despite the legal provisions that have been passed over the past period that this is not happening, or the non-representation of women in political life. The proposal includes, of course, a plan with a list of measures, deadlines, holders of responsibilities and for the first time the management of budgets by sex is introduced and gives a significant place to the County Committees for Gender Equality, which intensifys the promotion of gender equality at local level. Following this opening argument, committee members and committee members supported the national policy to promote gender equality, noting that, if the measures and deadlines of the action plan are really respected for five years, significant shifts can be expected, the elimination of women's discrimination and the society where equal opportunities are implemented. Following an 8-vote debate, the Committee concluded that it was proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a national policy to promote gender equality in 2006-2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72711	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72712	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs! The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed a policy proposal to promote gender equality from 2006 to 2010. In the past, we have faced various social and political circumstances, transition processes and obligations by accepting the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women adopted in 79 years from the United Nations General Assembly which came into force in 1981 as a legally binding international contract. The Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and further obligations of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the objectives contained in the Millennium Declaration since 2000. The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination of Women is responsible for overseeing the application of the Convention at national level after the States report. In addition to the UN's international commitments, the Republic of Croatia has also accepted obligations as a member of the Council of Europe which promotes women's participation in politics, saying that participation in women's lives is a central political issue affecting the overall distribution of social roles between sexes. And finally, we have a alignment with the acquis of the European Community. The basis is to remove discrimination against women and to achieve equality between men and women in all areas, political, social, economic, cultural, civil and family. In 1997, a national policy was adopted to promote equality as the first. In 2001 to 2005, national policies to promote gender equality and follow this third as a sequence of events. In 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Law on Gender Equality, which sets out the general principles and basics for the protection and promotion of gender equality as the fundamental value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. It defines and regulates ways of protecting against discrimination based on sex and creating equal opportunities for women and men. The assessment of the state of the national policy shows institutional and legislative development based on the Law on Gender Equality. In 2003, she was appointed attorney for gender equality and 2004. Gender Equality Office. During 2004, co-ordinators and coordinators were appointed in all ministries and state bodies and public administration offices in 2004 at '05. The county commission. For institutional implementation 2005. The United Nations Committee gave a positive assessment. During the debate, members and members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club expressed dissatisfaction with law enforcement in order to eliminate discrimination and establish a policy of equal opportunities. In accordance with Article 15(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Gender Equality of the Political Party, which is entered in the register of political parties, adopts every four years a plan to act on the balanced representation of women and men and, in accordance with it, determine methods for promoting the balanced representation of women and men in the bodies of the party, on the lists of candidates for elections in the Croatian Parliament and in the bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government. Under the recommendation of the European Union and the Council of Europe, the representation of any woman in any body that decides on political and public life should not fall below 40%. Those provisions, as well as measures of positive action, giving political parties 10% more funding for sub-represented sex did not lead to expected results. A statistical review in the Republic of Croatia shows that there are 21% of women in the Croatian Parliament, of 14 ministers in the government are 4 women. The share of women among officials and senior state and public officials in the last 5 years has only increased from 20% to 26.5%. As members of the county assemblies, women represent 14.5%. Members of the Council, cities and municipalities 15.7%, and in municipalities 8.4% share women. The increase of these 1% can only talk about the political sub-representation of women. We have local elections behind us, and we have parliamentary elections ahead. Let us also mention the Constitutional Court's decision that there are no criteria for balanced representation. I hope they don't think so anymore. The lawyer for gender equality in the latest report warned of a small number of women elected at the local level in 2005. The total average of only 10.7%, according to the population census, is 51.87%. The function of mayors, mayors and commissioners is performed only by 28 women or 5% and 542 men or 95%. There were only 19% of women on the runlists, and only 6.8% were running for office. The equality therefore reflects true democracy in the decision-making process. Direct or direct discrimination is relatively easy to see in the diversity of rights, restrictions in rights, and indirect or indirect discrimination is much more difficult to see but is revealed through statistics and analysis indicators to be disclosed. The lack of analysis is in women with disabilities, rural conditions, rural women. The position of women members of national minorities. The strategic framework of this national gender equality policy is aimed at improving the human rights of women members of national minorities, women with disabilities, eliminating discrimination against Roma women. Women with disabilities had education in relation to domestic violence. However, the most pronounced discrimination against women is not the labour market. In the same workplace, men get 19.4% higher wages, and sexual discrimination grows with years of internships. In the total unemployed population, between 40 and 59 years of age, women account for 62% of the unemployed. But if you look at a world of 30, 300 leading companies, 9.3% of the members are on the boards of women. Employment competitions promote stereotypes of female and male professions. The question of a woman is, are you pregnant, will you matter, what do you intend? And so on. Recently, a mother's application, an example of three children, the wife of a Croatian military disabled from the Homeland War who had the same technical profession qualifications as her colleague, but in choosing an assessment of her ability she had to be physically strong because working on the ground requires considerable physical effort, and designing and making documentation requires previous construction work. It's in one explanation, and she was supposed to be working in a utility company. The main objective of this national policy is to eliminate all forms of domestic violence, while improving the protection of victims of domestic violence. In 2003, the Law on the Protection of Family Violence entered into force. Changes were made to police law, criminal law. There's been a regulation on the establishment of a shelter. The addressee of those who have been distributed through all institutions, a social assistance programme, and on September 22nd was declared the National Day against Family Violence. A national strategy for protection against domestic violence has been adopted for the period 2005-2007 and a protocol on the treatment of violence. National policy recognises the priority in the need to introduce gender-sensitive education in curricula and programmes. With the removal of sexual stereotypes and training of staff on gender equality. We often encounter discrimination at language level. It is common in titles for women to be called and signed titles as a doctor, a lawyer, not a doctor or a lawyer. When it comes to family, the Croatian Democratic Community, with full gender equality, gives a special place to motherhood, but in raising children, both parents have equal responsibility with the fair distribution of family roles. What gives particular hope in the realisation of this policy are action plans, precisely targets, holders, deadlines under the supervision of the Gender Equality Office. I have to say here on the way that I'm very sorry that yesterday on the Committee on Gender Equality, the debate of the attorney for gender equality was very destructive, negative, and I wonder how she'd be like... bring a report in which it will be objective? [[You don't understand what I'm saying.]] In particular, as regards national policy analysis. And finally, we adopted laws, we took a series of measures to achieve gender equality, we rely on the Office for Gender Equality, the County Commission, but statistical indicators talk about the presence of discrimination between women in many areas. In the European Union, there is a trend in the role of men in implementing measures in the field of gender equality. We'll see you in the next election. Gender equality is a political issue. The issue of fundamental human rights and the question of democracy. We believe that this national policy will give women equal chances of employment, end stereotypes of weaker management skills, but it will reach where the money is and where the power is. It is only possible by redistributing economic power and accessing money. Given the quality of this proposal, we believe that in the Croatian Parliament this national policy will be unanimously accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72713	Thank you. For the IDS Club, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72714	Dear Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected vice presidents and Mrs. Stimac-Radin, we at the IDS Club will support the national policy proposal to promote gender equality in 2006-2010, but we would also like to believe that this National Gender Equality Policy proposal will significantly improve the situation in our country. And that is why we will support, once again, this proposal. However, I would still like to warn about some problems both of the institutions and the state we now have because the fact is that from good intentions to real implementation is a long way to go. What do we have now? National policy on national policy, strategy strategy, declaration declaration, laws, regulations, instructions, rules, regulations, protocols, lots of paperwork and results and reality are quite another. Although all of this has been brought by the authorities, and institutions are the first to generate gender gaps, and they should be the first to receive and care for the improvement of society and the implementation of state policy. On some examples of life, I will try to illustrate what gender equality is in us and which institutions do not respect state policy. I'll focus on three examples of institutions. The first example is of police work. I've been approached by a lady in my constituency, and it's a police station in Opatija. There's a verdict on the restraining order of her ex-wife, but not caring about her ex-husband coming in and harassing her. A police station has been called in a dozen times, they are coming, they are being found guilty, but they say they are powerless and have not even recorded any calls, nor have they written a report that they were in the intervention. That's all we're saying is how much we respect the protocol sent to the police station. But they advise the lady that she should sue her ex-husband again. The second example that I am about to take is just a few lines, because Mrs. Caparin has already talked about it, and of course it is about the head of local self-government and certainly the head of the Udbin municipality is responsible for gender inequality in that segment. This must be the first case to explain the candidate, in this case the candidate, to answer that she was not elected director of a municipal company owned by the municipality. She was not satisfied on the basis of an assessment of the candidate's ability to work on the ground requiring considerable physical effort. So much for that, and 60% of women are still unemployed. As for perhaps a third example, he is the most drastic and it is about justice. What I'm about to do now is I've been instructed by women entrepreneurs from Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County because they were appalled at the verdicts also we can say about gender equality. A certain Tomo Sopjanac in the middle of the 9th month was sentenced to a year-long prison sentence, and a certain Ana Magash several months earlier was sentenced to 9.5 years in prison. Tomo Sopian didn't commit theft or burglary if you thought so, Anna Magash wasn't dealing drugs or trading to people. Anna Magash killed her own husband with a knife, and Tomo Sopian killed his own wife with his bare hands. Ana Magaš killed the alcoholic husband who strangled her, and in the case of the murder of her wife, the County Court in Zagreb in an explanation of the verdict stated that Sopjanec's wife was "very aggressive" and it was justified that her husband hit her six times in the head and twice more as she lay on the floor, likely to break out the last signs of aggression from her. The Parish court in Zadar, in its explanation of the verdict by Ana Magas, said it itself provoked its own strangulation. She danced at court a little earlier in the evening with another man and persistent efforts to enter her own home forced her husband to lean on the sink and instead of under quotes "yes" to the suffering of minor physical injuries says the judge, she imagine raising her hand to her husband. The trial of the Sopian found that he had no intention of killing a woman but was just a step away from himself. Ana Magash herself sought conflict, and the late husband logically reacted by calling her a whore, according to the Zadar County Court. As an easy environment, the fellow man has taken the fact that he has seven children, while Ani Magash is the fact that he has a child who has escaped in court who took it as a difficult circumstance by saying that she has interrupted her child's normal childhood. But we are not laughing and will not interfere in the independence of the Croatian judiciary. Yet they know how to enforce laws and protect citizens from violence, robbery, murder, rape, and similar acts. Unfortunately, there are those who tell us that taking out the eyes of living people is not as bad as it seems or, for example, it is. Those who say that it's an easy circumstance in the event of a girl being trampled are the fact that someone comes from a respectable family. We in the IDS think that the obligation of all the institutions that I have led through these examples to protect gender equality in the conduct of justice rather than to generate and deepen gender inequality. Until the moment sanctions are imposed for all those who do not respect the institution in which they work or those who do not implement the laws, there will be a difficult way to achieve any equality. As for the prosecutor for gender equality, remember that a few months ago I was one, perhaps the only one of those who criticized and was very critical of, here is Mrs Ruža Tomasic, also, according to the report she filed with the Croatian Parliament and in how she also humiliated her institution, because who will believe in an institution that is registered for a mobing, and she is expected to protect you from the same mobbing. But I hope this is one step forward, and we at the IDS Club will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72715	Thank you. HSP club, a respected representative of Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72716	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the assessment of the situation in this National Policy proposal, it says "from the adoption of a national policy to promote gender equality in 2001, fundamental institutional mechanisms and significant legislative changes have been established so far to address gender inequality and the promotion of gender equality policy, opportunities, the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality at the end of July 2003, and as the most important legal document aimed at eliminating sexual discrimination. Pre-conditions for more effective implementation of gender equality policy have been created. The same year were adopted by others so-called Anti-discrimination laws such as the Law on protection against domestic violence, the Law on Equal Communities, and in the area of criminal, family and labour law, new anti-discrimination provisions are also prescribed under the Law on Gender Equality, the Labour Act. The most important law contains provisions to prevent discrimination based on gender in the field of labour and employment." And now, instead of talking today about what laws have been broken, what sanctions have been taken, who did what, we're talking about what we're going to do again, how we're going to do and how we're going to do it. I think in 2010, when we discuss this, we'll discuss it again. We should meet, we should organize, that's what we'll do. Let's go, gentlemen, the laws are broken. Women are killed, women are out of work, who's being punished? And instead, I read in the paper how a man drives an expensive car or has an expensive yacht while women are sued for being out of work. So, gentlemen, have these people been sanctioned? In what way? As long as it doesn't happen, as long as it's not in this House at last once there's one law to hear and how many people are punished, how many punishments were that it doesn't happen again, we'll always discuss it the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72717	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72718	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry that my colleague has been discussing this national, indeed, excellent strategy like this. First, it's incorrect that nothing was done. You yourself know... that nothing was done, but you must speak with argument. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think I was clear and accurate in my debate. It's not true that nothing was done. Institutional mechanisms have been created, a legal basis has been created and based on the legal basis, the Law on Gender Equality is a basis for you, a legal basis for national policies for gender equality. Like in the world and the background and the convention and... the declaration and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] declarations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what it is, and nothing was done is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72719	A SDP club, a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72720	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am at the beginning on behalf of the SDP Club, since my colleague Caparin, on behalf of the HDZ Club, expressed her regret about yesterday's destruction at a committee meeting by the lawyer for gender equality, but then I am going to complete, yesterday's session on gender equality lasted a long time. And I can only express regret over, slightly speaking, the rude appearance in one part of my proposal, or the Prime Minister, the head of the Gender Equality Office. However, this may be something that the Government may consider, and the Bureau of Parliament may also consider how certain policies, laws, strategies, and defenses are proposed in front of committee meetings, or in front of MPs and representatives of this House. But on behalf of the SDP Club, therefore, I will at first say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of a new national gender equality policy. But of course, this does not mean that in superlatives, they will talk about this proposal or say that we have done everything we should have done so far. I believe that there will also be good proposals from the debate that may be able to find places in this national, national policy proposal, because as a SDP club, we do not think that this is a question and that, in the end of the line, perhaps even until the vote, some things can be completed. So before us is the proposal for a 3rd national policy to promote gender equality for the period 2006. - 2010. I think it's clear to everyone that this past 2006 because it's the beginning of October, it's actually impossible and it can't apply anymore. Because the final line in the final provisions of this national policy states that it will only be distributed to the measure holders after adoption in the Assembly within 3 months, and will be published in "The People's Journal". On behalf of the Club, I ask to write exactly what time the national policy will be published in the National Journal. In this National Policy proposal, and before it came to the debate, some say, part of them says this is a good document, part of it says it is a good document, but it is inconclusive. Some say he's bad, and perhaps just because they think he's in the good part, he's inconclusive. However, those who say it is bad think it should be accepted, that such a document is needed, and some say that this document is like water. It doesn't help, it doesn't help. It doesn't help. It doesn't help. In the SDP Club, we believe that the subject of this national policy is too important and that it deserves this document, or these measures proposed within this document, to be more concrete than they are in this proposal. This SDP policy is so important that we believe it should be entered into this document of the government's commitment, if not once a year, then at least once in 2 years to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of this national policy. As much as the document, the national policy itself will be enforceable, it will certainly be visible already in the debate on the budget that awaits us. In fact, as much as the government, or individual ministries, will be willing to support the proposed measures financially, it will be as possible to implement them as well. In the SDP Club, we remind ourselves that in its opinion for 2005 it was the human rights area that the European Commission assessed that non-discrimination policy and gender equality policy generally did not receive the necessary attention or were not concerned with the objective of resolving them. Croatia is a state that has more or less all known institutional mechanisms to implement an equality policy. The Parliamentary Committee, the Government's Office, the Ombudsman, the local commissions, the truth mostly at the county level of smaller parts of some cities and municipalities, the co-ordinators of gender equality across all ministries at the ministerial assistant level. We also have the Law on Gender Equality, but we also have all the other laws that in this country, three years after the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality, have not been in conformity with it, regardless of the explicit clear provision of the Law on Equality. And we have, among other things, the Constitutional Court, which says that, among other things, it does not know what the measure of balanced representation of both sexes is. The implementation of gender equality policy is, in fact, within the jurisdiction of the Gender Equality Office. In the opinion of the SDP club, the office is neither human nor financial nor by its status or power it has the power to respond to all the jobs that are set before it. I would ask you to take a look at the implementation of the budget for the first six months and regarding the Office for Gender Equality. If the problem is in the law that regulates it, it may be time after three years to see whether certain changes in the Law on Gender Equality need to be made, see in what sense it needs to be changed, and in order to strengthen the main institutional mechanisms that carry gender equality policy on their backs. Because having responsibility and jobs, not having real influence and power, is basically a rough job at both national and local level. When we talk about local levels, what I think this national policy is missing, which is a list of local committees. I think it would be interesting to see a list of all commissions on the ground, how many were established as permanent working bodies, how many were established as other working bodies of the commissions, i.e. advisory bodies, etc. As a SDP club, we strongly advocate that these local committees, committees, commissions or what we will call them, be the permanent working bodies of the county assembly, or councils of cities and municipalities. We think that this is the only way that they can have equal status in relation to other committees and commissions formed at local levels, of course in accordance with their statutes, or rules of procedure. I have to point out an absurd example here. I point it out everywhere, so I'll go here. At the level of the Primorje-Gorski County, we have established a Committee on Gender Equality. According to their statutes, the permanent working body of the Assembly is prescribed exactly how it is chosen, of which members and members. This committee was formed by members and members who were not elected to the assembly but were on the lists of parties. And as such, of course, he cannot share in the work of the congregation in the same way that other bodies can. In that sense, the SDP club supports the opinion of the lawyer, who we regret has not found a place in this policy. Otherwise, it is believed, in the end line already pointed out several times so far, that the main indicators of equality or the position of women in society are its position on the labour market, participation in decision-making at all levels and the problem of violence against women. When you look at all three areas regardless of all strategies, policies, protocols, laws, meetings of GSV, and I don't know what not, women in Croatia are discriminated against. One of the fundamental causes of women's unequal position is the discriminatory position of women in the labour market. With August this year's number, the share of women in the total number of unemployed exceeded 60%. It is 60.5% with 31 August, which is the data of the Croatian Employment Service, so we passed that number of 60%. This national policy on page 35 mentions the Economic and Social Council, which is said to have adopted additional guidelines towards improving the position of women in the labour market and reducing their unemployment. Do you know when that GSV session was held? The GSV session was held on 19 February 2004. Part of the measures proposed by this national policy document were also proposed in the conclusions of the Economic and Social Council of February 2004. We are now the beginning of October 2006. I can only conclude on behalf of the SDP club that this means that what was then agreed at that GSV session is not realised and perhaps we should talk about it at one of the next GSV meetings, regardless of what is said by Vice-President GSV, adopted the proposal for this national policy. This applies, for example, to the identification of the standard of discrimination in the employment of women or to the creation of a programme of economic empowerment of single parents, so what we persistently repeat from the document in the document, is the harmonisation of the work of institutions for the education and education of preschool children, and planning the opening of new preschool programmes and services, etc. I must say, I may have missed, but the public has never been informed of the execution of these conclusions of the Economic and Social Council, whether certain ministries, institutions, associations, organisations were obliged to submit this report to anyone. The position of a woman in the labour market depends greatly on how much this government and financially will be willing to support measures to improve the position of women in the labour market. On page 38, which is actually talking about something that should be a concrete measure and which should financially mean certain stimulations, it says - measure 233 - will consider introducing tax reliefs for self-employed women and women entrepreneurs, women employed in agricultural activities and crafts. Implementing period 2008. - 2010. On page 41, you also have again – the introduction of tax reliefs will be considered, the amendment of the Law on Profit Tax for the Organisation of Education and Education of Preschool Children, etc., the time limit of implementation in 2008. And I remind you again of that February 2004 GSV session where it was also said that tax relief would be established for companies and institutions where more than 50% of women were employed compared to the total number of employees. My colleagues and colleagues, until we have now, immediately and tomorrow, measures that will financially support the increase in the number of women in the labour market, measures that will, in particular, not in the way media self-ampassions on the development of consciousness work and improve the position of women when it comes to harmonising family and professional obligations, until then, we will talk year by year in an equal manner, equal figures on the position of women in the labour market. Secondly, one large area we want to warn on behalf of the SDP club is the area of violence against women. In the past few years, steps have been made in a legal sense, in the adoption of strategies in the adoption of protocols. But we must face yet a defeating fact. We did not reduce violence against women. However, to all strategies, regardless of the laws, regardless of the repressive measures, protocols, we did not reduce violence against women. This is also what the Home Office data show for the first 6 months of this year and what else we have failed to do in this area, which is changes in the judicial system. The reform of the judiciary, if it is not accelerated, will far lag behind what we are about to write in our protocols, and then there will be judgments like this that my colleague spoke of before me. It's just one of a series of cases. I believe someone's going to run an analysis someday. In the 2005 report, state lawyers clearly and unequivocally stately when it comes to violence against women that there is a major inequality in judicial proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72721	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72722	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't help but correct the inaccuracies of colleague Sobol around the step-up president of the gender equality office that she characterised as rude. The representative merely tried to persistently, consistently and reasonedly present the course and participation of all participants in the development of the national programme. And the fact that fellow Sobol as president of the Committee on Gender Equality did not allow the head of the office to present it is now a fact that we will discuss in our performances, today in front of this House. As a member of the board and a participant of that long debate last night, I must conclude that the head of the office is not the one who caused this debate to last so long and to be so scattered and I would say unconsistent and we will talk about it in the follow-up session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72723	And the second, respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72724	Well, I would only partially correct my colleague for saying that it wasn't true that domestic violence had not been reduced. In fact, we cannot speak of this exactly because it is about the insufficiency of statistics and on the other hand it is an increase in both public sensitisation and increased reporting of violence against women. It's hard to tell if it's increased or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72725	The HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72726	Thank you, Mr. President, for the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the lady head of the office, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the fact that I seem to be speaking for the first time, that the first man speaking on behalf of the club is actually a proof of gender equality, and I kind of feel this one paradox that actually women on behalf of these other clubs are taking that role to speak for their clubs, actually seems to me that they won't solve the problem of equality in Croatia more importantly, and I think if that's how it's understood then it's misunderstood. We at the HSLS Club believe that the Government's National Policy Proposal to promote gender equality since 2006-210 is an extremely important strategic document for the Republic of Croatia because it refers to the period in which Croatia actually wants to become a full member of the European Union. It therefore consists not only of implementing measures but is designed to guide us systematically and transparently through 3 parts and with an acceptable interpretation of the measures of fundamental concepts concerning gender equality and the whole document is written in our opinion extremely legible and transparent. The first part highlights the legal context in national legislation as well as the continuity of three national policies so far and internationally assumed obligations and expectations of the international community with three levels, the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the European Union. The central part is to assess the situation with realistic progress and the assessment of critical areas, including the evaluation of strong society and international institutions and the assessment of the outcome of the assessment of the dependent part in which the strategic plan for the implementation and action plan for 7 areas is proposed: women's human rights, equal opportunities on the labour market, gender sensitive education, equality in the decision-making process, violence against women, women and health and institutional mechanisms and implementation methods. We consider that the important news of this document is that the policy of promoting gender equality so far is seen and placed as a central perspective of gender equality that should be included in all policies, at all levels and degrees, and in other words, which sees the gender perspective as a structural stopper in making all policy decisions. In this regard, the HSLS Club points out congratulations to the work of the office headed by Ms Helena Štimac-Radin. We think she did a great job, and now we think some things should be mentioned here. This story, i.e. this awareness that the place of women and in public life is very important, in Croatia there is certainly more than 20 years and just a colleague of Helena Štimac-Radin was one of the pioneers of those who were still there in the 1980s involved in these attractive social movements where they have somehow contributed to the fact that today in Croatia we have a great library that really follows everything relevant that is happening there. But it is one thing to follow and translate relevant theoretical texts than now the other is completely wherever and where a bigger and more complex problem is how this theoretical awareness, the theoretical knowledge, how to implement our daily public life. It's not simple at all. I have no intention of doing this, I don't know, saying that we're actually inheriting social contracts that they wrote... , Russo, there in the 17th, 18th century, and that in fact these contracts were some way just the introduction to sexual discrimination and the absence of actually women from the public sphere and that as a woman there was more of what was said not to culture than to belong to nature. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it is a problem that this document is very much suggestive. When we talk about our electoral legislation, then actually, in my opinion, it doesn't matter how much data, how much of it there is in the government, how much there is in the Parliament, how much there is at the local and county level if we're actually constantly avoiding ourselves from the law to actually get to the point of view. I remember back there in '99. the years when we created one of our original models that at that time I proposed the same on behalf of the club that Scandinavian model and that it was actually a model that if we were talking about equality, I would really be the male female, female male, whatever you want. I can now say from my own political experience when, for example, that model was applied at a local level in my city that then we got a very good political election result. As soon as we missed that model last time in 2005 we were clearly punished by the electoral body because it recognised one value. So, as liberals, we have the right to speak and we always stress the importance of partnership and dialogue with the whole society and we listen closely to the critical voices that come from here and we in this document recognize how much has been used and this rich knowledge of the women's scene has been adopted and their demands to achieve... Gender equality in Croatian society is recognised as a political imperative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is what we really do with these, that today it is no longer possible to discuss the way in this Croatian Assembly tens and more years ago when those statements were actually falling that there are fewer stories and more births. I mean, and then that statement was condemned but today even the worst sexists will be very careful not to say that sentence. However, by carefully comparing the text proposed drafts with the proposed proposal, we note that some of the essential measures to achieve real equality are either omitted or accepted with reserves. I say this first refers to the government's unpreparedness to amend electoral legislation and to its alignment with the Law on Gender Equality. We think that this is something that needs to be done, if not in this year's election year, but then at least by 2010, it would be very good to do. After all, it is also a test of our future democracy and preparedness, as far as we are actually prepared to really involve a large part of the population in politics, not only to be a declarative pawn but also to bring as political will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this Parliament such a law which will just be prescribed and that there is really no need for us to talk about how problems are in the government or parliament, or the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and some other institutions relatively well solved and I do not know that we have problems with the local environment. So I'm saying actually about that bad statistic, and it's our own fault. I'm saying, that's why we have to also admit that let's say here's the Media Act the same way when the law is read a little bit, then it's just showing that there's still no gender sensitive policy in that law, and that's exactly how women are treated in the media, that it comes down to a mere object and a whole series of actually sexism that we face every day from public television and all that media. Those laws were passed by us, too, because at that moment, we seemed to be in between this balance that should be well aware of. In a way, we prefer just that to protect the media, but in a way... the possibility that citizens should also be protected from these media precisely because it is unacceptable for the media to dominate this insensitivity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our second replacement refers to the 256 measure in which the reserves are expressed, it will be discussed, in the adoption of tax reliefs by amending the Tax on Profits Act for the work of organisations that take over kindergarten care of their employees’ children or employees. Introducing such reliefs is only a real motivation and in the world we must say the stalking practice of harmonising professionals with family life. The replacement also refers to unnecessary caution to the proposed amendments to the Law on Protection against Family and Penal Code in 512 and to the Government’s complete rejection of measures on the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Momings. For these very reasons these days and HSLS and guides exactly what it means, once again, we would like to encourage that awareness that this is a really big problem and that we have to deal with this problem as soon as possible. When and when he comes back as a boomerang again and instead of doing it in 2006, or what we can do in 2006, I don't see any reason why he has to wait for 2008, 2010 or another year, or God forbid anyone else has to force us into such legal solutions. In conclusion, the government completely rejected the proposals for the adoption of the Law on Medical and Supported Insemination, which was proposed by HSLS as one of the measures. We should not even point out how advanced reproductive medicine has been in the past ten years since this area was regulated. By law on health measures for the free birth of children, which was adopted in 1978 and today, without new legislation, is located in a gray legal and economic zone. There is a more surprising view of the government because for two years as far as we know, there has been a draft of such a law in the drawer that it has received and the support of the profession and the public that this bill is very liberal and modern. But maybe it's because for some of these texts he's too liberal today he's still not going into the process and as far as we know he's not scheduled until 2010. But while some deal with infertile polemics on the subject, so many infertile couples from Croatia are leaving for help in Slovenia where the law was passed in 2000. You see, in fact, how life from reality is related and people are about to find ways to come up with certain solutions and there's really no reason why this House can't pass one such law. And we just think that despite certain substitutings, we believe that the new national policy proposal to promote gender equality contains far more adopted,... necessary and enforceable measures that could be widely and commendable because they improve the degree of democracy in Croatia and reduce gender discrimination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I say, the HSLS Club will support this government proposal when adopted. And we also need to speak very openly about our condition of the spirit, our consciousness. This particular one, what is our bureaucracy that certainly isn't feminized but just rule, is dominant exactly one... The style and norms of behaviour that are almost normal for even the mayors of some large Croatian towns of women's clothes and their behaviour to be unacceptable so that it is prescribed that they should be dressed and that, in fact, these same people when you look at their style of dress, you would certainly have the right to place a thousand and one observations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just saying that's why we need to keep working, still working on this, this awareness policy and what theory has adopted in some way long ago. At our universities, "Feminist Criticism" has full legitimacy. Women's studies are something that's completely normal. I see no reason that both the Croatian Parliament and this assembly of parliament do not actually follow these positive trends, and that in some way we are creating this positive environment in our society so that this thing that is actually predicated in itself, and that every incidental expressive behavior would actually be sanctioned in advance, and that what is sometimes known in our Parliament, unfortunately, that sexism was either open or hidden in some way, would be promoted and eliminated from public political life. So once again great praise for this document with a lot of words, even these substitutes, but I think that's exactly why there is both this debate and the plenary this session to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72727	Thank you. For the club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72728	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since the first adoption of the National Policy to promote gender equality, it has been 5 years. Today, 5 years later, we can conclude that a system of institutional mechanisms for the implementation of gender equality policy is being rounded up at national level. However, no different forms of discrimination have been removed and no equal opportunities for both sexes have been established. Despite the fact that women account for more than half of the total population of women, they do not participate in a balanced balance in political decision-making processes, nor are they equally able to participate in many other areas of social life due to the various forms of social, political and economic obstacles they face. Discrimination indicators are contained in data that more than 60% are unemployed women. That they were discriminated against in employment and professional advancement. That they are under-represented in the process of making political decisions. That they're mostly victims of domestic violence. Women are paid most often. In certain activities, they make up the majority. These are primarily textile industries, catering and commercial services, education, public administration, social activities, social and personal service activities. They form the majority of those activities but in the management structure of these activities they are a minority. For example, 60 percent of women are employed in the protest, and only 30% of school principals and institutions are women. Really illogical and inexplicable, but these are facts. It is a very interesting fact that of the total graduates of the colleges, women are participating with 60%. So they're capable and responsible for their own professional training, but when they're looking for a job, that's when the story turns. Women are the employer's unwanted labour force. They say, "Are they married?" Do they think they're having kids? Do they have children? What are they and what age are they? And after that, they shall not be informed of the outcomes of the selection or be informed that they have not been selected. Although both the Labour Act and the Law on Gender Equality protect them, they are mostly unemployed. Employers simply do not want pregnant women and mothers with children, but they do not want women over 45 years of age and are therefore exposed to treatment that temporarily or permanently excludes them from the world of work. As advocates, we too received letters and requests from young women who were regularly accepted for a certain time, and in the event of pregnancy at the end of a certain period of time they were admitted, namely, their working relationship or not an extended contract became unnecessary for employers. These young women were unable to help us because such an opportunity gives the employer the law. Although we are aware that such behaviour by employers is completely contrary to the state's most intelligent policy, nothing seems to protect women in the workplace. Even more. In public, announcements are being made that the payment of maternity leave is being transferred to the employer's burden. Such reckless announcements only contribute to further discrimination against women. From this aspect you cannot sing praises to the introduction of a three-year maternity leave is a small number of mothers who will have the courage to use this right because she is aware that at that time she is completely insecure not only her job but also her employment at all. In addition to the fact that the employer's wife is an unfavourable workforce, part of the woman cannot even ask for employment because she has no accommodation capacity in kindergartens and nurserys. And the cost of babysitting is too high in terms of their salary. In such conditions, there is neither growth in gender nor gender equality but employment. A particular problem is the inadmissibility of employers of women over 45 years of age. This part of the population can only be introduced into the world of work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which encouraged their employment. The 2002 Employment Encouragement Programme has led to positive developments so that they employ 37,000 950 women. Of course they're not oversatisfactory results. They are modest, but also those programmes with modest, yet positive shifts have been stopped by the government when it adopted a decision in August 2005 to suspend the implementation of the 2002 Employment Encouragement Programme. The introduction of targeted single mothers programmes that are at greater risk not only of unemployment but also of social exclusion and the subsidisation of women older than 45 and over who have lost their jobs during the transition processes as a technological surplus would significantly mitigate the integrity of this risk group and contribute to reducing women's discrimination. This general state in this segment has also been established in the National Policy Proposal to promote gender equality. It is said: "The employment of women remains the key to their economic autonomy and greater equality between women and men in the whole society." It is also said: The reduction of women's unemployment with their economic empowerment and the removal of all other forms of discrimination on the labour market is an integral part of the programme of national policy implementation and one of the most important tasks in achieving the actual equality of men and women. This is commendable, but this optimism lasts until the next page that tells us what will be done to achieve the goal and says: National legislation will be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union. We'd say harmonize the laws, but harmonize the practice. There are too many laws in this country that are completely contrary to existing practice. It's common for us to run laws on one track and practice on another. In order to reduce unemployment and remove all forms of discrimination against women in the labour market, empirical research will be carried out, the national classification of occupations will be coordinated in a way that all professions will be shown to the female and male version of the profession name, systematic collection of statistics, education of employers in the benefits of employment with flexible working hours, courses, seminars and programmes of education for girls and women will be organised and will be trained, imagine for selecting and obtaining adequate employment. Whether words should be spent on these measures. It is absolutely certain that these measures will not lead to greater employment of women. Women can look for jobs themselves, but they won't take them. So they're looking for a job but the employer won't take them. They know how to pick a job if they were even in a position to choose. They just can't choose. And to them is what belongs to them disfellowshipped. Can we imagine the fruitful education of employers about the flexibility of working time? The promoter says: A programme for the economic empowerment of single mothers will be developed. This is just another promise, and citizens have very bad experiences about realising their promises. So we're being offered something foggy, and what had positive effects is that the government abolished in 2005. It is said that women will be educated on the right to press charges. Even so, the women know, but few of them will dare to press charges, for after that, revenge follows the employer and the woman is unprotected. And once the measures have been proposed, there is only one question left, which is what effective measures you intend to protect the equality of women on the labour market. It is evident that the government has no answer to that question. So this national policy proposal is being seen, it is recognised that there is discrimination against women in relation to men. What is not visible, and in life there is, is discrimination between women themselves depending on the status they have in society. Not long ago, this summer in July, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club sent a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity leave to mothers who carry out the activity and the unemployed mothers. The aim of this law was to equalise women's rights with rights based on adoption of rights to extended maternity leave. But the parliamentary majority did not accept the equalisation of the rights of all mothers, did not accept at the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is now offering us this national strategy. So there is no political will to completely remove existing discrimination, and we have asked very little. We asked that the craftswoman also have the right to adopt on maternity leave. We asked that the craftswoman also have the right to an extended maternity leave, that she too has the same rights to care for her child with severe developmental disturbances. The social status of women in the country is a complete stranger to this society. The situation has yet to be explored, according to the Proposer, and their right only comes down to the obligation of self-secret work on the family economy. In addition to the obstacles stemming from being a woman, obstacles are joined from the fact that she is from the village and the employer does not want to pay the cost of coming and going to work. For this category of women, no measures are envisaged by the proponent of this national policy. It's a comfort to them that they'll only be subject to research. All in all, it is evident that this national policy guarantees nothing. It is evident that the current government has expressed its position in the negative opinion of this bill, which was the sole aim of eliminating discrimination between women craftsmen, women from villages and other parts, and these are the reasons why the Croatian Peasant Party cannot accept this national policy proposal because it considers it merely a declaration of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72729	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72730	Mr. President, the esteemed representative, among other things, said incorrectly of course, offered us something hazy, and the government abolished concrete things in 2005. On the contrary, this government has done everything in its power to correct injustices and to raise standards that have been abolished in the period 2000 to 2003, and in the area of motherhood and family and maternity leave that have already been applied with all positive results.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72731	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72732	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague's representative, that there is no in the Croatian government, the parliamentary majority of the political will for women of mothers and that they are treated justly. Col. Tomljanović corrected the part, and in the second part there are necessary changes related to the laws with three income classes, a censorship for the budget base and a promising supplement to the third child, which we know that with the children's supplement, the Croatian Government will additionally 500 kuna more, which is completely incorrect for colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72733	Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72734	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that I must react on behalf of the Government after the allegations made on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party by Ms. Lalic. There's a series of inaccuracies here, so for further discussion, of course, I have to point it out for the public. I'll put it in order the way I recorded it, the most important thing. First of all, Mrs. Lalić spoke about the praises for three-year maternity leave. I must say on behalf of the Government that no one in the government is speaking praises or in the parliamentary majority about three-year maternity leave, but the fact, Mrs. Lalic, that the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave for twins, three or more children, was abolished at a time when your party was participating in the government, and while your parliamentary majority raised its hands to end this three-year maternity leave. I want to remind you that then, with this decision of about 60 thousand women, we are talking about gender equality, it was forced within 60 days, that is the deadline that you gave them then, to get back to work, to find the opportunity to take care of their children. Because they're mothers who had more children at the time. Therefore, we do not praise the three-year maternity leave, we just returned that possibility of paying three-year leave for twins mothers, three and more children, for those women, or those families who want it. Those who don't want to, of course, won't and don't have to use it. You also participated in the government when it was reduced and that drastic birth benefits for all births in Croatia. And of course, that injustice, that's the position of our party and the position of this government, has already been corrected in 2004 when we increased maternity benefits. However, I remind you of the statements that were then coming from the government in which you were participating, that is, your party, where, for example, the Vice-President of the Government then said, when a return to maternity benefits was requested, he said, I quote, in a daily paper, that he was surprised that the women of the young who had given birth and who, behold, were at home, were not doing anything and were expecting the state to pay them for it. I don't remember you reacting to that actually sexist statement back then. In fact, let's remember when she collected electricity in those times and when the possibility of using cheaper electricity was introduced for 10 hours, so we asked that those decisions change. There were also reactions from the then government with a message, quote: "Let women iron after 22 hours". So much for gender equality. You have also found that there is no increase, despite all that there is no increase in birth rate. I'll take the numbers out. In 2003, 39,000 children were born in Croatia, 2005. 43,000 children. Here, MP Bajt mentioned the measures of the innovative policy that you will also discuss very quickly in the Assembly, where we are proposing from 1 January next year changes in the system of extras for children where we will expand the number of users by about 50 thousand. Also, the optimal supplement for each 3rd and 4th child with a regular allowance, plus 500 kuna of the most intelligent supplement. I'd also like to, so it's clear that there's an increase in birth rate. That's clear and obvious. Of course, there is also the influence of these measures taken by the government in 2004. Among other things, we have introduced a program of free family textbooks with 8 and more children. We are now extending this programme from next year to all primary school students and high school students covered by compulsory education and, of course, we are providing free transport. As far as employment is concerned, you said there was no measure here. I remind you that 26, I will read them from the National Policy to promote gender equality from 2001 and 2005. I'll read what it says about employment. "The Croatian Employment Service in the conduct of regular activities related to professional orientation will pay particular attention to the advice of girls and women on the correct choice of calling and employment opportunities. And two, the Ministry of Labour and Social Care in the preparation of the National Employment Policy will propose special measures for the employment of women in the more employable categories of unemployed persons, especially younger women who first seek employment, women with disabilities and women over 40 years of age." That's it. No deadlines, no measures anywhere, nowhere in fact a clear commitment to reducing women's unemployment. So, no goals, no priorities. As for maternity leave and your requirements mentioned in the Croatian Parliament, I would like to remind you that your government, in which your party has also participated, therefore, the then Government has also rejected the legal proposal on the status of the parent mother and reduced the maternity benefits and abolished the three-year maternity leave that we have returned. Therefore, I would like to conclude that this is not at all about the government's declarative definition, but rather about the very concrete measures that we have presented to you, here, and in this document. As far as the matter is concerned, the MP rightly mentioned the Health Insurance Act. You said there was an announcement that a pregnant woman's illness would go to the employer's burden. That's right. It's a provision that, I don't know how, just passed the Health Insurance Act, and that's where the law was discussed, and as far as I know, no one specifically pointed out. We have seen that this is absolutely illogical and in my court inadmissible. The government just last week accepted changes and supplements by emergency procedure, they will be found in the Parliament and here, you will probably change this illogicality, support the change so that it will continue to be all the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72735	Thank you. At 11 o'clock and 5 minutes, the time has elapsed for individual debates on this agenda point. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72736	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the vice president that I've claimed there's no increase in birthrights. That's simply not true because I said "without the protection of mothers at work there will be no increase in birth." But it's certainly true, Madam Vice President, and the inconclusive fact that you just signed the government's opinion which discriminates against mothers craftsmen and unemployed mothers. Unlike us and my party, which in 2001, in these rights, we have equalized for the first time in the history of Croatia's newer history and the unemployed mother. And as for the Law on the status of the raiser's mother, so you signed twice, not once, but twice signed a negative opinion requesting that the law be rejected. And if there were a number of praises in order, well, yes, you assure us, but listen to women, what women think about it, and you'll have a completely different opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72737	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72738	Which is to correct in this little confusing statement that the minister has now presented, confusing so much that what the minister has now said is completely different from what she was saying in the light of the policy's proposal. So this is all the opposite. The whole philosophy and concept of what is offered in the national programme is contrary to what you've just said. It's all the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72739	A colleague of Vidovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72740	It's all incorrect. Now it's an incorrect assumption that pulling women out of the world of work, that's a general inaccuracy, to increase the most intelligent policy. That's just the other way around. In the world of work, gender equality and improvement for family and children alone can be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72741	But that wasn't said. That's not what the vice president said about the claim you're denying. It's a debate. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72742	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is incorrect that the Deputy Prime Minister said that the former government did not create any female employment programmes. I'll remind her that there was an extraordinary self-employment program for women where there was, who was backed up with interest credits of only 2%. The program has produced very good results, spent two years, but unfortunately it has been abolished. I think women shouldn't just be teaching how to look for jobs but to need them, that they should be allowed to create jobs on their own. This is how we actually do discrimination against women if we think they should just take the job, not create it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72743	The club of representatives of the CNS, the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72744	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my colleague Kramaric for calling me a specialist. I don't know if I'm a specialist, but in the Committee on Gender Equality, the president can confirm that I'm quite active and that I'm almost at every session unless I happen to be in the hospital, and that's the vice president, here's the air-conditioned head, that's right. I am always active, and I always want to contribute to what we have brought, and we have brought a lot of things, and if in reality it were implemented by law, the parliamentary committee, the government's office, the attorney general, we have brought all of this to gender equality, and if it all worked out then probably this strategy would be much smaller, much shorter, and would not contain 146 measures and 30 goals as the Vice-President said, Vice-President of the Government. All of this is covered by some seven chapters, of human rights, labour markets, gender-sensitive education, domestic violence, violence against women, women and health, equality in decision-making and institutional mechanisms. If everything we adopted in the country, in any case, that national policy could be less and cover far less. However, since, like everything else in this society, this national policy, in fact, as most of the other national policies we have brought here, is about making statistics, plans, programmes, research and, among other things, in this national policy, we define again by not knowing which way the law should be implemented. And when a man reads all this, and sees what is offered, then I declare what I said yesterday on the board, that it is like water; nor does it help, nor does it help. Why? We all know where the basic problem is in gender equality, which is that the financial independence of women in us is not achieved. It is not achieved for the simple reason that women are far more difficult to work, there are no jobs for them, and that I do not list everything further that awaits them, and that is why violence in the family and most of these things are listed here in these chapters. How do you stop it? National policy. But not with this kind of national policy where there is no telling how deep the government will reach into the pocket or in the bag and how much money it will invest to make it easier for women to get a job, so that women can exercise their rights more easily, by law, the prescribed rights, it doesn't say anywhere. Not to mention the state of our country. All these stories that we have here will be very difficult to reach our village. Our villages are old age, our villages are full of single men or single women, our villages are extinct, extinct for the simple reason that people in those areas have no perspective. There is a lot of alcohol, and alcohol produces violence and, in any case, if the issue of employment is not resolved, the question of young people's perspective, even the old ones in the country, there can be no gender equality. Not as long as women don't have financial independence. This is the basis that women could even fight in politics, because we are talking here, we say the Constitutional Court doesn't know what balance is, is it 60:40, is it 50:50, we say that they don't know it and normally that women, you all know it, are all in one of the political parties except these independents, how many women you have represented in their parties, it's those who have 25 or 30%, it can be called pre-representation. And why is that? Because women simply can't get involved because they're not financially independent, because husbands don't let them go, because they're just afraid to leave, and in order to do that, I know that many are laughing, and that they may have to be financially independent. And now I'm going to say one tragic thing. We all know, gentlemen, that many women, because of their political or other careers, have, either because of their jobs, had to say best to give up their body. It's not in the police reports either, it's not with the State's Attorney's office, it's not in welfare centers, and in reality, there are gentlemen. There's no such thing in this national strategy either. And whenever someone is cut off for some rights, then it's a possibility to manipulate them. And it's not about whether or not the attorney's office is going to write. No, gentlemen. It won't, it's a problem, but it won't solve the issue of gender equality. Surely they will not, for that thing, especially in the country, is not interested in how they will write, but they are interested in how and what they will live on and on what they will feed their children and what they train their children from. I also have some concrete remarks on this. It is, I would pray that, in any case, the word should be eliminated from this, because it is not a Croatian word and in national policy, I think we should throw it out because we have a Croatian word that can replace it and I am also not quite sure that this national policy can work because here we have defined that the implementation of this national policy is implemented by the Gender Equality Office. And then we also said that this Gender Equality Office reports every two years to the government. And most of the things that need to be done in this national programme should be done either by the government or by one of the government or by one of the ministries or by one of the offices or even by that Office for Gender Equality. They will report to themselves. Isn't it logical and isn't it normal for us to get a report on how national policy is being implemented? I tried it yesterday on the Committee on Gender Equality to reach such a conclusion, and to impose an obligation on the Office for Gender Equality, if not him, then that the Government of the Republic of Croatia at least once every two years, as defined here, informs the Parliament where we are and how we implement national policy. Normally, if that hadn't gone away, now I should be writing amendments to this, I won't, because I know it won't go away, but here I am asking the vice president to make such a change, because if I write the amendment, it sure as hell won't go away, I'd ask the vice president to put something like that here, not because of me personally, but because of the real interest that something in this field of gender equality is made. The HNS Club will not vote for this strategy because I repeat in this strategy, it does not say in which way women's financial independence will be ensured, which is a prerequisite for gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72745	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72746	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry that a colleague so casually says that this national program that somehow it's water that doesn't help and neither does it. Holy water, but I don't know if it's sacred for him, but first of all, water... [[Intruder: Holy water.]] He didn't say the world. He said the water. It'll be fresh water. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Buddy, I'm denying you. And the Committee of the United Nations, the Committee for the Elimination of Gender Equality, which in 2005 declared itself quite positive for the institutional implementations made in Croatia, the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, it helps all human rights for women. Do you expect us women to keep quiet and do nothing? I think that would be most ideal for you but still if nothing as a doctor can... to say how much this programme has done only in terms of women's health and the implementation of a national breast cancer prevention programme where breast cancer is now detected long before, if early detection is carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And 30% of women will die less than they've ever been before. And not to tell you that 800 women die annually of breast cancer. Didn't you find that in this national strategy and a series of other examples?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72747	Thank you. And respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72748	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a series of incorrect allegations, starting with water, so I don't know to the village, I'll go with the village. Big fellow young men don't have a perspective in the country so don't get married, no kids, amazing. It is arranged in Europe especially in Germany, premarital contracts are concluded, premarital contracts are signed that they will not have children. So, where there's a little more abundance. Finally, we know that families have the most children who do not swim in abundance. Then he says husbands don't let women into politics. Well, I don't know, I guess because of jealousy, which is why they don't let go, which is absolutely incorrect because how they let them go during communism are hundreds of thousands of women in Germany and elsewhere to work. They were neither jealous nor anything else. And according to that, that's incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72749	PGS Club, SBH and MDS, Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72750	Says the old boys and the skinny goats, the Italians for the cans, they're driving. Your Honor, Mr. President, the lady head of the office. Please allow me, on behalf of the Club of the Međimurje Democratic Union, the Primorje-Gorskian Alliance and the Slavon-Baranja Croatian Party, to state our position on the National Policy Proposal for the Promotion of Gender Equality for 2006-2010. Our club will not support this document for the same reasons as the previous clubs that have such an attitude. So it is also our general view that there are too few concrete measures to address, especially the most pressing problems that arise in this problem. And especially what we would like to warn about, therefore, problems that arise in the head that talk about equal opportunities on the labour market, and therefore this material itself points out that the employment of women is, that it remains the key to their economic autonomy and greater equality between women and men in the whole society. Unfortunately, the proposed measures, and I say given the majority and size of the problem, we think nothing will start in a positive direction. So it has already been said here that one of the bigger problems that bothers women is precisely unemployment, so we heard that female unemployment is somewhere near 60% or, specifically, in 2005, of the 308 unemployed, there were 180,000 796 women, in 2004, of the 309 thousand 875 unemployed, there were 180, 847 women. What is particularly worrying about, according to this data from the Croatian Employment Service, is that we are dropping the number of unemployed. So, according to these data in 2004, there were 309,000 unemployed, 2005. 308,000 unemployed, but the reverse trend is in the number of unemployed women. And what does that mean exactly? That in 2004, there were 180 thousand 847 unemployed women and in 2005 there were 847 unemployed women. 180 thousand 796 unemployed women. So the difference is not big, but the difference warns us and points to the trend in the growth of the number of unemployed women, and we would all like it to be exactly the opposite, if that percentage of 60% of unemployed women were to decrease. And that tells us, therefore, that we must take more radical measures to reverse the situation. The situation is even more worrying if we analyze the structure of unemployed women. I have here information from the Ministry of Employment of Međimurje County that I have data on 30.6.2005 and data is really worrying, they suggest that a large number of women, given their status as school or number of years, can be very difficult to hire. The data warns us so, I say these are data for the County of Međimurje but they could also be transferred to all of Croatia, that for example from a thousand 472 unemployed who do not have the qualifications of 700 women. Of those who have a half-qualification of a thousand, 461 is a thousand and 16. So it's a big number. Those who have a KV or VKV of 2 thousand 502 thousand 415 are women. So we see, given the qualification structure which is the lowest that women have a large majority in that qualification structure. They also warn about jobless workers. So, for example, those who are unemployed and have between 20 and 30 years of work experience of 254 and 854 are women. They are concerned about data about the unemployed by age that tells us that, for example, at the age of 45 to 49, 929 627 of them are women and of those aged 50 to 54 of them 901 544 are women. So, what does that tell us? That those unemployed women will find it very difficult to find a job and that, unfortunately, the number of unemployed women will not be reduced unless the government takes much stronger measures, targeted measures on these very groups of women. So, the position of unemployed women is difficult. But what we would also like to warn is the difficult position and the employment of women. So the fact is, we know that women on average get a lot less pay than men and one of the reasons is that a large number of women are employed in certain branches of our industry, which is mostly what I mean by textiles, leather, wood and other branches of industry. So the data tells us that 38 000 workers were employed in Croatia in the textile industry in 2005, of which 80% of the workers were employed in six counties of north-west Croatia. These are extremely export branches that 90 % of the capacity is employed in export operations, and that's mostly in the up-to-date business. Workers' salaries on these jobs are 50% of the average salary in the country and 80% of all employees are women. For example, in Međimurje County, 5 thousand 150 employees were employed in the textile and footwear industry in 2005, compared to the total number of employees, which is 22 thousand. So more. The average net wage in the textile industry was 2 thousand 437 kuna and to the shoe industry a thousand 963 kuna. Textiles and cobblers, trade unions, economic, social councils have long warned about this problem, the possibility that this industry in Croatia will simply die, which will happen. 40, 50 thousand people will be unemployed at work and 80% of them will be women. Will that fix the picture we have today? No, I'm sure he won't. I asked that question several times, updated in the Parliament, received parliamentary questions, etc. Here is a letter from Branko Vukelic, which answers the parliamentary question, which lists planned activities and activities to improve the situation and promote development in the textile and leather processing industry in Croatia, noting that a public tender for the allocation of funds to promote development and improve the situation in the textile and consumer-processing industry of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 is being opened. So this government managed to separate 20 million kunas this year to improve the situation in our textile and leather industry, the industry that employs 40,000 people. The industry that exports 90%, the industry that therefore has its perspective in me if the state were to take a serious interest in it, while we are witnessing that others, some other branches of industry, have no aid of 20 million kuna, but help to them is measured in billions of kuna, and they employ many, many fewer workers. The measures proposed in this programme are therefore too weak. I'm not saying anything and it won't contribute to the current situation in this section. Surely it won't contribute to the potential risk of a large number of workers in these industries losing their jobs. I've told you before that this topic has long been moving through at least local levels. Yes, textiles themselves suggest certain measures. So they're talking about that, without the country's strategic decisions, it's hard to save the textile industry. So, yeah, just to quote about what they're suggesting? Textiles and cobblers suggest the resolution of the textile and footwear industries from the state budget, modelling a solution from Belgium and Slovenia. They seek recognition of the exporters of stimulation at the level of annual inflation, and at the level of invoiceing and realization. Then a selective approach by the legislator in determining the lowest basis for calculating pension, health insurance and sick leave. In these activities in... 80% of employees are women who are often sick due to diseases of children, parents or their own illnesses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the task force is looking for the first seven days of sickness on the burden of the state. They are also seeking the return of the legal provision according to which HZZO carries the costs of sick leave for more than 30 days. The salaries in these activities are 50% of the average salary in the country. For these reasons, the group of textiles and footwear proposes that taxes and contributions on salary of 17.2% be made to companies to increase the net wage of employees in order to improve the material position of workers and keep companies competitive at the existing level. The last request refers to excessive imports of low-quality textile, footwear products in Croatia. Here's our club, so it won't support this proposed document. Only if any of these measures are incorporated into this document would they be able to support it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72751	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72752	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry my colleague doesn't see that there are concrete measures in this document. Here's an example of violence against women. Is it not a concrete measure to draw up a protocol on the conduct in the case of domestic violence that binds all state bodies? From the police, the welfare center, educational institutions, judicial bodies. Isn't it a concrete measure to make a regulation on the establishment of a shelter and a address book which has been distributed to all institutions? Isn't it a concrete measure for women between 50 and 69 to get a call now that they have to come to check breast cancer prevention. And a series of such measures that this document has.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72753	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to individual, but before that, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to say a few more words and perhaps explain some of the things that have been presented here so far in the debate. I'll start with the latest presentation of Mr. Honorable Representative Pavlic who says they won't vote, his club for this document proposal because as you say, nothing will change. I think things are going to change the way they've changed since the first document, after the second document. And I don't think it would be a good idea for us to look at documents that suggest concrete measures with full pessimism. Which have goals, which have deadlines because then we simply shouldn't do anything. Because here I will remind, for example, the document of the previous strategy, which is the same as the policy where, for example, as one of the measures, it is directed to protect women and women and to protect the environment, so the instructions that women should be given equal rights to the clean environment. And that women are informed of the dangers of environmental disasters. So it's something that's not generally but absolutely general because of the question, of course, what's with the clean environment for men. So I think, of course, every document could be viewed on two sides, with two aspects. It's extremely negative and, of course, optimistic. Moderately optimistic, but with the intention of moving things and of changing things. I'll remind you once more of what we've done so far. I'm talking about the mandate of this government. Of course, the mandate of the last government since the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality in the last term, the fight against violence. What we did was, of course, it was an obligation to the law back in 2003, but we realized it. We started the Gender Equality Office. We've come up with a National Strategy. We've also brought this protocol here, which has been mentioned quite a bit. We have done much to promote and assist female NGOs dealing with the protection of women's rights and the fight against violence, and absolutely certain that all these programmes must bring results clearly provided that the documents are implemented, that the laws are respected. Mr. Kapraljevic raised his doubts. I think it has been before in the debate, the doubt and what is stated in the final provisions that the Gender Equality Office will oversee the implementation of national policies to promote gender equality. Mr. Kapraljevic asked that this change be made, that there is control in this case of the Parliament, if I understand correctly. However, we would firstly have to change the Law on Gender Equality because I recall that the Law on Gender Equality, which was passed in the previous assembly of the Parliament, at the time of the last Government, was just in Article 18 that the Office for Gender Equality oversees the implementation of the National Policy. Therefore, it is worth reading the documents of course and knowing what is who, where, and when prescribed. What I'm saying is, distinguished MPs and MPs, once again, that in this document, the next, therefore, improvement of the protection and promotion of women's human rights has been singled out as priority areas. I think there's been a little talk and debate about it so far. The creation, of course, of equal opportunities on the labour market for women. I'm glad that we all agreed mostly that it's unacceptable for women to be further discriminated on the labour market, that it's unacceptable for only women to ask questions about whether they're married, if they have children? So that's the most common question of all questions. Do you have a baby and you want to have more? If the answer is positive, of course the woman has almost no chance. It is unacceptable to violate the Constitution, it is unacceptable to violate the Labour Act, that women and according to the Labour Act, for example, the right to breast-feeding at the time of work cannot use this right. It's unacceptable for them to get fired as pregnant, etc., and so on. But I also think it's inadmissible, and so far, a little talk has been made, and I believe that in an individual debate there will be words when it comes to sensitizing the general public. We haven't talked about the media, for example, so far. I believe many of you remember the World Cup this summer. I don't know which one of you managed to see one commercial for the World Cup. I saw her in the late evenings and the second day she reacted sharply, so she was removed. Namely, that commercial advertised the World Cup in such a way that the husband who, of course, wanted to watch the women's game was bound to the toilet. He tied her hands, tied her legs, and didn't happen to scream from the bathroom, he taped her over her mouth. And it was obviously convenient and obviously funny, however, of course, it is a real example of the catastrophic promotion, or extreme discrimination of women. But of course, also, an invitation to violence. And that's something that needs to be given a lot of attention in everything we do. In particular, right here, I'd like to invite the media to really get involved. Of course, a statement by politicians, a statement of which officials at whatever levels they find attractive. Remember the jumps, even here in the Croatian Assembly there were them, not in this conference. Like here, a glass of wine and a little girl nice when talking about the most intelligent politics, so one of the MPs added more, and then the light went out, etc., etc. What I can say is that there is no such thing now, with pleasure, and that probably no one would dare in that way again, and about mattresses not to talk, and wise men, etc. So, the following goals are to introduce gender-sensitive education, balance women and men's participation in decision-making processes. So where the money is, where the power is, there should be women as well as men. Discussing all forms of violence against women, of course, violence continuously, on a daily basis, should be uncompromisingly condemned. No doubt condemning violent men, marking them, isolate them, regardless of whether they are high-ranking representatives, ministers, lawyers, journalists, doctors. So it's the task of all of us. What I want to announce more, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are going to change the Law on Gender Equality and in line with some remarks here in the debate. That, in the Law on Party Financing, which has passed, here, the first reading in the Government is likely to propose, it will be my proposal, that in the provisions that speak of political parties, parliamentary political parties that have, of course, MPs and MPs, they get 10% more for MPs, or representatives of the sub-represented sex, it is still for women in this case. I'll suggest it's 20%. In addition, as regards women on the labour market and many mentioned Economic and Social Councils, this debate in the Croatian Parliament on this document will also be the basis for a new call for a meeting of the Economic and Social Council where we will also discuss the useful remarks that you have made in this debate concerning women and their position on the labour market. I'm sure things have to change because on average 20% less pay for the same job for women employed if they can get a job is something that can't be tolerated. Thank you very much, and here I want the continuation to be constructive, and the government will, of course, do everything that it thinks can be accepted from this debate and built in and done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72755	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72756	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President. It's not true that you've done enough for mothers who work. I remind you that mothers craftsmen do not have the same rights under the Labour Act as mothers who work in the social sector or in private companies. For what? Because trades must be put on hold for 3 years, because they do not have the right to pension insurance and do not have health insurance within that period. So please turn that into a program. And I'd even prefer that bill that I've referred to in the procedure, to see it even if it's in a form similar to what was suggested. So be it your suggestion, but do it wrong, because we have a conflict in laws. One law makes it impossible for mothers to exercise their rights to craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72757	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72758	Thank you very much. It is not true that the Deputy Prime Minister has determined that this document will change things. It's just not true. Not one document changes things, but one proactive implementation policy. The fact is here while you speak nicely, and we declare and discuss all these questions that men beat women and that there is no law. You don't talk about this anywhere. Mrs. Iris Vukic came to me on Friday, and this is what that vice president looks like, with... Put your eyes on this, this is life, not these documents. With a broken immobilized neck, with a broken arm four times, now squats in fear in his house with his four children because they are... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72759	You can't address the Deputy Prime Minister that way, I give you a warning. The Deputy Prime Minister cannot be held responsible for individual cases of female abuse. I'm giving you a warning. We're moving on to an individual debate, the distinguished representative of Vesna Škara Ozbolt. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll take another chance to say a few more things in an individual debate. Agreeing with the findings of counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinovic that a proactive implementation policy is needed, so this may also be in line with the remarks that the Ombudsman had made for gender equality, where she actually proposed, I am personally very sorry that it did not go in as a proposal and working group that prepared this policy and then could not come to a meeting of the government, so that it might actually be necessary or that the time has already come, given that this is the third in a row of national policies, that through one of the measures each ministry could be given the task to build and implement a single project in the field of gender equality which is within the scope of its ministry. I don't think there's a ministry that doesn't touch gender equality policy in one way or another, and that once a year, every ministry submits to the government a report on the achievement of the Action Plan on Gender Equality. We think that this is a measure that is known in many countries and that can also have positive effects on ministry engagements in the implementation of gender equality policy. I would like to say a few more words about women in the labour market, i.e. the problem of harmonising work and family life. I think these measures that are proposed in that section are essentially insufficient. Unfortunately, one of the main measures proposed here is campaigns, stands, etc. to raise public awareness in society about the need for a balanced division of obligations or rights better stated in raising and raising children and in equal participation of men and women in domestic affairs. Today, somewhere in this relationship as far as men are concerned, about 3% are involved in the performance and work of household jobs, and here we also have the information that either poor 1% of fathers exercise their right and obligation to participate in raising a child, so it uses part of parental leave. The coherence of labour and family life is one of the essential parts of the European social programme, primarily to increase women's participation in the labour market, but also to change traditional family life as well as demographic pressures due to the growing older population. Promoting the coherence of family and professional life is also part of the European employment strategy and is one of the objectives aimed at combating poverty and social exclusion. The increase in the number of women on the labour market can be discussed here by tomorrow morning, cannot be achieved and will not be achieved without the participation of women and men in the performance of household and family obligations. I repeat, I believe that the measure provided for here is absolutely not enough and it will be years and years and years until in Croatian society we achieve as much equality as possible in harmonising these obligations. There are very clear measures from some countries that I think Croatia could also point out in this national policy. When we talk about discrimination against women on the labour market, I believe, of course, that it is known to everyone that discrimination against women on the labour market is also prohibited by the provisions of the Labour Act and the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality. Unfortunately, however, when it comes to the possibility of protection, then we face the system, because whether we like it or not, the system which is a trom, which is slow and which is needed when it comes to anti-discrimination provisions of any law in this country, not just the Law on Labour and the Law on Gender Equality. In national policy under the chapter gender equality challenges and obstacles, I quote: "The scope of the different forms of discrimination of women in the process of seeking employment as well as at the workplace is not proportionate to the complaints received and the representations of the competent authorities. One of the causes of a small number of complaints received and prosecuted is the insufficient operationality of the judiciary in the field of anti-discrimination provisions and the declaration of law which prevents it from applying and protecting its rights in concrete cases. In this respect, further actions should be taken to raise awareness and awareness of women with legal protection options contained in national legislation." I might now be able to say that this actually has absolutely nothing to do with it when I put it, so especially when you consider this last sentence standing here. It is bad news for us to raise awareness of women and work on raising awareness of the possibilities of legal protection when they cannot achieve such protection in practice. We're all talking about the ineffectiveness of our judiciary. I don't know if anyone's ever calculated and whether there's any statistics on how much of that mass of work dispute that's being conducted in front of our courts, how many people are actually referring to sex-discrimination charges, for example. Personally, I don't know if I'm wrong, I don't know any judgments from that domain. Well, experts agree that when they say that our judiciary is absolutely not qualified to judge and make judgments when it comes to anti-discrimination laws, when it comes to the standards that these laws put before them, and that is the fact that we should face and that is something that the Ministry of Justice and this government should be seriously dealt with. When we talk about encouraging women's employment, when we talk about different measures like the Deputy Prime Minister said about targeted groups relating to the implementation of the Employment Action Plan, etc., I have to say we'll have a day to discuss the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months of this year, and then it turns out that, let's say, active employment measures for groups that are threatening social depravity, four million kuna, are projected to be zero. Encouragement of target groups, fostering employment of target groups involving women 5 million kuna, implementing 1.86%, active employment policy and those programmes that were so many stories, 150 million kuna, implementation 13.72%. That's what to read, or not to say any more when I'm talking about hiring people with disabilities, one of the things that's been going on is that part of the measures that apply to women with disabilities, so that famous employment fund for people with disabilities, please just look at the budget with what percentage it was for the first six months. So these are the facts that I think we all have to take care of together. So, I just want to point out to the government that even a series of measures that exist are not implemented, I was also talking about the session of that GSV that two and a half years ago a series of measures were adopted, none of which were implemented when these measures were again proposed as some newspaper in this new national policy. And finally, I'd like to finish up and say two more sentences about the problem of violence against women. I said before, regardless of the strategy, regardless of the protocol violence against women has not been reduced and I think that in the preventive part, when I speak to me, we resuscitate through protocol and through I don't know these books that have been printed and the police have done a part of the work, etc., we are in fact healing in some way the consequences, I think that those causes, that this has been paid little attention to so far, and also through this new national policy. And secondly, we meet constantly with the problem of shelter for women and children victims of violence. I personally strongly advocate that it finally takes place in the making of the Safeguard Act, and then there would probably not be so much debate and confusion whether the secret addresses are, if they weren't secret addresses, if they had to have secret addresses. The issue of funding, which ministry is responsible, which is a consultation for women, who finance them, who finance shelters, so in this sense I ask, and I suggest that the government consider the initiative to, perhaps in a future strategy for the protection of violence, to protect women from violence to provide for a special law on shelters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72761	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Sobol and you and I absolutely agree in one assessment that without the exclusion of discrimination against women in the world of work, we can't even talk about suppressing discrimination. And you've noticed very well, it seems that the completely parallel colossals, which will never meet, are going to practice the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a policy that is incomprehensible. You yourself have shown this to the facts, and this is about investing these funds, so on the one hand we have this strategy, or a national policy that wants to convince us that this discrimination will be removed, that women will be provided with protection, job security, and the Deputy Prime Minister is merely mildly finding it inadmissible. We have not seen anywhere in this national policy what will be done so that women can exercise their rights by law. Programmes that led to women's employment, hence which eliminated the possibility of social exclusion, were abolished by the government in 2005, even though it is being denied today, according to the prosecutor's report on gender equality. And there's a reason, so we have one policy that's actually going on a completely different track and now this national policy that's declaring something different to us is why neither my club nor I can accept it. It is that we will be told, so this implementation of the budget for the first 6 months at the end of the year will be quite different, though, not by investing in jobs and hiring women, but because the government will change that budget by means of a regulation, they will say so we have achieved 100%, yes, but they have reduced resources and they have done nothing in the field of work. There's a problem. The main problem is a woman because I can't get a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72763	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72764	I agree with Mrs. Lalic when she says that the basis of discrimination in fact is the inability of women to participate in the labour market or the difficulty in women's participation in the labour market. I think that in my debate, too, I have warned of the lack of measures, and since the labour market and the position of the woman in the labour market is being stressed as one of the main objectives of this national policy, I believe that the measures proposed here are insufficient and I have warned that the funds foreseen through the budget in the first six months are not being implemented and these measures are not exactly sufficient. I agree in that part with Mrs. Lalic, because I already said that. We can bring strategies, policies, protocols, we can also pass laws, if we don't have institutions that can, they want, they need to implement them. We don't have trained, educated institutions for this implementation. So then I go back to that, so I don't see any reason why every single ministry with its own project doesn't commit to doing it every year when it comes to gender equality. So I agree, Mrs. Lalic, with your replica. It is true that these measures are not sufficient, and in fact it is also in some way a warning to the Government that and what they were a year ago, two or more days ago on certain bodies as the GSV brought in, that apparently no one took care to take these measures and implement them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72765	Thank you. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now that we're talking about who did what, then we're going to analyze a little bit, and that's who did what in protecting women's human rights and, of course, in implementing documents but also in protecting against domestic violence or violence against women. So the previous government is not in the document, in the national policy to promote gender equality in 2001, the deadlines. As regards the funds here are the examples for the implementation of national policy, the Committee for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been tasked. In 2002, 650 thousand kuna was secured for implementation but in 2003 you reduced to 260 thousand kuna. The national policy in 2001 did not contain an assessment of the situation at all, so we did not really know why something was proposed at all or there was no analysis of the indicators of discrimination against women or on the basis of which the proposed measures were made. It is interesting that the measures proposed did not include measures such as reducing the sayings of reducing unemployment and removing discrimination against women on the labour market. Now, when we talk about other things that were to be done under the law and according to the national policy of 2001. You're not ladies and gentlemen, you didn't set up the Gender Equality Office. That's the office we started. Then, when it comes to violence and showing me photos or photographs of a beaten woman. Madam former minister, you didn't and should have made a national strategy to fight violence against women or in the family by 2002, and you should have done it by 2002, and probably less beaten women would have been if you had done it. You didn't, and you should have also declared September 22nd the national day of the fight against violence against women. We remember, the violence in the municipal court, the murder of three women, you didn't do it. That's what we did. That's what this government did. So, we want, frankly, to do something to reduce the number of violence against women. The commission was also due to make recommendations by the end of 2002 on the establishment of family courts but was not directed to a coma. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the The MAP was to launch a survey into women's attitudes and expectations when it comes to the police's handling of various crimes committed to women's harm. As far as I can remember, it wasn't done. As far as women's human rights are concerned, no envisaged measures have been taken towards women members of national minors, programmes of women in rural areas, single mothers and elderly women. Therefore, much of the measures set out in the 2001 strategy has not been implemented, has not been even touched. And you see, we have made a national strategy of protection against violence and protocol that follows the strategy. And it is certain that a lot of moves were made before, in 2001, 2002, 2003, that violence against women would be far less and of course discrimination. The Ministry of Justice, Administration and Local Self-Government stands in this document from 2001 to June 2002. The programme of systematic education of civil servants, or officials, of human rights of women and the introduction of the principle of gender equality in all actions of state bodies to be implemented since 2002. As I recall, Madam Representative, as Minister of Justice at the time, you did not do so, so, of course, you cited one of the measures here that women must be provided with the right to a clean environment and that women are informed of the dangers of environmental disasters. Of course, with all this I repeat, women's maternity benefits have been reduced, the possibility of using three-year maternity leave, the possibility for those who want it, the possibility for those who have twins, three or more children. Therefore, much of what was planned since 2001, this government has achieved and realised in the protection of women's human rights, reducing women's unemployment but also reducing violence against women, and I urge that the continuation of this debate be focused on the concrete document on the measures proposed and how we will implement them and certainly fight the real gender equality in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72767	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72768	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. If you don't want to or see what's going on in life...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72769	Dear Representative Antičević! I'm just going to let you say as president, don't use it, don't wave to the public with pictures of a woman who's possibly been through either domestic or some other violence. Please don't wave in this assembly publicly with a picture and abuse the political accounts of the woman she sent you to help her in some way. Don't lift that painting again and make it public. That woman didn't deserve it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72770	It is not true that he wants to deal seriously with a mild problem of violence. It's just not true. But it's true that we've introduced a crime of domestic violence, we've passed a whole law, he's got a number of provisions, so you can inform yourself there, but exactly what you're saying is that we didn't mark this date, we weren't weak in marking the date, and to remind you once again, I was personally present when a husband in the courtroom killed a woman, because of these situations, because no one wanted to help her, because no one wanted to hear it, because no one wanted to see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72771	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the wrong quote by the Deputy Prime Minister, when he says the former government, the Prime Minister's government is guilty of a series of what's listed and that this current government has done too much to reduce women's unemployment. My dear Deputy Prime Minister, the same political option that has been today's government since the '90s-2000s. The year most women were out of work, the most women were out of work. What the coalition government has failed to do over four years is no excuse for the failures made by the current government. The citizens have shown no confidence in the then government and have given their trust to you. However, you instead of making improvements you are going back to what was done in the time period from 90 to 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72773	Thank you. I ask you to focus on correcting the incorrect quote. What you said wasn't the Deputy Prime Minister's word. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72774	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, by pursuing parallels and comparisons, simply incorrectly instructed and silenced the fact that it took 12 years for this country to adopt a national gender equality policy in the first place. She forgot to mention she was just in office last government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72775	This isn't a correction to the forgotten quote. It's an incorrect one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72776	No, she said it incorrectly. It's incorrect that she didn't say she was in the term of past the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72777	It's incorrect what she didn't say. You said so yourself. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72778	The first national policy, all this was done in a short little mandate she had and acted by the former government. And it's incorrect that in any way he's worsened than he's improved... Position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Remember... The government said the ministers had to stand up in front of men when they entered the room. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72779	Thank you. Please, you said yourself I'm correcting what the vice president didn't say. Let's focus on correcting the incorrect assumption that I'm not interrupting you. We're done with that. Let's move on. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Vice President, head of the office, colleagues and colleagues! Well, since the beginning of this debate, we've heard really different opinions about this document. I don't think he's unnecessary, I don't look at him so pessimistic, and I think he's actually being brought as another document to remove women's discrimination. Well, from the very introduction of this document, the origins of this national policy are visible. So from the assessment of the situation, it is evident that a whole series of institutions, mechanisms have been established in Croatia, that significant legislative changes have been introduced to combat gender inequality and promote equal opportunities policy, from the appointment of the Ombudsman for gender equality, the appointment of gender equality committees by county to the Gender Equality Office. There have been difficulties in establishing these mentioned committees. I must point out that in practice in large-scale local self-government units in the county, they really didn't come back to life and started in some districts with work. It is good that this national policy is once again tasked with strengthening these institutions and provides for a whole series of measures that will improve the work of the committees, and it is predicted that only once a year the government's office organises joint meetings of coordinators but it is necessary for these people to be educated and their activity to be strengthened. I have to say here from practice that just now the Gender Equality Office has organized in some education districts a grateful office for, for example, in my office instigating the work of this committee, the commission has been formally established but unfortunately has not been revived in practice. By insisting on the office and the president, it began with work and brought some concrete programmes. I think that's why you shouldn't neglect the re-enhancing of these exactly, I'd say down on the field at local level. The important role in empowering women is also seen by NGOs, we have seen it from a whole series of examples that, through their actions and sensitization of the public, created a picture in society, solved certain problems especially in the field of human rights and women's rights. Although they account for more than half of the total population of women, they do not still participate in a balanced ratio in various areas of social life. If we start from our benches, we'll see that we're about 21% here, but the two women are vice presidents of the Parliament, which is explicitly commendable, but concerns the low proportion of women in the behaviour of local government. Only 11% is the mayor, and imagine only 8.4% are women in the councils of the municipalities. There's a question of why. I don't think we're going to be able to respond here right now because the answer is layered. It is therefore good that both national family policy and this national policy proposal to promote gender equality, which provides for a whole series of measures to achieve this balance of representation between men and women in representative and executive bodies. I think it will help the most, but I must say the campaign, and raise public awareness of the problems, and the stands that will encourage many women to enter politics. The most important thing about equality between a man and a woman is that today we all agreed here and the economic independence of a woman, i.e. The woman needs economic strength, creating conditions for the employment of women. I think this ministry of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Croatian Employment Service, and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship are doing everything possible to strengthen women through various incentives and female entrepreneurship and put women first in the world of work. Most states, I would say public institutions need to recognise taking care of equal representation, but unfortunately in private businesses it is still not so. I therefore welcome from the proposed measures those related to the strengthening of kindergarten institutions, the opening of new preschool programmes, the working time of preschool institutions should be harmonised with the working hours of parents. In some European countries, in trade societies, large institutions have provided care for the children of employees, so I will also welcome that measure from this policy that applies and which provides for between the Tax on Profits for Child Education and Education to introduce tax benefits and that is one of the measures that will make it the most easier for a woman to spend her time at work because she will be carefree, she will know that her child is located in kindergarten and in a safe place. The new plan of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for all schools to work in one shift by 2010, will allow the primary schools to organize a full-day or half-day student stay as well as to organise extracurricular activities that will provide parents with better conditions of care for children and again I say in this way the working conditions themselves. In the report on the state of women's human rights in 2005 the Croatian Women's Network warned of the greatest violation of women's human rights within the framework of the educational process i.e. She warned that there are stereotypes of male and female sexual roles present. The textbooks show up very often, so-called men's and women's business. Article 3 of the new Law on textbooks, which we adopted for primary and secondary schools this year, stipulates that the use of textbooks whose content is inappropriate in terms of human and minority rights, fundamental freedoms and gender relations and education for democratic society will not be authorised. At this point, as far as I know, I have knowledge, it's a teaching standard. These demands need to be met. We've made changes and reforms in education, new textbooks are being created, and I hope those textbooks, these textbooks won't have just such regulations. As the school is a place where our awareness of gender equality is changed through a system of education, professional training, special attention should be paid to education of educational institutions, means educational staff, teachers and all those working in schools. I think the most difficult thing will be to achieve sexual balance in choosing the area of education in secondary and higher education institutions. It's hard to eradicate from practice, to convince parents that there's no so-called. men's and women's professions. This national policy is predicting it. From the practice of long-term work at a vocational school that was so-called A male school with male occupations, I can tell you that girls tend to opt for chemical technicians at such a technical school, and no one for an electrician or anyone else. So that's one tradition we have to root out. And I think in the end that here are the women who are teachers, and most of all the women are teachers, and everything from the data we've seen in this national policy, only 33% of the school's management is on young people and on kindergarten education priority to education and to start from the start with implementation and these measures. And in the end, I hope, regardless of some pessimistic thinking that these national policy proposals to promote equality through seven areas will solve and begin to solve many problems and certainly not solve everything. However, those measures that are being implemented will achieve the goal of this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72781	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72782	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the false allegations of my colleague, Roksandic, who said the Ministry of the Family and the Ministry of Economy is doing a great deal to help women. That's not true, and I support the following data. The family ministry, multi-member family projects for the first six months, or for the year planned spending millions and 400, and spent only 5 thousand kuna or 035. Support the social empowerment programme planned for 6 million, spent only 2 million. It's about family. And as for the economy ministry, active employment measures for groups that are threatening social exclusion, planned 4.5 million, spent zero. The Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, planned for 37 million kuna, spent a million kuna. It is among the disabled that the largest number of women are and these are women who are excluded from the world of work that have to be requalified, who have to professionally rehabilitate and return to the world of work and get out of social exclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72783	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72784	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Roksandić, who said that women were not enrolled in technical schools. I'm a witness that they are and that just the girls who went to technical school with me were real role models for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72785	A colleague of yours had a chemical plan to enroll in a professional school. Mostly in the chemical direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72786	She said none in electrical and engineering.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72787	Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72788	Technical direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72789	Yeah. You said now you say technical schools. It's not. I'm gonna go get those replicas. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72790	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, Roksandić, continued this debate on this topic, as was the introduction of the Deputy Prime Minister today and has been present the whole time. Which is the essence of the protection of law in any case in this case, of course, the rights of the legal sex, the rights of the woman. It doesn't arrange, not the attorney's office, not the reports, not the strategies, but the first quick and effective return of the denied right and punish the perpetrator, the one who acted against the law. Do we have rulings in the Croatian judiciary for acts against gender equality and how many and when? We can't get that, and neither can the government because it doesn't write, because the Croatian judiciary doesn't give this Parliament a report. But fortunately for the obligation to report your work is a state lawyer and we have a report on the 2005 agenda in this session. So please try to find one sentence in this report to mention Article 114. KZ, women at work, labour law and collective agreements. Discrimination based on pregnancy, layoffs, layoffs, less pay for women than men, which is a crime in Croatia. There are no cases of criminal offences recorded in this report. Was he there? I don't know. Did the state's attorneys file criminal charges and carry out the proceedings? I don't know. Because if you imagine in all the praises of the strategy and what we have done in the last three years, the State's Attorney's Office does not mention the subject in its report to Parliament. In her opinion, the government wrote, and I quote that they read this. Perhaps Mrs. Kosor, the vice president asked...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72791	Okay. Thank you very much. You're polarizing with a State's Attorney's Office report that's about to be discussed. Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72792	... But what you said at the beginning, we'll discuss it. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] However, without institutions, policies, strategies, law enforcement, there is no law to be implemented either. So, what life is, we have to have some frameworks of law and, I guess, some implementing regulations, and even politics and a strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72793	Second Replic, Honorable Representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72794	I thank you, Mr. President. Here she would replicate a respected colleague in the area when she mentioned female-economic independence, or female entrepreneurship. Namely, so-called. Women's entrepreneurship is a term that men hardly even know about today, and very few women know something about that term. Which, of course, is quite clear because the phrase itself already declares that in a society that should be worth, gender equality should be declared, that we are talking about something that is defined by sex. So entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship is both male and female, and it cannot possibly be female or male entrepreneurship. However, the processes of some who happen to entrepreneurship can be characterized as women because when a woman comes to the bank to raise credit for some business business, it is generally rejected because the properties on which she and the loan could be raised only in 3% in Croatia owned by women. So, real estate is 97% owned by men. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72795	Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72796	Thank you, Mr. President. So when I used the term "female entrepreneurship" at least I used it to track this debate that was being held until then, and I don't think I know a bit about it. Entrepreneurship is entrepreneurship. What you've used now in the replica about the loan, I don't know if 3% women get loans. 3% are owned by real estate. Unfortunately, that's because we're a traditional society, but it's up to us, colleague, to fight for it. Some of us did, fought, some of us still have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72797	Third replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72798	Dear colleagues spoke about the educational system, talked about textbooks, and as a major achievement over the last 3 years, stated that the new Law on textbooks also defined a provision that makes it impossible to approve textbooks containing some form of gender discrimination. Dear colleagues, the truth works, it was introduced into the old Bookbooks Act, in the first reading of the Law, which the minister proposed. It was not and it was just adopted on a proposal by the Advocate General for Gender Equality and our Committee on Gender Equality. Secondly, speaking of education, I'm sorry we're not here, and we haven't talked about it so far, we haven't all of us here at the Croatian Parliament pawned that what was written in the old National Politics, what is proposed in the new, gets some kind of... On August 23rd, we received a new curricula and a programme for elementary schools where no birth education was introduced again, that is, no education on gender equality and everything else was written about in both old and new politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, what was a measure in old politics, and yet it is envisaged as a measure in the new policy of education, education, this health, or sexual and sexual education, has not yet been adopted and there is still nothing to do with it. So, only the truth works. The measures you spoke of are not new, they are old, since 2001, and provisions on gender discrimination. What's the problem, what's now been approved by textbooks that still have birth stereotypes, even though it's also in the existing textbook standard that it's not. And I would like us all here to advocate that then the curricula and programmes that are being adopted really include those measures that are written in the National Policy. And not to deprive you of those actions of your ministers and the Minister of Education just because he is your minister, not what they contain of the things that you advocate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72799	Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72800	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Lugarić, if you had followed me well, I did not use the term "great achievements" at all and not in my style. I didn't say it was a newspaper. I said it was a good thing that it was accepted and that Article 3 was regulated. You know very well, because you're doing the same schoolwork, that a new curricula and program has been adopted, but that, to make a new teaching standard, it's not a small job, just to avoid so far mistakes. And you also know very well that new textbooks can't be approved overnight, that's what we've all talked about. So it's a process that goes on and don't get out of the context of my debate something that I haven't said or stood for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72801	And a replica, the next, respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72802	Well, co-worker Roksandic is used in that thesis, if incorrectness is spoken enough times, it is possible to become true. Therefore, it is completely incorrect and impossible for the 2010 course to take place in schools in Croatia in one shift. That today we are in a position to have the building permits for thousands of classrooms to be built by 2010 is physically impossible to do. And then when the minister said it, first thing in the afternoon on state television, his advisor corrected it and said that the goal was not to be a one-way course in 2010 but rather to keep no one going on three shifts in 2010. Another flossula is that Croatia is ready for mandatory secondary education. Gentlemen, today we do not have chairs for all high school students in Croatian schools, let alone that for one whole generation of high school students we still have space in high school, as long as he does not enroll or graduate from high school in Croatia. We need about 12 billion kuna investments in primary and secondary education in order to have one-way classes, and what you're doing is going to happen to you these days in colleges, where students are sitting in halls and parquets because you haven't provided them with a chair, let alone the quality that should be satisfied with the Bologna process. Not one place in colleges has been increased, let alone a new university building or a dormitory. Therefore, do not repeat falseness, but at last start doing something.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72803	Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72804	Thank you, Mr. President. I said something that's true, and you said something that I didn't say, that's incorrect. I said, quote: "new plan", if you know what the word "plan" means, "The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is that by 2010, all schools work on one shift". You and I aren't even in 2010. I sincerely hope that you and I will live to see 2010. She's close. And that we will realize our plan because we will. Because we've plotted it and I know we will. But I'll tell you something else. You come from local self-government. You are the mayor of a very rich city in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Mayor, I'm going to tell you now, colleague, please join in for the creation of better conditions for your schools. At the end of the elementary school are also at local level. I also think you wanted to politicize with me here. This Ministry of Science and Education is doing a lot of work and will be doing all its plans, and I repeat, by 2010, it will be achieved. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72805	Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. No, colleague Mršić, no comment. It's a throwaway. You can't, you can't, and you know you can't, you can't. And for this addition, the insertion to lie shamelessly here, colleagues of Anticevic, take a little time off. Hold on a second. We are discussing a policy to promote gender equality, so be at that level, not at the level of discarding. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72806	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected head of the government's Office for Gender Equality, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will begin by pointing out that I will, of course, vote in favour of the National Policy Proposal for the Promotion of Gender Equality for the period 2006 to 2010 which is actually continuing on previous national policies and brings redefined national priorities, ways of implementing and taking specific measures in accordance with the changed social and political circumstances, the awareness of the entire society and progress made in the previous period. The proposal for this national policy contains action programmes based on the already adopted structure, but also with respect to the real situation and the possibility of applying certain measures in relation to needs and time options. Of course, for the implementation of national policies to promote gender equality, and for all other national policies, strategies, various programmes, which also define and prescribe all measures to improve and implement gender equality policies, and not only women's populations but also individual target groups. The Republic of Croatia as a democratic country has made commitments under international agreements. It has taken over the implementation of UN Recommendations on the Elimination of Women's Discrimination, and as a candidate of the European Union, it has also undertaken to implement a framework strategy on gender equality. By promoting gender equality, we join a common vision of EU countries to achieve real equality between men and women as a prerequisite for a true democratic society in which respect for human rights measured its progress. Since the adoption of the first national policy to promote gender equality from 2001, the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality in 2003, the adoption of the Law on Protection against Family Violence. The law on the same-sex communities and the installation of anti-discrimination provisions in criminal law, family labour law, are pre-conditions for more effective implementation of gender equality policy. Of course we're not happy with all the results from the reality that it is. But conditions were created for more effective implementation. The establishment of the office and appointment of the Advocate General for Gender Equality during 2004 has appointed co-ordinators and co-ordinators in all ministries and other state administration bodies in the counties, thus creating an organised system for the implementation of gender equality policy at national level. Increased activities in 2004 and 2005 are the result of the establishment of a network of county commissions because by 2004, in most counties, the county commissions were not even established. And of course we expect these commissions to act actively. The recognition of the system for promoting gender equality at national and local level was also given by the UN Committee for the Elimination of Women's Discrimination in January 2005. I would certainly stress the importance and role played in the past by NGOs who have done a lot in sensitizing the public to certain phenomena but also in solving many problems in the human rights of women and proposing legal solutions. The biggest positive developments in the past 3 years have taken place in the area of protection against violence against women, thanks to the adoption and launch of the National Strategy against Family Violence for the period 2005 to 2007 and the Protocol on Family Violence. Unfortunately, according to the interior ministry, the number of police interventions in 2005 was 6.2% higher than in 2004. And in the first six months of this year, police received 7,000,953 requests from citizens for police intervention to protect domestic violence. Defensive results, of course. And this will likely result in an increase in number compared to 2005 by the end of the year. An increased number of domestic violence may also reflect the victim's courage to report and seek the processing of a bully as well as an orderly system of assistance to the victim, but certainly worries and cannot leave us indifferent but sad for the whole situation. I would therefore like to stress that all institutions of state and public bodies, NGOs, media are obliged to take all measures to reduce domestic violence, and unfortunately the children and women suffer most from violence. This National Policy Proposal elaborated a strategic framework and action plan for women's human rights through permanent and systematic campaigns to remove all forms of sexual discrimination and to move public awareness of women's human rights violations. A established plan to improve the social status of women with disabilities and women members of national minorities, a programme to improve the situation of Roma women in the whole society and within their communities. In particular, I would refer to the strategic framework and action plan in the section "Wifes and Health" which is elaborated in detail and, if implemented in the given terms, it will certainly get good results. The Ministry of Health and Social Care is already implementing one of the important programmes, which are important for promoting women's health. With all the material limitations, it provided funds for the prevention and early detection of breast cancer for women from 50 to 69 years of age who have started spending since Monday, and I can tell you that I come from public health that the reactions are extraordinary, that the free phone is constantly in operation, that women report, welcome that action, that the response is quite good, but I would certainly take this opportunity to call all women who get a call to respond, because if 70% of women report to screening mammography in the next five years, they will reduce women's mortality by 25%, which is really going to be a major shift. Some county as far as I know, Primorje-goranska, Istria, Zadar County, Zagreb, have already spent many years of breast cancer prevention programs in their counties and achieved extraordinary results, so if I didn't happen to mention a county that already does, I apologize, but in any case I call on all counties to actively engage in the development of a breast cancer programme for women who are under 50 years old because believe me, we in Zadar have achieved excellent results, 100% of women who have responded to mamography in the last year and a half. Many cancers have been discovered at an early stage where the rate of healing is the highest, so a lot of lives has been saved and with little resources, but with goodwill and good organisation each county can implement this programme. I would certainly like to highlight here a great success of Croatian public health for the project management and management of health care of the county in which 15 Croatian counties and the City of Zagreb participated with 153 participants who this year received a award for the excellence of the American Department of Global Health of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention from Atlanta. This is the biggest recognition that Croatian public health has ever received, and success is the greater the project of the Istrian County Unit for breast cancer, the reduction of the duration of the diagnostic procedure of women with breast cancer in Istria as part of the health county programme received an annual award for the best applied project for 2006. The success of Croatian public health is greater as 30 countries with very strong programmes and 100 applied projects participated in this award. Point 6 for 1 of this national policy, this chapter, says campaigns will be organised to promote a healthy lifestyle and warn against harmful habits. I keep it very important because the prevention and care of each individual about his healthy lifestyle is a basic prerequisite for health and long life. And on this plan Croatian public health is working a lot with various prevention projects of various addictions. Chapter 6.4 lists measures to reduce the frequency of sexually transmitted diseases, which I find extremely important, as due to lack of information, insufficient concern for young people for their health, in a tremendous increase in the infection of young people with human papilloma virus and chlamydia, which causes female infertility. We're sick of all measures of the ultimate politics, when because of infertility, women won't have anyone to give birth to us. And in the end, I would point out one fact, one Croatian reality, which is although the Republic of Croatia has established new institutes and adopted a number of new laws and measures to achieve gender equality, statistics, indicators and our daily lives show the presence of a de facto discrimination of women in many areas, and we all agree and hope that we will all vote for this National Policy proposal to promote gender equality and that institutional and non-institutional measures will not only reduce discrimination but also take a step further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72807	Thank you. A few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72808	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to rephrase to my colleague, first of all to congratulate her on what she said, what she said, in fact, to congratulate health on all these achievements she mentioned, but do you expect gender equality to be for me to go to mammography? It's not. It's a standard of health that should be respected by us, it has nothing to do with gender equality. But there's one other thing I also expected you to mention here, and that's what you said here, in any case, that law should be implemented, and a number of institutions that need to implement the law, you also said that you expected the county commissions to do their job, but I expected to follow up on what we discussed yesterday on the Committee on Gender Equality, that you would mention a way of monitoring, in fact, the way that national policy is being monitored. I just got a call from the Vice President that I didn't read the documents and that I didn't read the law and that I don't know who the Gender Equality Office is reporting to. I know he's putting up with the government, but I'm there and I've asked the government at least every year, if not differently as it says for the office here, that the government submits a report to the Parliament. Well, my colleagues and I discussed it yesterday on the board, so I'd like to pray that since my amendment certainly wouldn't have passed, I would have asked you and your colleagues to submit such an amendment, I believe that then the president will accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72809	Replica response, respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72810	Dear colleague. When I talked about the successes of public health and what is being done to promote the health of the Croatian population, then it is certainly in the context of this topic that we are discussing for reasons that, as in all domains, priorities are established in health and in line with the possibilities and implementation. And in this very policy of promoting gender equality, it is also defined as a measure of reducing the incidence and treatment of not only breast cancer but also of all tumours in women. And that is why I wanted to emphasise how important it is that it has already started with the national programme for breast cancer prevention and all other programmes that work in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72811	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72812	Thank you, Mr. President. So, related to this, colleague Brnadić, you are referring to violence against women precisely listed the data of course sent by the MUP on how many interventions there were and reports related to violence against women, namely domestic violence for the first 6 months of this year, which is relative to looking at half a year, then the final number could be expected to be higher. But there's one thing you didn't say next, and that's what I think is very important. When we talk about strategies and when we talk about protocols, about conduct, because certain institutions, the ministries have their tasks to do through this protocol. So it's actually amazing this data, that since 01.01-30.06., the police have proposed infringing courts to impose 4 thousand 262 protective measures that we have in the Family Protection Act, a thousand 964 proposals for mandatory psycho-social treatment, so treatment, 296 prohibitions of approaching victims of violence, 110 prohibitions of harassment, 183 measures of distance from apartment, house or other residential space, etc. What happens when it comes to a mistrial? It happens that since the 296 restraining order the victim of violence, the court has pronounced 68. Of the proposed 110 prohibitions of harassment, the court proposes 16, out of 183 proposals for distance from the apartment, house or other residential space, a court of 29 and the police are acting accordingly, and when it comes to mandatory psycho-social treatment that the police have proposed since a thousand 964 cases, there is no record of how many such psycho-social treatments have been done. You know why there's no one else? Because only before the summer of this year, at 6 or 7 months, the competent ministry has passed a rule on where this psycho-social treatment is going to be, which are the institutions that are going to do this, and that is when we say we have strategies, we have protocols but we don't have all the institutions dressed, educated to work under these protocols and strategies.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72813	Replica response, respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72814	Well, here's my colleague, of course, to share your opinion that this is truly a devastating statistic related to domestic violence, and you, as well as I, know that we cannot interfere in the work of the judicial authority. We can also comment on this debate and all the strategies that we bring, all the policies that we make are going towards that goal to sensitize the public, to involve all institutions and outside the institutional systems to ensure that gender equality, the fight against violence in the fullest sense, is brought to life in our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72815	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72816	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I would be interested in how you found in your debate that a major shift was made in the area of protection against domestic violence and the protection of domestic violence, since there are no official data in the State Statistics Office. As the colleague said earlier, there are data from the police administrations, there are data from the social work centre, but we do not have data from those who do not come to such centres or to these police administrations or centres, which is the data recorded by doctors or those first persons who are being abused by violence. In order to have a complete picture, then, it would be necessary for such statistics to be conducted in Croatia and for the State Statistics Institute to conduct complete statistics on violence against women, on violence against children in the family, so on everything that is going on. On the other hand, while we're talking about how big progress has been made in the last six months in the media we've been bombarded with various cases of which some are absolutely catastrophic that we haven't had a chance to see or hear before. So one thing's the impression, one thing's real about what's going on. And the other part where I'd like to replicate to you is that carrying out a programme to prevent women from being treated with breast cancer or something like that is just a civil and health standard and there could be, you could talk about gender equality if you wrote inside, say, protection of men from prostate cancer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72817	Replica response, respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72818	Dear colleagues, of course, I used the data we received from the Ministry of the Interior. That the statistics are certainly not yet arranged, because there are many things that affect privacy and intimacy, and that cannot be made public with certain statistics. Progress has certainly been made because there has been an increase in reported cases of domestic violence, processed cases of domestic violence, because precisely because a strategy has been adopted, which has been adopted, which has been sensitised by the public and what the victims know is that the system has been done and that they can report and expect help and protection. And as for the National Programme for the Prevention of Breast Cancer at this time, it was initiated precisely because the highest incidence of breast cancer was and what was urgent was to take all measures to stop and treat this disease in time. And the incidence of prostate cancer is certainly not as much compared to the population as is the incidence of breast cancer. Thank you. ... And it's foreseen in the future and a lot more, it's scheduled for the next year to screen colon cancer, which is also a big problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72819	Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72820	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome Madam Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. So you see for yourself this debate today that has been going on since the early morning hours, since we started talking about how right the Government of the Republic of Croatia was when it put it as a very important area, so the subject of gender equality. So, the government has also established an office that, in order for us to talk about this, they already have these people to contact the Government's Gender Equality Office. Not to mention the signing of protocol, the suppression of domestic violence, the declaration of a national Day of Violence against women and a large number of things that we are, let's say for some other reason we will not confirm here, in this House of High, because if we speak as some of my predecessors have spoken, whether in the name of the clubs or in the replica, that the village is known for having a lot of alcohol. Mr. Kapraljevic, I was born in the country, 120 houses, no man left single, we all have families, there's a lot of alcohol, and no one's drinking alcohol, but we're making alcohol and we're living out of it. So much for that. But we, we must all be clear, that it suits us, let's say 15-20 years, some things haven't even been talked about, and domestic violence, violence against women in the family is especially, so we've all known since the early days. Only today do we have this freedom, so we can speak thanks to God, thanks to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the former governments, who have allowed us to open our offices, that women who are certainly a large number now, and therefore there is also abuse in the family, there is a public light and they can be debated. Will they be resolved or not?- I'm sorry. And one thing that bothered me during today's debate, which is when the distinguished vice president said I was counting in the assembly, there were 16 men, and we all watched closely and listened to the minister while the ladies were talking and throwing away. Then we're talking about some gender equality. That was one of my objections, and she even had to react to the Deputy Prime Minister to calm them down. I'll tell you that the greatest progress on gender equality has entered sports. It used to be unthinkable for women to go to football games. Today we have a large number of women at football games, we have women who have been judging men's leagues, even since this year and European cups, so women judge. We have managed to make one of the biggest tennis tournaments in Wimbledon to level the prize fund, so now it's being followed both in Paris and New York. There may be slight differences in the rewards, but it's again bussines, depending on the sponsors, so I think we're moving forward, but in these things that we're discussing today we should throw out politics, congratulate the government and the government's office on some of the things that he suggested because here the title says this is a proposal. So, we're going to discuss this proposal, we're going to bring and give our opinion maybe even amendments because we heard here today, I've heard very good ideas here today. The most talk was about women on the labour market. Surely today's problem if we have a thousand and 500 to 600 children waiting for kindergarten in Zagreb. I personally presented my example from my family on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports yesterday where a college-educated girl couldn't get a job because she didn't have anyone to look after her child. Gentlemen dear, she couldn't have been... We waited a year for him to have kindergarten. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When the child went to kindergarten, it is even impossible to imagine the mangers in the city of Zagreb. So the kid went to kindergarten now and she got a job, started working. Few people wanted to hire, so it must be clear to all of us, a woman who has a little baby at home knowing what it's like with kindergartens. So I think about one more thing in politics and I think we could all look up to the Croatian Democratic Community because it is the only party that has given the candidate for the president of the country and is not the president or president of the party but a member. Mrs. Kosor was a member of the HDZ and was appointed candidate. And I'll tell you a paradox. She received more votes as a woman in Bosnia and Herzegovina than in Croatia. That sounds a little weird. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72821	Replicated representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72822	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow Arabovic, this must sound strange that she received more votes in Bosnia and Herzegovina than in Croatia, rather than in fact for some even expected. But like this, to go back to what you started first where you directly told me that in your village, all the men were married and I'm going to tell you the example of my village in Slavonia, which is the Ferricans. We're famous for wine, but not because everyone drinks, but the wine producers "Fera Wine", you probably heard, I wouldn't want to advertise. There are 176 men in my village who have been single for over 25 years or 128 over 28 who are single. To be honest with you in my village was as much like yours in that former system when everyone worked, when everyone had a secure future, when everyone had that. I'm not saying this to praise that system, but I'm saying that no matter how much we spit on it, and I don't know what they're saying, I was the first one to spit on it. But then everyone worked and there was some perspective. Now that these people are out of work, it's a lot harder to start a family because I can't get to the apartment, I can't get to the car, and I can't talk any further without talking about it if I go to some private bussines.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72823	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72824	Thank you very much. Well, for some things in your replica, I would agree with the same thing other than this when you said in that system. You know the difference between mine and your village in that system? In your village in that system, men could stay and live with the family and in my village they had to go to Germany to do physical work to come over the holidays. ... So maybe that's the difference when you're sorry about that system. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't regret it. I felt it on my skin until late, so maybe among the last. What does that system mean? I've spent my whole life talking about this system that we have now, and now that you mention that system, I can't agree with it. And I think with strong villages we won't even have strong cities, without strong village pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72825	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72826	I thank you, Mr. President. Here, I must admit that I was just pleasantly provoked by fellow Arabovic saying that maybe going to football is something that should stand in our strategy. I think you should stand by to discuss this in the strategy of promoting equality but, let's say, Iran. However, I think that we must concentrate in our strategy to equalise ourselves in terms of the economic making of women and men. That's the goal, and that's what we have to endure. That's the point, women earn just as much as men. And when we succeed, then we will really be able to start talking about equality. This economic violence and this economic imbalance is something that is hidden, which we have not yet reached to the end and all that remains is just the result of this particular imbalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72827	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72828	I will tell you that a country that is now to enter the European Community of Turkey and today in certain cities there is a way in for women and a way in for men. They will enter the EU, it is a disaster. And in our previous years, it was inconceivable, I merely set an example for women to be seen in large numbers in the stadium. I just put it as an example. ... Okay, sure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's all I wanted to say. I didn't mean for it to be something weird. I thought that was normal before. And as for work, I'm sure it hurt me, and that thing that a woman has 19.4% lower incomes on the same job, and that's where it can be done the fastest. Let's see what makes a woman 19.4% less paid for the same job she's doing? Is that where we can report every year how many women like that are there if we have the will? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72829	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72830	Here's my colleague and colleague, I'm going to start by actually showing my regret, which is one serious topic and a document that could have served one serious debate unfortunately the course of the debate turned in a direction that wasn't produced at least by my deep conviction. I regret that the Deputy Prime Minister, after being solid, would also say that I would like to make an acceptable opening statement to a tone in which, instead of going from what is essentially a problem in this important topic, we have turned to a debate that is in no way helping to be the problem we are talking about, it is about gender equality, gender equality advanced in this country. When I say that, I mean first of all, the fact that I don't refer to what was given in the opening chapter as a challenge and obstacles, rather than having a debate about what it is, and which is not so far who did it is not simply good. This cannot result in quality, and if you want even a consensual shift because I have suggested in this national policy the possibility of such a consensus to say approach simply in a conceptual sense can be accepted. I'm only going to say on one segment of what's being said, about a national policy that's repeatedly highlighted here as perhaps the most crucial, most important. It is about equality between men and women in the labour market because there is no doubt that all other segments and equality are in some way derivatives from the economic status and position of the woman in society. It seems to me a key, key philosophical assumption for the design of a strategy. If it goes to empowering women, then it will certainly be an economically independent woman who will be less exposed to domestic violence because she will not be forced to suffer it, then it will certainly lead to increased participation if you want in political life, in the decision-making system and so on. I therefore believe that this may be the most important area in which we should bring special attention, special attention. When we say what we have done so far, we can deal with the past and it is not bad to deal with it if it will be a sign of a better quality future but can we look for what the government has done? What was going on until 2000? Well, 2000 to 2003. So what was now done and what wasn't done or what was failed to do? If this were to be a function of creating a good national policy or its operationalisation, I would be in favour of that kind of debate. But if this debate goes to the point that, for example, now the vice-president of the government who should homogenize me to say not only Parliament, goes in a funny, snide way to talk about something that has been done as a first step in a different design and if you even want to focus attention on this problem because I will remind you, perhaps it is too little, institutional assumptions in terms of the creation of the law have been passed. The Office was also designed, for example, gender equality which did not function in the term of the last government. It is now, but at least it's legal. Major changes have been made to the Labour Act in the sense of banning discrimination against women at work and so on. Something's been done. But colleagues and colleagues what is worrying, which seems to me to be a zero point of which we have to start when we're building a new, new national policy in 4.5 years, then these are the figures that we're referring to here. Or you say, I think we're talking about a common problem here. If it's determined that women are now 50% made in the structure of the unemployed, then that's the point we're starting from. Is that more or less than it was 5, 6 or 10 years ago? If it's more then we have to set ourselves a goal, and these are the real goals, not 46 goals or 40, which is, 146, 30 goals, 146 measures. Then the goal is not to be 59, but to be 54. 55 or three years. If we find that we don't have a nursery and kindergarten, which is a problem that will prevent women from being involved in the world of work, then we'd have to set up indicators. At this point, we need to know how much we're missing, and what are we going to do, how are we going to measure whether we're doing it? We need to make an action plan out of this to achieve it by 2010 so much and so much. Or we say women have 20% lower wages. Well, we can't stay on that finding. We must recognize in these measures how in four years we will say that women have, that we are not now, that we are not fantasizing. We'll say four years from now they'll be even. But she'll have maybe 10% less pay. So we'll be able to track certain shifts. We don't discuss it here, and unfortunately, even in the document we have ahead of us, it's not visible how it could be achieved. Or the share of women in entrepreneurship 30%. Or here we talk about only 27% of the share in the total incentives of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship for women participating or about the number of 1% of men participating in maternity, parental leave and so on. These are the indicators we should go from. What's wrong with me in this national plan? Measures are simply being chased and targets are being pursued. If you look at the verbs that are starting to measure she'll see that actually a good part of these verbs means that it's about goals. They'll say this: Empirical research will be conducted, national classification will be harmonised, static data collected. They'll join the design, subsidize employment, come on, it can be a measure but it's also a goal. A program will be developed. It will be conducted, education will be conducted, courses will be organised, secondary analysis will be conducted, a strategy will be adopted, women will be singled out as a separate target group, tax incentives will be considered, and that will be taken into account. The introduction of tax reliefs for self-employed women and women entrepreneurs will be considered, says the holder of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, the implementation deadline 2008-2010. Well, it won't take two years to consider God's tax relief. What kind of definition is that? What a measure that is. They won't be considered for two years. It must be considered whether we will or will not, whether this goal contributes to what we want to do or do not contribute, and then it will be done, and it cannot be considered for two years. Women's entrepreneurship will be systematically promoted through media campaigns. How about us, where the indicators are? What are measures? How are we going to follow in a year and say that we're making progress in this business no matter what government it is, this one, she or twenty-six. So the thing is, I'm only on this one segment that seems important to me, I recognize actually the lack of what I don't know in this Anglo-Saxon mile calling this action plan, so we know what who should do it and what are the quantified goals that we have to achieve. It's the only serious way, we have to take the job. This story about this, this gender equality pathetic has nothing to do with real life. It only makes sense for us to sit down and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72831	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72832	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the thing: There's pathetic in this story. So when we're talking about something here or when the government proposes something, then it's the future, it's pathetic and so on. Well, you're saying yourself, in our time we've passed the law but it hasn't worked, so we keep hearing that story. You're all legal, and nothing worked until we came to power. Still incorrect. Well, that's not what's being discussed here. The 59th woman is more unemployed than men, that 20% has a lower salary. Well, it's not true, in a series of examples, we've seen it that way. And the fact that the stock market lacks construction workers, workers, and there are a lot of unemployed high school girls, and we're going to have a very hard time dealing with this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72833	Replica, respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72834	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I mean, the gentleman left in the old good habit, said his and went out, not him, but usually a lot of his colleagues and colleagues do it. So all I wanted to do was replicate when he said about the president, the Deputy Prime Minister, that she was talking dirty. I think Mrs. Kosor would have such a way of saying that she wouldn't get what she got, to lead a very sensitive ministry to lead. Because as a person, she can't talk dirty to people and be at the head of that ministry. Another thing, Mr. Vidich, thank you for coming back. Another thing, when we were talking about kindergartens. ... asked like this, what do you think of one proposal that every major Croatian company that has a certain number of employees must do in its part of a kindergarten. [[You don't understand.]] I think it's one proposal that might be considered, doesn't have to mean male and female. If some MPs and MPs have suggested that fitness be made in this House, I think it would be better to create a kindergarten in these stronger Croatian companies where there are a number of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72835	Replica response, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72836	I haven't heard, I'm sorry, Mr. Francis, I haven't heard the whole line, but on this second part, I want to say something, if we're serious. The kindergartens are missing, the breeders are missing. There are opportunities for a private public partnership, there is an interest, we can indeed solve this problem in a solid short time, but here I am now going to say without the intention of criticizing someone. There was a nanny training program and it was shut down. And canceled. We could thus quickly get, therefore, women who in their own homes could greatly compensate for this serious shortage of kindergartens and mangers. Why did that happen? I don't know that, Franjo. ... There was a way to pay for it, a whole concept, a project of the State Institute for Family, Motherhood and Youth. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72837	Thank you. We interrupt the session. Resume at 15.00 hours. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić on the order of Mrs. Jagoda Martic, etc. Thank you. We'll continue with the session. Dear Representative Zeljko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72839	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I will stress that I will support the National Policy Proposal to promote gender equality as I did on the Committee on Gender Equality for a number of reasons, so I may briefly repeat something that has already been said here today. And this is that this proposal ensures the continuity of the implementation of the National Policy to promote gender equality since 97, 1997. First of all, this proposal is comprehensive and comprehensive in relation to the problems we face today. It is extremely pragmatic and enforceable in relation to the assessment of the situation, and most importantly it contains direct tasks, holders of tasks and execution deadlines. Many aspects of this National Policy Proposal to promote gender equality are highlighted here, such as equal opportunities on the labour market, equality in the decision-making process, violence against women and many others mentioned today. However, I would stress here one aspect of this proposal which is as important, but perhaps not as important as the ones we're talking about. This is the international aspect and international obligations, the international and legal obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the area of the protection of women's human rights and the implementation of equal opportunities policy. And these international and legal obligations arise precisely from the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations and the Council of Europe as well as from the commitments made in the accession process to the European Union. When we talk about membership in the United Nations, and first of all, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women as an international contract that has been concluded and confirmed in accordance with the Constitution, and by law above the law. In the process of accession negotiations with the European Union, the adoption and implementation of a national policy to promote gender equality also means meeting the political criteria for membership in the European Union, related to further harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union and improving equal opportunities policy. Looking at all these aspects, and in particular I say this international aspect, I cannot help but say this at this time a few words about the inappropriate gender equality attorney on the Committee on Gender Equality where respect for her autonomy and independence has come up with a confusing situation where the advocate for gender equality rejects all the values of this document, stressing that she refused to create what I think was neither well-intentioned nor showed concern for all those whom the National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality was related to. However, she was willing to offer her amendments to the Committee and thus tried to directly influence the National Policy Proposal. Speaking of this proposal given by the Government and presented by the head of the office, the Ombudsman dealt with a particular reserve without believing it and considering it not to be good. And now I'm asking a question that I'm being asked, logically thinking, so don't we here in this House of Commons expect a lawyer for gender equality to submit a report to us? And that report should certainly include how national policy is implemented. And I'm expressing my suspicion and I don't believe that this report can be objective, that it can be in accordance with the law. Because if someone has already given up one document that they have to file after a year, I doubt that this report can be objective and realistic. And I therefore believe that, let me give my humble opinion, that because there is some way that the Ombudsman has expressed her public opinion on this National Programme, the National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality, and that this proposal will pass and in this debate where many clubs have declared themselves to be for this National Policy Proposal. Just as many NGOs have declared themselves, saying that this is a great proposal and that they are a list for it. I think it would be both moral and honorable and democratic for the Ombudsman to file his mandate at the Parliament's disposal and for us here to decide whether she can submit to us in the next term a report on something she denies in advance. I believe that, I regret that there are no colleagues of Kapraljevic, that his proposal that the government submits a report to the Parliament may also be encouraged by not believing that the prosecutor's report would be objective, so he suggested that the government itself submit a report, which I do not think is in line with the legal provisions. So, we expect the Attorney General's report to be submitted to us within the legal deadlines, and I am expressing my suspicion that after she has publicly declared that this programme is not good, after her amendments have been rejected and after the Parliament adopts this programme, I do not believe in her objectivity in reporting. And let me finally remind you that everything we've heard here today, that the first programme was adopted since 1997, the first national policy to promote gender equality, as well as in 2000. So there is one continuity in the adoption of programmes and legislative regulations. However, someone passed laws, someone passed game rules, and this government launched during this government and a national strategy was adopted to fight violence, and the Office for Gender Equality was also established during this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72840	Thank you. Replications. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72841	Mr. President. I simply have to react since in one part of my colleague Nenadic spoke about the inauguration of a lawyer for gender equality yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Gender Equality. My colleague, I can only wonder if we were in the same session? I personally find it inadmissible, first of all, to show the lack of knowledge of the Law on Gender Equality and what are the responsibilities of the office, which are the responsibilities of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. And I still have to tell the truth here because of something you didn't say. The D.A. said yesterday that she thinks that the document isn't good and that she thinks it's bad. But she also asked and asked members of the board and the Croatian Parliament to accept the national policy proposal as it is. The D.A.'s office had a representative in the task force. As far as I know, the Ombudsman made her observations and opinions on the national policy proposal. One part of the remarks that did not adopt the working group, so it could not go to the government, as it has often referred to our committee, which I believe is completely legitimate and in line with all the democratic principles that this committee has accepted at least so far. Now speak within the framework of accepting this national policy and seek the attorney's mandate at your disposal, I think, my colleague Nenadic, you are a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, that it absolutely has nothing to do with and prejudge the right to speak to someone or to report on a national policy that is not agreed with at first. Which means neither I nor anyone else who is against tomorrow should have the right to talk about this national policy report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72842	Replica response, Honored Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72843	Comrade Sobol, you were, we were at the same session, definitely, and if you remember the lawyer said by commenting on this proposal – better anything than nothing. Well, I don't think it's appropriate for her function or the committee she's been on. As for the representatives of the task force, it is quite understandable that the Ombudsman participates, sucreates what the office brings. Why not? And I can't understand her statement that she personally didn't want to be because of some autonomy. And as for talking about something, yes, but I wasn't saying that someone shouldn't talk about something, but the question is whether the lawyer will be able to speak objectively about what is denying at the very beginning. And that's definitely true. It is very difficult to speak objectively of something that is denied during the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72844	Another replica, Honored Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72845	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Advocate General for Gender Equality acted as a conscientious and responsible person. The easiest thing for her to do was to listen and praise her and say that she was great. Speaking of resignations and your proposal and your suspicions, if we're already on resignation, it's more logical that this proponent who resigns from this sort of thing. But let's drop our resignations now. It's strange your understanding of democracy, that someone who dares to question your minds, who isn't willing to say praise to any association, whether it's an institution, whether it's a person at the head of an institution, he's suspicious. Come on, buddy, please. And besides, look what it's all about. Well, she's a person, a lawyer is the person who's gonna have to do this tomorrow. So how to get through this, please. Here's just one extract from this. The introduction of tax reliefs, the 2008 deadline, will be considered. The Ministry of Finance. For two years, he will think and what, he has no obligation to say that they have considered it and not to introduce it or make it known at all. They'll consider it. Well, that's too bad for the Ministry of Finance. They'll think for two years. It could get a stroke of the sheath.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72846	Replica response, Honored Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72847	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that my esteemed colleague doesn't believe what she said herself, because definitely if someone refuses to participate in making something, then I'm talking about what someone else did without it is wrong and after that you should bring your own judgment about it, so I ask you what kind of court will be but negative. In what case can he be positive? And when we talk about how who was doing and who was doing and who had to resign, I would definitely ask the head of the office to resign if this House hadn't adopted this national policy proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72848	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72849	Here, dear colleague, Mr. President. Ma co-worker Nenadic said in his debate that we should also consider the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality, so I remind him that we had this in June of this year and that the HSP club opposed the report because we also established the IDS club that the Gender Equality Advocate was working on a mobbing in her office, not that she was doing what she was supposed to do. But unfortunately we were against that report, and you voted yes, so now what happens to you is when you didn't want to listen to us when it was an opportunity to discuss it and it's exactly what someone said, it's what Roman principle – a good law will be bad if it's carried out by bad people. And bad law can be good if it's carried out by good people. And now we have both bad ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72850	Dear representative, come on. Replica. Zeljko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72851	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, thank you to my esteemed colleague Kovacevic, but I think it's never too late for good moves. So, I do, but when you're just me, a little bit of you have to make it right that I didn't say that we need to discuss it now, but in a year we're going to discuss this report that will refer to the national policy of promoting gender equality, and that report will be done by someone who initially denied that national policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72852	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72853	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to gender equality, then we can conclude that much has been done in Croatia on this matter in a legislative sense. We have also developed a good network of institutional mechanisms to promote gender equality. In practice, however, we do not have the result that we should expect to have in view of what we have done so far. In Croatia we are successful in passing laws and various regulations but we are even more successful in their non-implementation or in non-compliance in practice. According to the Law on Gender Equality, gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status, equal opportunities for the achievement of all rights, and equal benefit from the results achieved. If judging by the situations we face in everyday life, then we can conclude that we are far from so defined gender equality. Therefore, it is not surprising to conclude the European Commission's opinion on the request of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union, which states among other things that some progress has been made in addressing the problem of discrimination but also concludes that greater progress needs to be made. In the 2005 Progress Report, the European Commission concludes that non-discrimination policy and gender equality generally did not receive the necessary attention or did not address them. The implementation of existing rules remains problematic and hampers the lack of statistical indicators by sex. Legal provisions are necessary to provide for the removal and deterrent fees in the event of discrimination. In order to make a more significant step towards achieving a higher degree of gender equality, political will is primarily needed. Let's just remember one detail. On the basis of Article 11(1) of the basic Regulation, The law on gender equality of all ministries, as well as all state bodies, legal persons with public authority, and legal persons in the bulk of ownership of the state or units of local and regional self-government, have an obligation to adopt action plans based on analysis of the situation of women and men and to establish the reasons for the introduction of specific measures, the objectives to be achieved as well as the way in which they are implemented and the methods of monitoring them. It was defeating that most ministries had not adopted action plans by the end of 2005 even though the legal deadline for their adoption was until 30 July 2004. If national authorities fail to comply with the provisions of the Gender Equality Act, how to expect or ask others to do so. That's why I'm not sure what fate is meant for this national policy to promote gender equality for the next five years. Will its provisions be brought back to life in practice and everyday life or will it remain more or less of a declarative nature? It is also a shame that it is brought like this, I would say in a hurry and that there was not enough time for a broader public debate to be held on that subject involving all gender equality subjects because I am sure that this would result in a much better quality document. The position of women in the labour market and the employment area is one of the most sensitive issues, because despite all the legal regulations, solutions, national policies, millenniums and accepted international conventions in Croatia, discrimination on the labour market is at the time of employment, at the time of loss of work, at the time of pay. Women are harder to hire, easier to lose their jobs, for the same jobs are less paid. The share of women in the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia is on average 59.3% and in certain regions and 65%. The share of women in the number of unemployed over a year is 61%, despite the fact that the educated structure of unemployed women and men and their previous internship is the same. On average, men in Croatia have 19.4% higher salary than women. Women are more often asked questions about family status when they are employed. The biggest problems with work and employment are the problems of pregnant women and mothers, for example. When hiring women, they ask questions about possible pregnancy, the number of children and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72854	You don't have to hug so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72855	If a woman is employed by a fixed-term contract, the contract shall not be extended and the woman shall be out of a job. And after returning from maternity leave, if she still kept her job often the woman welcomed second job, of course it was an inappropriate job, meaning either less paid jobs, worse working conditions, etc. Therefore, it is no wonder that the UN Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women, which was adopted in the final comments for Croatia, after having considered on 18 January 2005, a second and third periodic report on the application of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women and the Assessment: The Committee expresses its concern about the serious difficulties faced by women on the labour market as seen at the high unemployment rate of women, the existence of highly vertical and horizontal segregation, the pay gap between women and men, and the prevailing of women in less paid sectors. The Committee expresses particular concern over the situation of women over 40 years of age, as well as the discriminatory attitude towards pregnant women on the labour market. The Committee is also concerned about the lack of attention given to policies that support the division of jobs and family responsibilities between women and men. It is an accurate finding in the opening part of this policy proposal, which assesses the fact that women’s continued growth in unemployment is responsible for a number of factors, including, first of all, the resistance of employers to hire women who have or might have maternal obligations. This is why such mechanisms should be developed that will undoubtedly reduce the resistance of employers to the least possible measure. I am not sure that the measure proposed by this national policy will achieve a more significant success in overcoming this resistance, and it is said among other things, an empirical survey will be carried out, an identification of the standard of discrimination in the employment of women and a code on the employment of women within companies and interested organisations. I'm not quite sure that this code will significantly change the position of employers when it comes to female employment. Personally, I believe that the most effective measure will be to impose sanctions on those employers who in any way carry out gender-based discrimination. Furthermore, employees are not sufficiently aware of their rights and the way they can seek the protection of their rights and, if they are familiar, often do not have enough courage to enter an open conflict with the employer because they do not have too much confidence in the functioning of the rule of law and are aware that power and influence are still on the part of employers. It sounds good when under point 2.4.3. says it will ensure the speedy launch of procedures as well as effective and timely satisfaction in cases of sexual discrimination in employment and/or at work. Such a strategic measure sounds good but knowing the slowness and inefficiencies of our courts, I am not sure whether such a proposed measure is feasible. When it comes to violence against women, there is primarily talk of domestic violence and violence in the workplace is not a word. So, women are seen exclusively as mothers and housewives, and the fact is that women face various forms of violence and abuse at work, and therefore national policies should also highlight these forms of violence in the proposal for promoting gender equality. It turns out, given everything that has been done to combat domestic violence, that a woman is more protected in the family than in the workplace. One of the problems is also underdeveloped different services that would enable women to adjust their private and professional lives more easily. For many families, mangers and kindergartens are unreachable due to the full capacity and too long waiting lists. This national policy says that new preschool programmes and services for different user groups will be planned, etc. What does the term "plan" mean? It seems to me that it's a little bit of a general notion because we can plan a lot of things, but the question is whether or not what we're planning and realising is going to happen. I think that such a general term is not a place in a document that should represent a strategic framework for the taking of different activities or when it is said it will be considered. So it is said that the introduction of tax reliefs will be considered, etc. I think the term will be considered in this context in general and unclear. What does that mean, will such measures be realized or not? Surely, the key role in developing stereotypes and the problem of education is very little, but given that I am running out of time at the end I would just say that I will support this National Gender Equality Policy proposal regardless of all its shortcomings and the answer to the question whether there is real political will for these proposed measures to be implemented very quickly when we adopt the 2007 budget when we will see how much funding for individual projects in that budget and provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72856	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72857	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality, colleagues and colleagues! ... Chief, I'm sorry. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There is no minister and vice president of the government, the same person who drew attention to it as a representative. But I guess it's not that interesting, especially since there's no cameras after 15 hours, so it doesn't matter what we're discussing here. You see, when she was black in 1958... Coming back tired from work to a bus that was still in America since the reign of apartheid was divided for both men and women, of course and among them, she was so tired as to sit in the first seat and refused to move the white man who entered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why she was put in jail and sentenced, but the Supreme Court changed that legal practice and ruled in her favor. And it was more worth that move than tons and tons of material written about both apartheid and later on about inequality or equality. We're discussing this paper here today, this document. This is the third national policy to promote gender equality in which in such an abstract way, we generally say it is a real surprise and then we are surprised, here individuals wonder that the Ombudsman does not give absolute support to such an act and on the basis of which it must act. And how will her work or efficiency be evaluated here in the Assembly? So on what grounds? What can she do here where the goal is please, where the goal is to improve something and the means is to improve? Or, violence against women on page 47. "The implementation of measures from the national strategy will be implemented and monitored.". How are you gonna do that? So it's gonna be fun. So the asset and target one verb and possibly a few nouns and some attributes. Very little, very weak and very bad. But you don't need to know that too much and expect it from those who now find that in our society women are therefore, in 2006, that a woman is discriminated against, that she is underpaid, that she is almost poorly represented in the world of work, that violence against a woman is a big problem. Violence against a woman is a political problem. But when we SDP women talked about the problem in the 1990s, then the HDZ colleagues told us that we were women destroyers of the family and without national interest because we talked about men in our society beating women and that at that time in the wartime, macho sons were still hoarding on their own mothers. Unseen events that have not been recorded in our practice of crime until the 1990s. But it's good to talk about this problem now, but it's not enough. It is insufficient because this is already the final time, especially after everything that has been done in the normative sense since 2000. Let us remember that for the first time then gender equality was raised to constitutional level and a whole series of laws and institutions were established. And now you should see how these laws are implemented and what's the obstacle of being misimplemented or not being able to implement this abstraction and the generality at the level of the moaning are somehow fixed problems but there is no concrete measure. When it comes to certain specific things about how to do them, let's say, about how to improve the awareness of preventing infectious sexual diseases and transmitted, a concrete measure would be what has long been promised here by certain members of the government but between many promises it has become forgotten because one promise is not fulfilled, and that promise comes a new promise to introduce sexual education in schools. But it's not here, and it's the only concrete measure of these things. Here is an example of how this should be done to make serious thoughts and, of course, to have and to implement them, and then to provide the means. Well, my colleague Martic saw, and we'll see from these abstract things that she intends to do right in the state budget in certain programmes. But as a general rule, it doesn't bind anyone alive. And that is why this is indeed the kind of national policy proposal that is surprising, even for small abilities and for small ambitions. Very little. If we look at what is proposed by some heads, then it is something that is so entirely and illogical, and also the national policy proposal itself, and which bears the name for promoting gender equality, it is one that kind of discriminates. So even though gender equality is a constitutional category, we have a whole series of laws that are discriminatory without talking about implementation and practice. The sooner the new government sat down, the better it changed the Family Law. And derivated the definition of a new, modern definition of mother and re-established the Roman definition of mother of Roman law by denying the possibilities of reality that is happening in reality, which can happen. For example, she steals egg cells. What about the egg cell donation? It is, therefore, a woman is unequal but from her own station. Men were allowed that long ago in 1978. Here in Croatia the persistent Croatian government has a well-prepared law which has already been prepared for the departure of the government, this authority has provided it well as Minister Hebrang and then in a mysterious way strayed this good, excellent proposal, a modern proposal on medically assisted insemination. How can we speak and achieve gender equality if even today from the government from the most responsible places are heard messages that a woman has the right to choose, please alternatives will she work or will she stay home? And why doesn't a man have that choice? It's just that it's automatically perceived that he's the one who's the foster parent. And as long as we think about it, there's no equality, no reality, no reality and no seriousness, and then no effects on what we're talking about, and many colleagues here and from the SDP Club have pointed out one fundamental thing about equality. There is no equality with the best will and with the best laws if there is no economic liberation of a woman. But today a woman is especially a woman in the 21st century slave trade. And who gave him that? For example, many of our local communities who have freely given their premises, their lands in Zadar, trade chains, may not have as many Zagreb as there are in Zadar where women work for no pay. Weak and small. Ms. Minister, explaining the proposal, said there was no need to politicise here, and then, by the way, this is how Zagreb notes that it has such a budget, or budget as it has said, and not enough kindergarten. He says it's inadmissible. Well, you can probably see it then because 16 years of HDZ rule in Zadar, and in 16 years, only on the opposition initiative, they upgraded the 1st floor to a socialist kindergarten. That's probably legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72858	At a socialist kindergarten? ... Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72859	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, a colleague is often a good inspiration for correcting wrong allegations. One of the wrong allegations, I won't say offensive because it's not so bad, and it says one promise doesn't come true so a new promise is made. Since that's not true, it might be helpful for a fellow sketches, an autobiography sketch or a SDP monograph. And I ask you how many of these well-prepared laws you've had, and none of them you've accepted. Where is it that we finally get that material?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72860	Replica, a respected representative, Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72861	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to explain it one more time because apparently my esteemed colleague didn't understand why I asked the lawyer to give her mandate at the Parliament's disposal. Not because she did not accept the proposal submitted by the government but because she refused to participate in co-creation of the proposal, after which she submitted amendments and said the proposal was void. Therefore, for me it is neither well-intentioned nor in the interest of those who must defend nor contribute to the end of the work of this High House. When we talk about concrete measures, I will now try to open this national policy proposal and I will read 3.14: "A systematic education and professional training will be organised and will be carried out from the field of gender equality for all holders of educational and educational activities. Director of the Agency for Education and Education, Agency for Structural Education, Office for Gender Equality of the University in cooperation with others. Implementing period 2006 to 2010. That he needs something more concrete here. You're right only when you say we have to secure it now and we'll do it as your colleague said we'll see how we'll deal with it through, through a new budget. And you're also saying that the new government has taken over. It's not the new power of a colleague who sat down. The new power was democratically elected, by the majority will of the Croatian people and returned to the women and mothers what you took from them through the new Obital Law. She gave it back to them. What they had until 2000, the new government that sat down for you, brought back to the women and mothers what belonged to them. And I know at least two men, and I can, if I have to say their names and last names, who use maternity leave and are members of the HDZ, if that means anything in your life. And in the end, I have to admit that I didn't understand, Mr. President, I don't know if you, in the introduction of the black woman and the bus, don't you mention blacks and whites anywhere in this national program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72862	Yeah, yeah. Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72863	In the Croatian Parliament, we will be able to really talk about gender equality when you are not surprised that even one HDZ is on maternity rather than when it has to be legally. ... You see, in many Western European countries, it's quite common for the prime minister, for the defence minister to go on maternity leave, and here even for a woman to go on maternity leave, and even when she is, she can't live like this famous actress said she has to go to work because it's such a miserable fee. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And in terms of protection when you're talking about concrete measures, let's just say here with women and health, it's only about breast and uterus neck. These are the important organs of a woman, and only there is the concern of the state for the reproductive organs of a woman. Well, the woman is in the brain, in the head, she can function without both breast and uterus. And the greatest mortality of women is just like in men, it's hard in the world trend, precisely mortality because of cardiovascular diseases and brain disease, and there's no question about that here. Because according to this proposal, a woman is only a woman when she's of childbearing age. So this is all, this is just one small example of how the national policy proposal itself is somewhat not anal but is not absolutely on the trail of equality. Of course this is a big problem and it's a great mortality, but that's not all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72864	Please don't let your colleague interfere with laughter and ridicule. ... You can clap. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72865	Mr. President, I refer to article 214. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72867	counterpart Ingrid Anticevic in her debate thought and has the right to think that she puts women in a more favourable position with her debate. In her debate, she humiliated women like that, especially now responding to a replica, it seems that she has put us in a quota against which she is fighting and her statement, and especially you gentlemen colleagues who are from the profession, no woman has a spare organ, nor has a spare organ for one who you say only thinks about those organs. When you think about something, you speak for the law in the legal framework...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72868	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72869	Let me just have one more sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72870	I won't allow anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72871	There is something that can't be passed, which can be dignity, morality and respect can't be passed by any law or by a gender equality strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72872	Again for the reason I'm good, I won't give you a warning, because it's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure for the sake of goodness. ... I'm saying this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then don't react now. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why not stay? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So there's nothing left? ... Go ahead so there's nothing left. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72873	Just for a little while. Injury to Article 209 because a colleague corrects something I didn't say. I didn't say spare parts, I said reproductive parts, and that's these propagating parts. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72874	Peace. That's enough of that now. Enough! Order! All right, ladies, be even. People are equal, they're just more equal than each other. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72875	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, after these discussions, maybe we can calm things down a little bit and get back to the strategy. In Croatian society, there is definitely not enough knowledge about women's real position, so the problem is often treated wrongly. Many are of the opinion that men and women have the same rights which are essentially true, because none of our laws allow discrimination, but efforts in certain parts of society are visible to show that having equal rights does not automatically mean having an equal position. Discrimination of women is mostly indirect and difficult to identify. It comes from inherited conditions and economic inequalities that produce further inequalities. Once again in this House, we determine that we have the laws, strategies and policies that we are implementing today, or even worse to carry them out as we heard this morning, in the case of Soppenac, Magash, and everything under some lyrical cover we don't touch the judiciary. I can't get over it, that subject really bothers me. That the problem is not only Croatian but universal speeches and the fact that gender equality has been a key principle of the European Union since its beginning and is at the heart of the European social employment policy since the 59th year when Roman contracts contained a provision defining the right to equal pay for men and women. Using this legal framework of Roman contracts, the European Union adopted 13 directives on gender equality since the 1970s. They have ensured, among other things, equal access to jobs, perfecting and equal working conditions. The Directive also includes the right to equal pay and benefits, equal right to social security and equal right to maternity leave. Thus, the employment rate under these acts is equal in the economy process, the decision-making process, social, cultural and social life. However, despite the numerous actions of European paper policy, the situation differs significantly from real life, and I think that even the applicants here must acknowledge. The poorer representation of women on the labour market puts them at greater risk of poverty and social exclusion especially at an older age. Women are in a more unfavourable position when it comes to looking for work. The average unemployment rate for women in the European Union in 2004 was 10%, while for men it was 8.3%, despite the fact that it is precisely the right to equal pay, one of the basic European principles, women continue to earn still less than men. The proposal ahead gives us one strategic framework for implementing gender equality policy through various sectors, one of the most important sectors of human rights for women. The Syntagma itself points to inequality and we are really reluctant to use the fact that it is legitimate and necessary in discussing the position of women. Our main intention should be to increase the understanding and awareness of the specificity of women's rights within a wide range of human rights and to develop the spirit and principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. However, knowledge and respect for human rights in general, and in particular women's rights in Croatia as well as in other countries of former socialism are limited due to complex, historical, social and various other political reasons. In recent democracies, conservative state policy and aggressive nationalism, these rights continue to deny, and sometimes even threaten already acquired women's rights. Women try to return to the traditional roles of mothers and wives, and limit their rights and freedoms to the privacy of the family environment. The war that took place in these areas, which took place in these areas, has brought a new dimension of physical and psychological terror upon women and has dramatically worsened the material and social status of women. With the abuse of women in war, we also witness changes in the character of domestic violence, the increase in rape, psychological violence against women, the increase in prostitution and everything that follows the militarization of society. Women and children are rarely victimized in various ways, and their suffering and loss are rarely and misused. Unfortunately, we don't run any state statistics. The social and economic situation of women is drastically deteriorated thanks to inflation, social support restrictions and employment discrimination. In public, women's dignity should be promoted, women's integrity protected, and women's rights protected and promoted. It should also require the government's responsibility and encourage women to fight for their rights, to take the lead in society, and especially in making political decisions. It is necessary to monitor and take action with a view to affecting the legislation affecting women's rights. An important social sphere to pay particular attention to is equal opportunities on the labour market. In fact, significant problems are related to this issue from a high rate of unemployment of women to the fact that women generally receive fewer salaries than men even though they do the same work. That women earn less than men is a fact. The biggest difference occurs in air transport and the tobacco industry, at least in construction, and only in certain activities can women count on to earn at least equal or slightly more than men. For example, in the production of medical, precise and optical instruments and watches, land transport and some transport. The existing statistics reveal two things. First, they discover that women in principle have access to less paid jobs. And secondly, they're even harder to hire. The higher salaries of men in the air and tobacco industry stem from the fact that they perform better paid jobs in these activities, e.g. pilots and managers, while women remain less-paid stewardess and workers' jobs. We can also add a picture of what we look at every day by entering temples of consumeristic capitalism, in various shopping centers that are dangerous to all Croatian cities. Rows and rows of cash registers are full of overworked cashiers, and women are found in front of kilometers of food shelves. On the contrary, the pages, a business contribution to the press on the entry of a new trade chain or a business performance report are filled with images of men. The smallest pay gaps in construction are explained by the fact that these women are employed in the administration and in professional architectural and construction jobs. But we all know very well that it is a far smaller number of jobs than the total total of all jobs in the profession. As far as unemployment is concerned, he's been trying to get rid of what's been going on for a while now. The women's entrepreneurship that I've already replicated today, a term that today is beyond many men, but also women. In fact, the phrase "female entrepreneurship" is a truly strange phrase in society that declares gender equality values. What kind of "female entrepreneurship" is that? How can sex even be a criterion of classification of such economic terms? Is there a "male entrepreneurship" and how does it differ from a female? These are just some of the most frequently asked questions on this subject. At first glance, we may actually sound strange and strange, but a little bit more closely when we think about it, it really comes to the meaning of the very phrase "female entrepreneurship" and how? Through the process. Namely, imagine a woman trying to enter the world of entrepreneurs. Otherwise, the mother is two children, a housewife, a 10-year-old figure is a stereotype, so-called. An honest woman, highly educated, after getting married has one child and another child and leaves a well-paid or middle-paid become a state service. And then she leaves her job and starts taking care of her family, kids grow up, she tries to find a job, she decides on entrepreneurship, she comes to the bank, she wants to borrow and see the devil. There's nothing to guarantee. So very simple. That's the only part of the term "female entrepreneurship". The job, therefore, is very difficult to begin with, of course, the consent of the husband. The husband, of course, asks to do all the work she had done before and to get the job started. However, it should not be considered that the above example is characterized. He's a real possibility. The statistical fact is that among the younger highly educated population there are several women, under the age of 24 there are as many as 65% compared to only 35% of men. The only question is, where do they go? The problem of women unemployment is not just the economic problem of the state. This is about a kind of violence against women, because violence isn't just physical and psychological. It is even worse and very often, but significantly weaker and economically. And it's very closely linked to other forms of violence. The fact that almost 97% of the total property in marriage is prescribed in the husband’s name is alarming information for all who are aware of the consequences of such legal regulation. Although material things, you will say, are not the most important, they determine the future and security of the person. The lack of any significant value has a significant impact on the decision to leave a bully or not. Many women are so nearly forced to repay their material well - being in an inhumane way, that is, through their mental, mental, and extreme physical health. As long as that is the case, there can be no talk of improving gender equality, no matter what policies we promote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72876	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72877	Well, I think my colleague said what's most important in the whole thing. That no state with the highest budget can ensure gender equality unless economic violence against women is eliminated. That kind of violence, it's dominant. It is even supported in some forms, or it is propagated by staying at home, thinking that it will be better to implement the most innovative policy. That's wrong, because the sources of every type of violence are precisely the economic addiction of a woman always on a man, whether about a father, or later on about a brother, if she's not married if they're in a joint household, it was in these elderly households that saw parents or later if she married her husband. So, and then when a woman suffers violence, physical violence then comes, she doesn't often, it's already a singing story that we know. And this picture that I was forbidden to show today, I'm not talking for any propaganda purposes, because we're not here to theoreticalize. We're here to talk about concrete things. That's enough of theorizing and nagging. I think we all agreed that violence exists, that the economic threat of a woman exists, that's why we don't differ here at all. But how do you get out of it? Defining the situation isn't enough. How do things improve? They don't even work with protocols that are good, which is certainly to commend the authorities for bringing these protocols. But here's how the protocols...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72878	Don't do that, fellow...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72879	But I know it's hurting you, and it's hurting me to look at it. But it's not a picture. Mr. President, please, allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72880	But you can't publicly show the photo, you can't show it in public, you can't show it in public, you can't show it in public. Comrade Antičević, understand that. You cannot show and mention a photo of one person in this context. My colleagues, the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72881	But she's looking for it, don't you think I'd do it...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72882	Don't. A colleague of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain, reply to the replica. Thank you very much. Don't do that, hold on...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72883	Thank you very much. Here's just an answer to my colleague Anticevic, of course it seems to me that the key to this whole problem is precisely economic independence and what I would like to see in this strategy, and I didn't see that we're not talking about the labour market just as a labour market, but that we're talking about economic violence. I didn't see it in this strategy, and I'd love to see it every year, and at the worst every two years, a report on how we're working on this strategy and that we can talk about it here in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72884	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72885	Thank you. Before I say anything about this national gender equality policy, I would like to personally thank all the colleagues who took part in the debate on this issue because discrimination between women and gender equality is not a purely female story, it is of course concerning both men and without their help and cooperation it will not even be resolved. The fact is, we've been unequal and unequal since birth. Is it because we're traditionally society without the intention of getting into grades about whether it's good or not or for some other reason, but it's the fact that in one way we're expecting the birth of a male, and in another way a female child, that we're raising them in some way, that, unfortunately, we're preparing them to act like they are, means intolerant and not respecting the needs of another part of the population of this country and the planet? The fact is, and the colleagues said that, many said, the main issue is that women own only 3% of the property in their possession, that the unemployed have the most women, and also those who are lucky to work, after answering unpleasant questions, are underpaid. Where there's money and where power is usually no women, at least not enough. There was an interesting discussion yesterday on the board on the subject when it was said: well, you know women are less paid and then it's not logical for a man who has a higher salary to quit his job and take maternity leave. And that's true, but there's a recurring story about whether they're older coke or egg. And is the problem with that and why women are less paid, and they shouldn't be. And would it be good for the fathers to take up their share of responsibility for raising children, to take up their share of household jobs, and then we could really start talking about some equality. The woman does not have enough politics at all levels, where decisions are actually made that could change the situation and it is said that, we would like the woman in politics to have more. Here, I asked, I begged them to go to the lists, and they won't. Look at the wonders, women wouldn't want to go where they'd be in a position to do something. I don't really believe it. Don't let it get to me. So far, women have done far more difficult jobs through history and family than participation in political and public life. Of course, if the other party took over their share of responsibility or when society would work hard and enable service and assistance when a woman does or does other social work. I really believe that both father and mother are equally important in the life of a child, that family, a healthy family is the foundation of society, that is good and necessary, but not one that will be held together exclusively because there is an economic dependence on those who are often victims, meaning women and children or children. The police are acting much better than ever before, the protocol is being conducted, the abusers are being reported and then we get to our famous judiciary that's pretty sensitive to our abusers and abusers. 'Cause where the poor molester's gonna go if he gets out of the house. Please, I'm really wondering where he's going. And I especially wonder what will happen when it is removed, and he returns home to the woman who dares to report him. Where are those anonymous houses? Where is the money for women and children who want to leave and who literally save their lives by leaving? I don't see it. Such houses can be counted in our country, I think, on the fingers of one hand. Excuse me. But, as I always say, it's not worth treating the symptom, and now I think we should actually solve the causes of the problem, and I think they're in a bad life, first of all. With bad life and indifference, both men and women are at risk. We are frustrated with the war that we have survived, the stress has left the consequences, it is normal and natural but it is not normal and natural in which some people solve their frustrations and problems. It has been said somewhere in discussions today that this national policy will lead to the redistribution of economic power. I'm afraid in this document, I can't see anywhere. And I wish I did. Here there are 30 praises worth of goals that we all support at the declarative level. No one here will say that they want a woman to be discriminated against, that a woman has poor health care, that children don't have proper education and everything they need, but when we get to practice, then you actually see where we are and who we are. Yesterday on the board, the D.A. proposed some amendments that didn't go through. Mr. Nenadic is questioning the right of a woman not to speak now about an institution that she represents to change her mind. Even if she hadn't participated in this document by now, she took the last moment to improve it in her opinion. And I don't see anything controversial about it. As I see nothing controversial in any way, Mr. Nenadić is experiencing this document or anyone else. That's why I don't think it's good to question whether and how the D.A.'s gonna do their duty because she said this document was bad. Mr. Nenadic, here I am asking myself and you, does this mean that any of us who finds that any law is not really the best or that he does not like has the right and does not adhere to it? I don't think that's the case. That the laws and documents adopted by this House are binding on everyone. So we shouldn't doubt anyone's work for reason of opinion. There'll be a chance to talk about it. If this document is so good that it is believed that it will indeed solve the problem of gender equality, I do not see why, at the committee session, the conclusion on Mr Kapraljevic's proposal was rejected, that the Government once a year or in two years submitted a report on where it came from with the implementation of this policy. Why? I think that would be very good and that's just one logical conclusion, because if we're all really interested in solving this problem, then I guess we're also interested in what happens after a year or two. At least I'd be interested in seeing it. It's an interesting fact, for example, that illustrates this whole story further that we couldn't agree on a committee to clarify this government text. It's tragic for me, but unfortunately it is. If we can't agree on such benign things, then we'll be around some far more important ones. I'm afraid that below the declarative level where we're all equal actually breaks through our traditional education, the subconscious of what a woman is discriminated against, that she's in a poor position on the labour market, that she's not enough in public and political life, but that's in some way her natural state. Well, since that's the case, let him do the birthing and raising of children and not get me wrong, I think it's one of the most beautiful and noblest jobs in the world and far underrated. And if we want to and if we're traditionalists, then we need a healthy woman, a healthy individual, as well as a healthy society. Well, here, if we look at the budget. in the execution, says the humanisation of hospital treatment of births and children predicted 30 thousand kunas, spent 0, preserving and improving reproductive health young people 70 thousand kunas, realising 0, preserving and improving the reproductive health of women 65 thousand kunas, realising 9,000 and 100, preventing and early detection of breast cancers 250 thousand kunas, realising 7 thousand 290, prevention of malignant diseases 500 thousand kunas, realisation 0, etc. If we support it financially in this way and this document is clear how it will end and if we support it in the budget we are not quite sure that it will still be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72886	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72887	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's absolutely wrong that the number of abusers is getting bigger, they're getting more and more frustrated with bad life. So how do you explain so many women's shelters in Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands, how do you explain so many crimes in America and elsewhere? So that's just what happens to us, is here we live badly, so these other guys probably kick and kill women from the pastime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72888	Replica, the esteemed representative of Juraj Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72889	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, the replica refers to, in part of the exhibition, most agreeable colleagues Ljubica Brdarić, as well as other colleagues and colleagues. I think we've been through one eternal question today, one eternal relationship between a man and a woman. We know that from the Old Testament, and when it comes to certain jobs that anyone can do, etc., we say in Dalmatia that it would seem to send that mouse malt. ... However, even when it comes to relationships, domestic violence I will now read something from the thought of St. Paul from one of the series of his letters when he spoke of men and women and it would be a cure for today's society and it means this way: "Husbands love your wives, women love your husbands." I think that would be an answer to domestic violence and that only in a healthy and good relationship between a man and a woman can the issue be resolved, and otherwise it will be discussed today and perhaps in 10, 20 years and in the Croatian Parliament as well as in other parliaments. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72890	Love your neighbor. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ljubica Brdarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72891	I have no objections to this part of kissing, I must say, but I fear that the Bible will not help us and solve today’s problems. It was written at a time when life was completely different and thought in other ways. If we followed all 10 of God’s commandments, we would have no objection but then we would not have to discuss any negative matters at all. This would be an ideal society, which, unfortunately, is not and will never be. Abuse in domestic violence is a complex problem, among other things happening in all countries of the world. It's not just our invention of poverty, alcoholism, drugs, diseases, there's a variety of species on all sides, and not just with us, and that's the problem people will face, I'm afraid, as long as the world is and forever. There is violence among children in schools, there is violence in the family, there is violence in the workplace and there is a lot of types of verbal, economic, emotional, physical and whatever you want, and I'm afraid that St. Paul won't handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72892	Second replica, the respected representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72893	Thank you, Mr. President. So now I'm going to have to ask myself, as my dear colleague Sobol asked, were we colleagues Brdarić at the same board meeting? So now you're telling us that we haven't been able to make a deal and that it's tragic for you. So if we can't agree on a tragedy right away. And on the other hand, if the lady who has to protect what we bring here, call, monitor and who has to report to this very House, she can change her mind. So let's let it be, if someone thinks that way one way or another, that we lose at least trust in him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72894	Reply to the replica esteemed representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72895	The office took part in the work, and the Ombudsman took advantage of yesterday's session, whether it was under quotes or not, but she took the last chance to fix this document with her contribution to her opinion, and I am if I say tragically I am correcting myself. It is tragic that the Committee on Gender Equality cannot conclude that the text of the Government will be improved in that part that we who are so proud of our Croatian language are truly speaking it. That's what my colleague Kapraljevic was talking about, so it didn't go away. If such benign suggestions don't pass, it's not hard to figure out how any other will go, and I really find that sad and you can't change my mind about it. I think we're too small a people to afford the luxury of disagreeing on so many different issues and allegedly having common goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72896	The Honorable Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72897	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the head of the Gender Equality Office! Let me first of all say that I am looking forward to today's debate on this subject, regardless of which it is occasionally and bitter, sometimes semi-economy, and it has taken a little while and lengthened off, but in its essence it shows that all the phenomenal forms of discrimination are gender and especially women are given public rights despite the still high degree of traditionalism and conservativeism in our society. And what I'd like to say, so maybe even stand up to everyone else and their grades, I think this degree of traditionalism that we've had can never actually return. We have done in the last five, six years, especially no matter which governments on the scene are a major step forward, a strong step in this area, especially through constitutional and legislative regulation and in this respect we have broken a barrier that stems from traditional and conservative society. Look, some of the topics that are publicly spoken of today, in our media, in our press, and in our parliament, in the units of local self-government, it was once a shame to talk about because everything in the family had to remain and no harm should remain hidden anywhere in the family or in the family if it was domestic violence, especially that led to discrimination between people on any basis or on the basis of gender. Secondly, what I would like to say is that I am saddened by the fact that this National Policy proposal on promoting gender equality from the aspect of its analysis shows that it is in fact an accurate assessment of the Council of Europe when it says that "de jure" in many transition countries has reached agreement on the elimination of gender discrimination but that it is not yet there and that it is still very present. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you know we need to national policy not to talk about measures, not statistics, we should have done that already. We need to talk about how we will ensure that every function, every job and other professional duty is available independently of gender equality according to abilities and qualifications so that we can do so. It was inadmissible and it was heard today in our Parliament that we are going with national policy in that direction to reduce the inequality among other things over several years so that the smaller percentage is those who receive less by gender, say for their equally done work, provided service or done product. Well, that's inadmissible. My colleagues, it's discrimination not only by gender but by the same work effect. And it must not happen, this parliament must not agree with it, it must take measures to ensure the availability of each function and for the equal work done, the equally provided service must ensure equal pay. Unfortunately, we have the fact that it's not like that now. That is why we must take all measures both on legislative and executive terms to actually eliminate such things. Third, I must say that I expected that the National Programme for Gender Equality Policy would have its own political dimension, but I did not expect that after six, seven years of active work by this Parliament, government, office, etc. that he has his own political question. Unfortunately, he still has a political issue today, and this parliament must react strongly to that. Not only do we have in this program national, look, this is a program. And what if we had received a full report on the achievement of gender equality? And we in the program say that there is discrimination both by sex and by nationality when it comes to Roma women and Roma. Well, that is inadmissible, which offends the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, thus insulting the Constitutional Law on Equality, on Minority, which offends gender equality laws, thus insulting the Constitution itself and from the aspect of a positive approach to gender equality and from the aspect of negative or gender discrimination ban and also based on national membership. Be careful, this is a political issue and the Parliament must respond seriously to this and ask all authorities, executive institutions and other actually entities, and even our associations, to give them full political support, parliamentary support to approach to eliminate these things. It simply cannot be and must not be acceptable and must not simply be overcome. In this context, this program may need to be complemented. I have to say that the measures that are proposed, and mostly the measures, I support. But there's no politics. And this programme bears the title of the National Promotion Policy Proposal and... What's that about economic policy? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are the segments of economic policy that will ensure availability in the economic sense of each, managerial and any other work and management functions independently of the gender difference of all candidates for that part in order to actually be fully equal? What is it that will be taken, what measures? Not only legal but also economics that will ensure that for equal work, equal service is secured equal pay. Also in culture and social protection, of course in sport, entertainment and all other segments. Fifth, you know how to talk about making a project that's good. We'll get new knowledge, we'll get new analysis, we'll determine our condition, and so on. But that's not going to ensure national policy. We need to see in an educational sense what it is that we should ensure through the institutions of regular education that our population is educated for full gender equality in the Republic of Croatia. Fifthly, we need to start talking on a legislative and practical plan to ensure that sub-represented sex is actually equal in public procurement processes through access to public services and public affairs. From local to state level. Sixth, we need to talk clearly and openly about issues, you know, a little bit even ugly sounds human rights to women. And what are human rights that are not female? And we need to raise these questions, those rights for the simple reason we won't admit to ourselves that we are not implementing our own Constitution and the constitution protected by human rights... prohibitions of discrimination and especially at sexual level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, and at the same time constitutional and legal affirmation of gender equality in access to economic and social aspects. Therefore, if that is the case, we have to get a whole series of policy proposals that will ensure that through the legislative part such policies are also provided for. That through the implementation of the measures and in the implementation of the laws, and then possibly sanctions for non-compliance with such laws, we ensure the implementation of these laws and such policies and, of course, control and measures that we will take and possibly what we do if something in the system is wrong through the feedback system. We didn't do that part. In that part, this programme is practically incomplete and should be complemented. It should be complemented. The seventh thing I have to say is, you know, the question is that we can't possibly get into a position that is such a phenomenal form based on gender discrimination against domestic violence and gender inequality in the family through the workplace, across the place of life to the place of performing public and political and social functions we actually have that show where the bodies come out and go out. From, I don't know, law enforcement agencies over I don't know, lawyers for gender equality, offices, associations and so on, and at the same time we have such a mild approach to the other side that makes such measures. A minimum of what must not happen, must not actually be sanctioned for perpetrators of criminal offences and offences or possible criminal acts, and at the very least not to provide him with education, so as not to repeat it again. We must begin to act among other things and through a preventive way to actually warn all those who will in such a way insult rights based on gender inequality, in fact that this must no longer happen because if this happens, the social community will side with the damaged and will actually punish and sanction such rights rigorously and in such a segment will do so. There is a lack of policy and programme to take, so if necessary in this segment and what on the legislative plan to do to make these issues better, to amend and supplement these issues and possibly regulate them in the way that they will, these instruments. Of course, I look forward to any progress in this area, but I think it is very difficult to speak only in the field of regulation and regulation at the same time not to take into account the instruments necessary for the proper implementation of that regulation. From education through prevention to sanctions. And in such a situation, I am in favour of perhaps delaying the possible vote of this programme by the end of this session, and that then the proposer may consider eventually that some more of the segments of the team are being prepared for a new strategy of economic development, which is actually preparing a new strategy of culture, because this national policy couldn't even talk about economic policy from the aspect of gender equality when the strategy has not yet been adopted. It is only necessary when it is adopted to install it, to install it and then bring one, one, a national policy programme to promote gender equality that will really be in the next 10 years. However, in that segment, these measures should, of course, be prepared and then presented as guidelines, which should be taken on a legislative, budgetary and any other financial plan for the implementation of these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72898	Thank you. IDS club, five-minute debate. Dear Representative Damir Cain, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72899	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, we are here. Page 6 defines these critical areas, and it is said among other things: "Delivering more information on the position of women to members of national minorities and women with disabilities. Ensuring rapid, consistent and effective application of anti-discrimination legislation, the implementation of the Law on protection against domestic violence, the national strategy for protection against violence. Removing stereotypes in curricula and programs. Increase women's representation in local government structures. Strengthening efforts to fight the trafficking of women, girls," and so on and so on. The truth on this page 20, it is said, is that the alarmingly low proportion of women in local government behaviour in Croatia is only 11 mayors, and the increase in the total number of councils following local elections in May 2005 is followed by the distribution shown below in 2001, and now they say: "The share of the county congregations in 2001 was 13.4%, now 14.5%. City Council members are 14%, now 15.7%, members of the 7% council, now 8.4%." And he says, "A huge inequality of women's political participation in certain congregations, counties is noticeable. For example, only 2.4% in Sibenik-Kninska, 4.9% in Varazdinska and up to 27% in Istria and Međimurje County and the City of Zagreb." Now what can we conclude from that? It's clear. It's not good, but here we see it's still moving. However, if you took gentlemen and opportunities in other activities, for example in the media, you would see in NGOs that power in this country is slightly different. I'm not talking about associations that "note bene" many have even bigger budgets than parties, let's release HDZ, SDP but what do I mean? It's not power in political parties, it's media and capital. The truth is that the owners of these media are mostly men, but women are the ones who, let's say today, determine what is to be written about and how to write. I'm clearly looking forward to it, but our society isn't exactly how some might want to show it. And so much of this assessment on page 27 where the doubt is said that analyses also show that the media in Croatia do not have a gender sensitive policy, that the portraiting of women is sexist, that there is no awareness of... democracy, confirming gender inequality both in qualitative and quantitative ways of showing women and men etc. etc. What can we conclude? It's not good, but it's moving. That's actually the point. We support clearly everything that leads to the abolition of any division in society, either by national or by religious, or by political orientation. The truth society is divided, but it is the same thing in one France, Germany, Italy, Austria, the Czech Republic and Slovakia at least when it comes to jobs or entrepreneurs, but this is not resolved by gentlemen either by declarations or by national policy proposals to promote gender equality but only by the labour market. There is a clear division into the company of work. It won't change soon. In one of my Buzets where unemployment is less than 3%, it's not a dominant problem, in Požega-Slavon County we talked about it 7 days ago where unemployment is 20.9% that's the problem. Well, then, in one Buzet, all the front desks are your wives, so then we can say that that other population is somehow less represented. All in all Croatian society today is less xenophobic, let's say, I dare say that from one French, Swiss, Danish, and even Swedish, regardless of what ten years have passed since the war. Come on, people are nationally oriented extremely, but they may be more tolerated today than in many members of the European Union. We have a problem, but it's moving for the better. So we welcome this proposal and we want to say that women in 2006 dominate both in education and in health and in the judiciary and in the media, not in politics, not in the economy, but I said power is with the economy where men are dominant and in the media, where women are slowly prevailing. That's one Croatian specific person I wanted to say, we can't get away from it and we just need to admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72900	That's right. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on. Proposal for a national policy to promote gender equality 2006-2010 I am voting on the national policy proposal. Please engage. I would like to vote on the motion for this decision. Well, you can't hear your colleague saying, "You can't hear it because a dozen colleagues and colleagues are constantly creating a forest curtain, as they will then be heard." I'm supposed to rip my throat out of it now. Why does a few people talk all the time, all the time? I'm the one who's bringing order, right? Yeah. I am voting on the proposal for a national policy to promote gender equality in 2006 to 2010. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 77 votes for, 5 abstentions, a national policy adopted to promote gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72903	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs and gentlemen of the MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and this bill would like to point out once again that it is one of the most important values for respecting the will of citizens, the will of Croatian voters and therefore wants to ensure that this will is respected and that none of the individual schemes or pre-eminent resignations can question the composition of representative bodies and take away the mandate of those chosen by Croatian voters. Therefore, after the first reading of this law, following the numerous variations proposed by us, we have decided to make clear and precise solutions, which is that the resignation of the council member must be certified by the public notary and thus unequivocally determined by his will to hand over the term of office to the deputies, that the resignation may not be very old but no later than 8 days from the date of the confirmation submitted to the representative body, and in order to avoid crowds at the meetings of the representative bodies themselves, that resignation must be accepted in the professional services no later than three days before the appointment of the meeting of the representative body. In this way, we want to respect the will of the elected councilman unless he wants to act on his duty, but we also want to clearly and unequivocally install mechanisms to ensure that this will is made public and that it is not questionable. Furthermore, another important provision of this law, which was incorporated on the basis of the initiative of a number of representatives of national minorities, is that the government, in order to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, implemented additional elections, provided material and professional assumptions for the work of the councils of national minorities and representatives of national minorities, but in order to further encourage the interest of Croatian voters to go to elections for the selection of national minorities and representatives of national minorities, we respected the opinion made at a number of expert meetings and came from the representatives of national minorities themselves, that elections were held together with regular local elections. We have therefore incorporated this provision into the law. Since the intention of the legislator is thoroughly discussed to exclude the bianco resignations from Croatian legal life and that the law has been supported in the first reading, I believe that we will now receive support as a final draft of the law and that also through the adoption of this law, legal certainty will be strengthened at local level and will be part of the addition and electoral system, as well as the local self-government system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72904	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? For the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? President, Honorable Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72905	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 64th session held on 26 September 2006 discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 3 August 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the final proposal for a majority of votes. The Committee also states that elections for members of the Council of National Minorities and representatives of national minorities should be made in order to show that these elections and elections for members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government differ with regard to the electoral system. After the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority of votes, 6 votes in favour and 2 votes against the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72906	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? For human rights and the rights of national minorities? I'm opening a debate. SDP MPs' club, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72907	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The SDP representative club will not support the adoption of this Act. There's a whole series of reasons why we won't and we can't do that. First of all, we can call this law, the law on the time of the sale of council mandates. This Law does not regulate anything but, therefore, I am talking about Article 1 which is relevant to and which is concerning this amendment to the Law. This law simply regulates only a time in which it is possible to correct the will of the citizens they expressed in the elections for local self-government units. This Law does not seem to be what we all expected to do, which is to prevent the correction of the will expressed by citizens in the elections for local self-government units. This part of the Law we could almost put into the Law of Trade when we would regulate our working hours on Sundays, so we could say, "Okay, you can't, or you want to buy citizens on Sundays at the store, and you can buy council mandates up to 8 days before holding a session of the representative body of the unit of local self-government. Or you can then raise the price and trade it within 5 days before the meeting of the representative body, the session of the unit of local self-government because until then it is practical to show interest, and from 8 to 3 days until the holding of the session is the establishment of prices. Therefore, at the earliest 8 days before the meeting, you may go to the public notary and verify your written resignation, and then you must submit, that written resignation no later than 3 days before the meeting of the representative body. What does that mean? You just go to the notebook, verify your resignation, and then you say I've confirmed my resignation, and I'm raising my price. And I'm raising my price. And if I reach a satisfactory price, then I will four days before the session is held I will withdraw the paper, and if not, then maybe I will deliver that paper. Is it then, as the Law prescribes, that resignation and entry into force or that we will have different interpretations on the need to meet a representative body, commission or commission to verify the mandate, so as to determine that this council mandate has ceased, etc., etc. What if three days before the session, most council members resign? Then there's no session, so there's no three days before the session, gentlemen, because it's de facto necessary to access the disbanding of the representative body. So that's all the questions you just don't talk about here. But does anyone else believe or doubt that from today or Friday, or this Friday, we will probably not vote next Friday, from next Friday until 17 May 2009 there will still be trade terms? Or is the store over? If the trade is over, we do not care what kind of law this law will be, or should not be passed. If it's not finished, someone really wants to regulate the working time of the council's mandates. But what about the things that have happened so far? So what about the trade deal from Karlovac? The government has been announced to fight corruption. It comes to the Parliament of the Law on the financing of political parties which excludes the possibility of one party financing another party through a commercial contract. What about Karlovc? Well, there's one party paying for councilman's services from another party. Is that allowed, until the law is passed? Maybe it's legal, but is it moral? It's not moral. What about all those stores that have taken place in other local self-government units so far? Are we going to see that through our fingers and say no, which is what it was. We'll be serious now. From now on, we'll be honest. But we'll only be fair three days before the council, and up to three days before the council is allowed. Up to eight days before the council is more than allowed. Between 3 days and 8 days, the HAMFA will be involved, so the HAMFA will regulate the balance of prices. You should regulate someone like we have on the stock market a regulatory body that will determine the balance of prices in that public offer of council mandate when the councilman goes to the public notebook and signs the paper. It would be a good idea if we had, that maybe that's what the office does as someone where it could be brought and offered for council terms. Secondly, we believe that since the council mandate is not binding on anyone that it is also not in any way possible to restrict the availability of that mandate. One cannot say that eight days before something that may not even be held must occur. Or that some three days before something that may not even be held, because I repeat if most council members sign their resignations and hand them over three days before the session of the representative's body, there is no session. Therefore, we have nothing to count on these three days. We don't have anything to count on these three days. We don't, because there's no session here, it's said before the session. The seat can't be held if there's no councilman. He can't. Session...... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, there is no event, gentlemen. No, no. We can do it again like that... But where did you get this, where did you get so much mistrust from the council? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about the MPs? When do we resign? When do we stand it? Do we have to go to the public notebook eight days before the submission? Is it three days before we hand over to the President of the Parliament, before the session, we have to hand it over to the President of the Parliament or order it? No, I don't. They're doing wonders now. We as representatives don't have to, and we as councilmen because some of us or some of you are councillors in the representative bodies of the local self-government unit, you have a limit at your disposal. So why do we trust Drazen Bosnjak as a councilman, and we do not trust Drazen Bosnjakovic as an agent, I apologize for taking you as an example. ... Or me personally, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What about the leaders of the local self-government unit? When do they resign? Do they have eight days before the session? Do they have to go to the public notebook? Everything is absolutely illogical. Therefore, we suggest that this law should be withdrawn in this section as far as Article 1 is concerned. We don't have to bring it in at all. I hope the one who thought to trade, to tear it up. What I expected from the Office of State Administration, from Uskok, from the police, from the State's Attorney's office, to investigate cases so far, not to mutilate them. Now let's not legalize something that we've been talking about here is immoral and let's not give you an alibi for those of you who think you're trading in the future. And in the future, if it's traded under this law, if it's passed like this and traded in it, it'll be immoral. It will be within the law, but it will remain immoral. There's no need to dress, to end the voter's will. There is no need to introduce additional restrictions on the rights of councilors assigned to them. And here you still have some situations regarding the relations of independent councilmen, councilmen who have been elected from the party lists, etc. Thus, we absolutely believe that this law as such does not have any need to be adopted in Article 1. Articles 2 and 3 can be adopted, however, the question is whether there are needs and changes, to adopt Articles 2 and 3, when we are almost certain that new legislation will be adopted, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, the Law on the Elections of Local Self-Government Units before the next local elections. The law could potentially refer to some of the extraordinary elections that will take place by 2009. There's no need to bring it. Absolutely nothing. We'll discuss the Law on Local Self-Government today or tomorrow. In June, we discussed the Law on the Direct Choice of Mayors. We have absolute confusion in local self-government legislation. You have laws you can't apply, you have laws that have been passed and you can't apply them because no other laws have been passed, you have laws that will enter into force in 2009, you have this law, it's an absolute confusion. Let's make a deal, let's settle the issue of local self-government in the frameworks by 2009 and let's make a new legislation behind 2009. So let's not get the law together like that, 16 times it's over for something where we need an excuse for immoral acts that we've done since the last election to this day. There's no need. There is, for example, a need to establish that elections for the councils of local committees take place when elections take place and elections for representative bodies of local self-government units, and even though we talked about it here in the Parliament, the promoter did not, he did not think to sign it. That would make sense. It would be logical, therefore, that since the councils of local committees are also elected in the same way as the representative bodies of the local self-government units are elected, elections for the local committees' councils are held on the day of the election. But we don't have that in the proposal. So you have absurdities to hold direct elections for the councils of local committees throughout Croatia this year. First, an extremely small number of people go to that election. Secondly, the costs are the same as the elections for the representative body, because you have the same number of polling stations, the same procedure you have to conduct, etc. And that's something to do, but we can finally do it all over again in one system law for 2009. And until then let's really fix what needs to be fixed in the legislation. Let's talk today about the Law on the Communist Economy, so gentlemen, so the prime minister and minister announced here that a new Law on the Communist Economy will be proposed by the end of 2004. No sign of that law. And we here today are going to discuss until who knows what time to be able to trade council terms and we're going to give jobs to the public notebooks, maybe we could predict that this confirmation of the resignations has a special tariff, some higher tariff, so it has to be sprayed a little bit when, emptying your wallet when you're going to verify that mandate. Therefore, I think we have much more important work to do, and I think there is a commitment of this government to allow the citizens what they have promised, which is decentralisation, not to pour promises from party meetings, but here to discuss these laws and let go of what there is no need to waste time now and to bring something that will not have any effect on what was immoral in the past in our term. And in the future, it'll either be slow or it won't be at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72908	Thank you. For the Club of National Minority Representatives, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72909	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives' Club, considering the Final Bill on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the local self-government units, paid particular attention to Articles 2 and 3, although Article 1 is not uninteresting, and it was very much spoken of by my predecessor that we really did not understand what the certificate was 8 days earlier with the public notary, since the resignations were given up for 3 days. In addition to the fact that in those five days, actions that may not be desirable happen and may have exactly the connotation that we wanted to prevent by law. However, we would especially like to refer to Articles 2 and 3 of this Law, which discusses the selection of minority councils. And I must say that it is strange for us that the motionor accepted the opinion of the Council's seminar and that he did not accept this very proposal in 2004 from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities, if such an amendment had an excuse. In fact, if this change had been made in 2004 and had been conducted in parallel with the local elections in 2005 it would have been legal and constitutional. This way, I must say, if an amendment like this is accepted that we are adopting an anti-constitutional act, because the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities has said that the councils have a mandate of four years. We are thus trying to change the mandate to the councils of national minorities, or extend it to 6 years, practically and violate constitutional law or we are violating a practical term of 4 years. It is already acceptable for someone, and for this reason, I think we will have to consider this proposal differently because the elections held in 2003 and 2004, respectively, in practical terms, stand out next year. The elections for the councils of national minorities must be passed legally in May 2007, and for this reason it should be seen whether it is possible to implement it with parliamentary elections, which again raises questions as to what the May-to- autumn term is. So, and then we're already breaking the Constitutional Law on minority rights again. This idea of connecting, meaning elections for national minority councils with local elections, since they are being conducted under the Law on Elections of Local Self-Government Representatives was said at a time when this could be done for 2005, when nothing would be illegal and when we just wanted to avoid several problems that were created during the 2003 elections, respectively. First, because huge funds have been spent, i.e. I must say, the official data that 20 million were spent in the 2003 elections for the council elections, or another 15 million in 2004. For me, these are huge funds if it is known that the budget or budget for the total work of all minorities in that year was 19 million, and that for the elections that were ultimately, where there was a very small response, which were conducted without promotion, which were carried out very unqualityly because there was only one polling place in each election unit, which made it impossible for voters to come and that it certainly affected the voter's response as it was. The fact is that even today, many of the statutes of the local self-government units are not in line with the law, that the central state office unfortunately has not done its job, we still have the councils that are elected in 2003, 2004 and are not established. They are not established for reasons or because they do not have the means or that the local self-government unit does not want to do so because it has not defined its statutes or ultimately did not provide a minimum of the conditions that the body has to ensure that such a body can function at all. Therefore, we are the position in the National Minorities Club, to fix the amendments but unfortunately we are afraid that if we ask for Article 2 and Article 3 to be deleted, does this raise the question of a new law, does this raise the question of how this solution actually comes to light if we know that elections should be held in May 2007. I'm just saying, this problem that elections could be tied to parliamentary elections can also be discussed here, but I say again, there is the possibility of an anti-constitutional solution. The question is also certain when minority representatives are elected in a special constituency, there are also special voter lists, so it is possible that then they are elected means, and the councils of national minorities, but surely there will be a lot of problems. But on the other hand, it would be positive to get this larger response that the response is spoken of and when it comes to elections for local committees where we have a problem whether or not right now, this is an idea that has been discussed here and which appears, that elections for local committees are tied to local elections and that maybe elections for the councils of national minorities are really tied up with parliamentary elections, but then another dilemma opens up, and that's the dilemma that will be in the event of extraordinary elections, which is then with the mandates of the council, will we then and means again to have elections for the minority councils, or will we respect that deadline given by the constitutional law that he is 4 years. On the basis of these precisely to say the problems that have been created precisely because it has been delayed with this proposal and which means the elections have not been implemented in 2005 with the units of local self-government and it is impossible to extend the mandates until 2009, unless we want to amend constitutional law and violate constitutional law, we simply cannot support this law in this way and we propose that it may be in line with agreeing and conduct third reading and, in the meantime, see Article 2 or 3 or see whether it is possible to tie elections to minority councils along with this time only with parliamentary elections with a small error or go to elections in 2007 when I say there are a lot of shortcomings, they are expensive to also think about how it should not be a special election and a higher response and all that is negatively seen in the last elections, i.e. and the additional elections in 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72910	Thank you. For the club HSP, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72911	Dear Mr. President, and Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Well, this law is one big shot into thin air. I mean, when I say that, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, the right to regulate the institute of resignations. So it is not the problem in the Croatian public, but rather the problem of trade with mandates. That is the problem and that is what hurts the most the Croatian electoral body and trade mandates is in most cases disrespecting the voter's will. And that's the problem that Croatian public, Croatian citizens expect to finally get rid of. And this law is in this part of a pure distortion of thesis. I hope that again this proposal for a solution has not proposed to us the Department of Constitutional Law in Zagreb when you asked for an opinion in such and similar situations. Trade in terms of mandates is what Croatian citizens do not tolerate and how respect for the voter's will is when the mah is traded with the mandates of those whose names are not even on the ballot. The ballot shall bear the name of the first on the list and the name of the party, if the independent list is the name of the holder of the independent list. Many of those who trade in terms of mandates are not and no one knows that he voted for them, in particular no one knows that he voted for him because he still voted with a wave of votes for the parties because everyone circled towards the party's side. Therefore, nothing has been done here, which is what the Croatian public expects, which is what we expect here on behalf of the Croatian Party's Club of Rights, although it is simplified to trade in terms of terms on the one hand and allows even to raise the price in the period that this is written here in connection with this signature, in the public notary or within which such a written resignation is handed over. Therefore, we suggest that you really withdraw this law from the procedure and that we do not deceive the public here. Here, today is the part of the new trade mandates in the area of Brod-Posavina County where HDZ buys, say, councilors... I hear he even bought an HSS councilman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should prevent trade from taking office. There's an act of voter's will. At least you put me here, or on behalf of the HSP Club, I'm asking you at least to tell me what price Brdek got when he was trading in terms of terms, which Veraj got when he was bought the same. This is what the public expects, and that is what bothers the Croatian public, that trade. And now, under the pretext that the Bianca resignations were, and that was, above all, an effort to attribute to us, and the first binco resignation gave HDZ to Vodice if we're going to talk about it. And they weren't binco resignations because everyone wrote their name and last name and signed it, so no one forced him into that part. And that was in the sense, we always did it like it was a Lujanca case when Ronko bought it. The situation was clear. So, it was a clean trade mandate, and in those situations, we went with those resignations that weren't bianco because they signed them by name and last name and everything to prevent trading through mandates. So, the goal was to prevent trade from being given mandates, not to facilitate and facilitate trade with the mandates that you are now doing. I don't know why you're doing this and don't fool the Croatian public. The public already knows enough about the trade in mandates and how the markets are conducted by mandates, and therefore Croatian citizens go to a smaller number because of the fact that they vote for one party, vote for one person, these people change their uniform the other day. And then who are they representing? It is another situation that they are directly elected, that they are directly appointed, so the electoral body that voted for man, let's say for one Veraj, for one Brdek, for Lujanc, or for the name and last name. But they didn't vote, nobody even knew them. No one even knew them, they voted for the party. And what's he trying to do with this now? Nothing's going to happen. However, it is now being disabled if the mandate is non-binding it makes it impossible for a man to dispose with his mandate. Why can't he withdraw the resignation that has been handed over in this way as you have indicated the day before the session, at the very session when it is known that you can make the right request, at any moment you can always give up the request and even the lawsuit when it comes to the court procedure that at any moment even means at the main hearing, at the main debate you can give up that part. Now, what's going on here? It solves and makes it easier to trade in terms of mandates, means totally playing the voter's will and not what you State Secretary said, you said we respect the will of the citizens. What kind of citizens do you respect? What kind of citizens do you respect when you talk about resignations here? What is the will of the citizens on the resignations? These are purely meaning the distortion of thesis and the creation of fertile soil for additional trading mandates. Therefore, there is no way that we are going to support this law and this other one is just as badly done as the lady said on behalf of the national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72912	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72913	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! Well, let's go from easy to harder. First, the law has only four articles. The emphasis is obvious that we at the IDS Club experience it in the election of members of the National Minorities Council who should be elected at the time of the election of local leaders. At first glance, it seems to be logical, but it is 100% unconstitutional. First, what do you say about minorities? Croatian minorities whose representatives were more common to power than against the authorities should not be octrossed today. Without a choice, they simply cannot have legitimacy. And what message is that? If we do so at this time when the international community's attention is so concentrated on respecting members of national minorities that tomorrow, let's say, Mr Palaric will propose that the Croatian Parliament itself should be octroprated. And against such a practice should simply be rebelled. The constitution is simply not to be derrogated. Then when we see it, how can I put it? If the institutions, I don't know... Mr. Secretary of State, we just don't need them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Democracy costs, clearly costs both nerves and money and everything else but the principles of the Constitution should be respected because then the alternative is, under quotes, self-government. And by doing the same thing in another way, we show how much we hold to minorities? The constitutional law in its Article 24 speaks of a secret vote, clearly, of minority representatives within a period of 4 years. Who here today in this country can extend that four-year term to six years? That's what the ministry gentlemen think they can do, but it just can't happen because in the end, we're gonna leave all those bodies without legitimacy. That is certainly what is crucial in this Law, though, the other is clearly important. In my court, as this will be time-coordinated, and clearly always by respecting the Constitution, we should come to the point of choosing both these local representatives and the national minorities one day when all this is brought together, not to give them a 6-year term, then we should choose local committees on that day. So it's all to choose in the same day. We know that these local committees don't decide anything anyway, so let's not make any extra expenses, someone will. However, all this must be clear in the constitutional frameworks. Elections, I'm not talking about these extraordinary elections right now because it's always a higher power, and by my judgment, it needs to be reduced to three cycles. So we have elections for the president of the state, we have elections for Parliament and elections for these local representatives, mayors, mayors. Then there are these municipal councils of national minorities, local committees and so on, but once again I stress everything in accordance with the law. These are the meanings of three levels of government and that clearly, there should be one distinction. The country's next presidential elections will be held in February. Parliamentary elections, meaning next year most likely in the 11th or 12th month. The next local elections will be held in 2009 most likely, not most likely but... is the definition of the third week at 5 months or in May. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This time the election will be direct. The mayor, the mayor, the chief, will be elected directly, but perhaps there is something else to be prescribed. If new municipalities are formed then their elections should always go at the end of the local government's mandate, not to break local authorities during the term of office, and now, with political arithmetic, falsify the results of previous elections. And that's what happens, Mr. Palaric, or it can happen. For example, here we have formed the municipality of Funtana, okay. It is derived from the composition of Vrsar, from the composition, and part of St. Lovrec is singled out, and it is prescribed that part of St. Lovrec is entered into Vrsar. And what's going on? There's an election in Funtana, that's fine. But then the question arises what is now suddenly with Funtan? With Vrsar? If that happens, if this happens now in the Vrsar elections in action is one political engineering that comes through the end of local self-government. And if that happens then it's nothing more than falsifying. the cancellation of the electoral will of the previous elections. It's one attack, it's a diversion to the functioning of local self-government. It's literally abuse of political power. That's how I express crime to the worst political kind. Let us now go to this article. There's talking about that written resignation of a member... the bodies are not subject to the procedure laid down in Article 7(1), subparagraph 1 of this Act, to be adopted no later than 3 days before the scheduled holding of the session... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] bodies and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are problems like everyone else before me. The bianco resignations. So those that are given in advance in a case that should happen after that. There was, we all know, we're aware of that extremely much manipulation, but in this country, how, I don't know, you can even fight that form of immorality when, for example, you flee to destroying the conquered power. It's clear there's no imperative mandate, it's a constitutional category. It's a good thing it's because it's just the opposite of anything. This article, I claim in such or similar form as anyone has opposed me personally, is not too slow. In that part, I'd say it's acceptable. But there is something that needs to be built in to make a political defect, that political converts at least are morally sanctioned. It goes to some parties, for example, in order to determine a material obligation, it is clearly not right, but because of seeing this prostitution someone in some areas simply loses power. But then when you lose that power, someone loses their existence. Some families go to the labour market. Someone's carrying it precisely because of this immoral direct material damage and it should also in some way, I don't know how, at least morally sanction. Imagine, I don't know, that in a bipolar society like the United States, two senators don't matter now which parties cross over those other parties and that now they simply lose power no less than in the Senate and that these two determine the political future of a great power such as the United States. There, we see here in such a big country, not only that, to the redistribution of one political power, but certainly economic, financial, economic, military, police, I don't know intelligence, internationally or anything like this that I don't even mention. What is happening in Croatia, it is really hard to see in some other countries the case is more and more present because the media themselves consciously bipolarise this political scene but so far it has mostly happened in the space of the local self-government. The question is, how do you fight it? Unfortunately not. But when, for example, this is why. You lose a city like Pula then you really wonder how to put yourself in this immoral world. I'm looking at so much from the IDS position, even this article kind of suits us. I don't know which, first reading and these questions should be clearly opened and sort of solved, although I am aware that everything depends on people and not on legal texts. What could be resolved, however, we are not prepared to do so, and these may be direct elections for all councillors as mayors, mayors, or mayors, and for God's sake we should also choose representatives and then see whose mother gives birth to black wool.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72914	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72915	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary and Assistants, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the proposal for this law on appearance is acceptable and tempting because it seems that in this case, it is after-election that the rules are in place. However, if we remember all of those events after the elections, however democratic, directly, express the will of citizens from the least unit of local self-government to the final direct election of the president who was, but now the new elections that are for the direct and the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, the actions that happen after the election have to put all of us before one big question, how morally responsible society we are and how many people who are now elected are still on the party lists, because there are really many times more times who are being voted for and how the elections are over and how this so-called. the non-binding mandate of any representative who enters the council of the city or municipal or county assembly is so sincere that he does not change his mind over time. I'm going to use really mild terms, because I don't think it's fair to call people responsible, conscientiously and morally cleanly behave their duties. He's doing those minorities and doing those who are here as it is said, trading, muddying the whole system. I think it's good that the system is regulated and the rules of the game are known. I am not a lawyer and I am satisfied otherwise and this procedure that has now been and lived in such an environment where there has been no trading of council mandates and where the political option has not been removed or adapted to change the will of the citizens so I do not need an additional fuse. But if this is one of those fuses, let it be introduced, but I don't think he brings anything new or better said doesn't give one certainty that this kind of thing won't happen again. On behalf of the HSS, I do not intend to propose now a new solution in which this would not happen, and I know that only moral clean and responsible people would not be repeated in the elections and would neither be sold nor removed. So if we think twice about it, there's a catharsis of society where we all have to think about society as a whole, how it works. I already think in this House I was saying that everything is for sale, it's neoliberalism on the part where simply for material good people are willing to sell face, soul, bow down or remove certain options and not wondering what the consequences of it are. So if this society doesn't have the strength to take a step forward when proposing candidates, in front of candidates of those procedures, don't check out, and that's the duty of those who propose, to check the moral resemblance of each individual, and finally let the obligation against the one on whose list he goes to elections, then this certainly isn't the way to keep them to say in a certain option now and that they don't sell their cheeks. The worst part is, I say, there's no price and it's all being sold and bought today. We in the HSS think that we are actually having a completely different fight, a pre-election fight and, in other ways, by non-restraint, by non-restraints, rather than simply looking at ourselves in the mirror so as to say whether we are responsible people or if we are people who are able to turn from the direction of a particular option that we belong to. I've known since the 95th in this House that no other parliamentary representative has entered the independent list and has become a parliamentary representative. Unfortunately, you and I are witnessing how many independent agents we have. Shame on all of us that we hadn't prepared the law at the time, that we didn't make it impossible, but we actually blessed it all together and made it possible for such advocates to be better, to be in a more favourable position than we are and to actually laugh at all of us together in the back. The same thing happens at lower levels. Clearly this is a high level where the material benefit is large and it all comes down to the fact that everything is bought and sold. We in the HSS cannot be determined now whether this is the final solution that prevents it, because our analysis is speaking, and it is already said that it is only a certain period when it can be crossed or come unfortunately because it is such a climate in society, because it is such a simple time. We would be happy that it is impossible and that it is actually possible to prohibit that any options have amenation or removal, means that they are simply disabled and it is the task of the legislator, to find the right way to simply have no option that he could, meaning, be a councilman at the lowest level of municipal, city or assembly of the county, and finally, while at Parliament, to be able to cross over and achieve significant material benefits, but also to violate the reputation of councilors, city councilman and clearly, the assembly of the county. So this law by us is an attempt, a good try maybe but not a solution. We don't have a solution right now, but it's actually an obligation for the legislator to find that solution, so either way, I believe that somewhere in some legislation, it exists, cross down, rewrite and give us adoption. As for other articles, councils, national councils, election of councils for national minorities, we at HSS adhere to the Constitutional Law and the Constitution not to touch their rights but to allow them to choose regularly as they are told and not to, now, so I have heard one expression today, to provoke them now to new elections and all together. So let's try to find a solution in that sense that would be satisfactory and that there would be no provocation, conditionally speaking, for early elections or for them to be what the law provides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72916	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72917	Mr. Vice President, I just wanted to correct the wrong quote of a colleague of Kolar who mentioned the word "neoliberalism" and under it, and defined it as the right to sell cheeks, you know? It's not a definition of neoliberalism or neoliberalism can put up with anything, let alone the right to sell cheeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72918	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72919	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's been over a year since we had the last local election, and if we remember all those scenes that were after those local elections, that's what actually marked them. Those three incident situations, she pushed, guards, crowds, disputed resignations, did the man sign his resignation by hand, did someone write it for him? Did he resign or did someone turn her in for him? There was such a crowd and there was such a bad and sad impression that there was basically no winner. The losers were, in fact, all political parties. There was the impression that the mandates were traded largely, for a little while, that there was no party that did not buy someone, which did not buy someone and created a pretty bad impression in which trust in the work of political parties was actually thrown out. That's what democracy is for, that's what's for a multiparty disaster. The biggest problem, however we look at the matter, was that of these famous bianco resignations and what this government can do, which we as Parliament can do to show credibility, indeed, to regulate this issue. If it wasn't in practice, I agree with all my colleagues who said it was unnecessary. However, in our life, our practice has proved to be absolutely necessary. We really need to regulate the question of resignation because if we don't regulate what happened to us will happen to us. I totally agree with my colleague Kolar, who on behalf of the HSS Club said this was a good try, but not a solution. And this is really, I mean, a good attempt by the government, but the solution we have to offer ourselves. The solution cannot be prescribed here by law alone. All political parties who put certain candidates on their list bear great responsibility. It has to be people moral, it has to be honest people, and we have to recognize that when we agree to the election lists. Because tomorrow when it happens to us that someone after only a month earlier arrived on some list, now suddenly in that month he changed his mind so he doesn't agree with that program anymore, so he's more into the other party's program. Now, that really leaves a lot of doubt, but unfortunately, the law can't prescribe it. That's what we, the parties, have to recognize people like that before we put them on the list. It's a matter of pure life, of the pure functioning of parties. I believe that this government has indeed shown one great credibility because it had the strength, it had the courage to disband the councils in Velika Gorica, Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the City of Požega. Let's remember what the incidents were like, let's remember what the crowds were like. No matter what the Croatian Democratic Community had there, in 2 of these units, the government has shown its determination and disbanded the 2 units of local self-government. Also in terms of regulating the situation and improving the situation in this area, we have in the process, we have already passed 2 readings of the Law on direct elections for mayors, mayors and mayors. Now also after this point goes to amend the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government where the important issue is regulated, and this is the relationship between directly elected leaders with local parliaments. And therefore, it seems to me that the government has made a major and significant step in regulating this issue, the functioning of local self-government. Because we must restore credibility to the functioning of local self-government, but we must return credibility to the functioning of political parties. And that's why all these stories that were here about the store, that someone was trading, and this and that, that's not the law. It's a matter of politics, it's a matter of the Ministry of the Interior, the USKOK and those bodies that need to investigate it, which should initiate appropriate procedures. So here, if someone knows someone's buying someone, well, please let a concrete application against the specific people hand over to the competent state authorities to handle it because we here in the Parliament don't have any responsibility for what we say in any material sense, but if we know it's being traded, then we really need to be credible to write down and make a concrete criminal report and report it. What I know is that the Croatian Democratic Community, I may say, we have not had any experimental coalitions or such or such things in the past elections. We advocate the credibility and work of political parties, we advocate that the rule of law works, that everything that has been, where there is doubt of any dishonest action, be investigated and sanctioned. That's what we're really asking of all the state bodies and hopefully that's how it's gonna be. As for the resignation that we were talking about here. This law is not true, it has four articles that have undergone certain changes in relation to first reading. Now we see that we have an institution of public notation. There have been discussions here that it is in a certain way limiting the councilman from his mandate, which is unhurtful, which is his, but I don't think it is because this is just the way the resignation is tolerated. The deadline has been set, a certain way of making a statement with the public notary and by me, as some colleagues have agreed here before, I think it's a good thing. The resignation is not well to endure the promotion, the resignation is not well tolerated in the incident situations, the resignation is not well tolerated in some crowd, but I believe that in the people who intend to resign, however, it will produce an effect that before these resignations will better consider whether to submit it or not. I do not believe what Mršić said that this institute is solely in order to actually raise the price and facilitate trade. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club, believing in all these measures that we have already taken, and that means we have deeply entered into legislative changes regarding the direct selection of local self-government leaders, we have deeply entered into amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, before that we have disbanded those councils where the incident situations were, we are convinced that this law is proposed with the best intentions. And therefore, as political parties, we must not ignore the obligation ahead of us, which is that in the elections we run for moral, honest and honorable people who will not change their minds in a month and who will not suddenly like another programme. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72920	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72921	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I must first admit that when I read the bill, I was in a dilemma of the effects that he would bring and the possibilities to produce the effect that the promoter would like to receive. But after listening to my colleague, Peru Kovacevic, and I believe him because they have experience in it, I tend to those who say that he will not solve the problem, that he may be a good try, and that is why I will give three dilemmas and three suggestions to the secretary of state, and things can be fixed to make security in the effects greater than it is at this point. First of all, this bill applies only to resignations. In local representative bodies in Croatia, about 7 thousand, 7 thousand 200 members are spinning. If only one percent of them are problematic, it is 70 to 80 people in Croatia. And so much so we have these problems in the country. And for this reason, we immediately intervene in the law, and in Parliament at the same time we continue to leave the possibility that someone after the elections declares himself an independent parliamentary representative without grounds in the Election Law itself. What about putting a term of office on hold? Because a councilman can put a term of office on hold. What procedure? Here you don't need a signature to put your mandate on hold right now, and a resignation to. By placing the mandate on hold, they are also produced or can produce the same effects of the situation, which is why we need to fix this law. So I suggest that the resignation procedure and putting the term of office at rest unless the law force makes it the same pattern. Secondly, it is predicted that only the public notary's certificate is valid. I would suggest that it intervenes with the amendment by the government or the diplomatic consular representation of the Republic of Croatia abroad because objectively it can happen that the councilman ends up abroad in the hospital, he has a hard time getting hurt and that only in the diplomatic representation can he verify his resignation. It cannot come to Croatia, nor will a public notary go to Norway to verify and accept resignation. And in all other regulations of certification of the signature of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is valid with the public notary and those in diplomatic and consular representations are even, so I think it would be good to see it in this regulation. Furthermore, I don't understand why it takes three days, and then three days before the council meeting, because the councilman doesn't have to know when someone's gonna call a council meeting to time those dates. I think it's quite reasonable that resignation should not be more than eight days old than the day of the council or the assembly meeting. And that's how we solved the problem of the anti-dated, bianco resignations. However, the problem begins next. Does a representative body have to verify after this intervention in the law of resignation? Does the resignation go to a mandate-immunity committee that reports to the representative body that someone resigned? Yeah. Those provisions of the law remain. And what if most councilmen resign under these regulations? The representative body's session cannot be held, resignations cannot be verified and they are not valid. There is no session, there is a second legal deadline of three months for the non-session of the representative's body, so two months for the appointment of commissioners, then two months for the election to be called, then two months for the establishment and a year for you without authority in the city, county or municipality. Because we're not touching the verification of the resignation, so we're not touching the verification procedure. If the resignation is certified by the public notary and is handed over to the municipality, city or county, and in order to prevent the blockade of all of this, why we stay with the institute of the verification of the resignation. If we don't open up a new possibility of blocking work and thus causing extraordinary elections, but not today, but in a year. I'm warning you now that we wouldn't have to change the law again when it happens to us. Trade mandates and price hikes in party lists under this regime, I see so much as a colleague Mršić. But I see him somewhere else. In independent lists. Namely, when a councilman of the party's list to resign the party determines who instead goes and he has nothing to bid on. But that's not the case with an independent list. The law states that if someone with an independent to resign, the next in line goes inside. That's when the store starts. That's not the law we're dealing with again. And we even favor independent lists compared to party lists. We give them, however, a limited time limit for an open store for shops or fairs, but we raise the price, we raise part of the value of their shares. I agree with the proposal and I appeal to the local self-government, so the council of local committees, we have elections when and for the representative bodies of local self-government. We will save millions and millions of kunas of local and regional self-government budget money, we will get a composition of local self-government that will be the decision of a far greater number of voters than it is now to gain greater efficiency. Only one addition, only one sentence in amendments and additions would solve this problem and we can go in a way that applies in the first subsequent regular elections. Try to imagine if there are 14 local committees in one municipality, in the city of 10 city districts or wheels, so multiply by 428, 429 how many municipalities are now 124 cities, how much is the electoral cost for local self-government and the rule that they are also chosen from citizens through secret voting has become a general rule which is good. And now we've gained some experience, seen that it's going to be such an election, let's take a step back and cut people's costs. As for colleagues Chuhnil and the amendments given by the Club of Representatives of the SDSS on the Council of National Minorities, I think they have properly warned of the desire and the desire to hold these elections in parallel either with the local or with parliamentary ones. There would be cheaper elections and lower costs again, and we would still be in a situation where the decision on the chosen ones is a far larger number of voters, a larger electoral body than when they are implemented separately. Therefore, the legitimacy, or the majority of voters, the stronger their role, the more serious they take, the more serious they run, the more media attention is given, and only in every polling post comes another ballot and nothing more. What instruments, is there a possibility that this could be resolved without amending the constitutional law, whether this organic law can have such regulation within itself, I think that this dilemma should be clarified on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, wait for a decision and if it is a second reading of this law, and that we are not in a situation that in 6.7 months we need to change the law again to satisfy what counterpart Chuhnil said, but what was offered to the amendments of the SDSS Club. Solutions are offered bigger now. I appeal to this law not to make a final decision, to open this topic on the board and to see the possibility of these amendments being resolved. These suggestions and suggestions are on the trail of calls and colleagues from Bosnjakovic that it is a responsibility on all parties that this issue is now in the process of passing laws as best as possible. I accept that invitation. That is why I appeal not to rush this time, that now the topics and questions we see that we have to solve them, let's go to work, not only because of the speed of bringing this article 1 in the proposed amendments and the amendments to the law, because as far as I've noticed the fairing site getting less and less worked out, it was current before, so now it doesn't matter if we vote now or in two weeks or a month so that we can do it as well as we can. These are all the reasons for these eight points I've listed that in this variant, as proposed by our club will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72922	Thank you. It's time to report a ten-minute hearing at 17.43. It's SDSS's turn, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72923	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the central state office. I'll say first that our club can't stand by this law and it won't support it and I'll say here the key reasons why we have this attitude. First of all, I'm not completely, I have to be honest, I haven't fully thought of an article 1 that speaks of resignation but I have two doubts. One of these is about time. Some colleagues and colleagues here have been talking about 7 days, 3 days, etc., there's some question that I'm kind of joining because I'm carrying her on my conscience, too, if I may say so. And the second question is kind of principled, you know, when you're looking for one resignation with a public notary's confirmation in this kind of public sphere, then I guess it should be the same for some others, let's say not just for councilmen but also for some officials. Whether or not everything is correct in that matter is in principle correct or not, it would not be stated. I said I didn't sort of clean myself up about it. We are more interested in these provisions concerning the elections of minority councils, and I will comment on something more. First of all, I'm going to say that from the club and myself personally, regardless of how involved I am in this problem, I didn't participate in these initiatives that were offered by the central office to go with a proposal with intervention in this law. I, maybe I didn't even have to be in those initiatives, I respect that sensitivity to make those initiatives feel and talk about them, and I think that's okay. I just want to say that I think these initiatives from the perspective of the needs of minority communities aren't imaginary enough and they're not designed to the extent that this proposal that I've been given here has been convinced that it's the best proposal. I'll say a few reasons why I think so. We, colleague Chuhnil, said here today, we have these elections in which these councils were elected and established had in very poor circumstances from the timing point of view, in terms of informing people about what is going on, about the possibility of promotion, about the number of polling stations. So, there were a lot of circumstances that made it impossible, or if you want otherwise, they didn't allow us to get more people to manifest themselves and get the quality of these councils, and it's now coming back to us as a content minus, so if I can even say the personal minus. And now, it's a distraction that we play these councils in a quality way in a function of need, interest, benefits of minority communities, and to say even differently in the function of playing minority self-government, minority organisations and minority self-government within ourselves. Now that we've extended it for two years, we support and maintain the situation that we in minority communities are assessing insufficiently, we judge the poor. In a way, we too lose our view of quality for the next two years. Here I add something else that I also think can be questioned, which is a matter of four years' term of office, whether we are insulting the constitutional law's provision that the term of office lasts four years. But let's just say we can talk about it. Therefore, we are dissatisfied with the quality and this proposal as practical as it is, and I will say something a little later and about practicality, is not in the interest of minority communities. I am free to say that in the talks of minority MPs we can be more or less in different ways but equally to that conclusion we all came together. That's why we're in a way that we can't support this law. Another thing that I also want to say here, I admit to the fact that when you put the council elections together with some other election, you get money savings and you get some kind of practicality. But when the elections for minority councils are joined with local elections, then I am convinced that you will get a marked election crowd in which technically it will be difficult to manage. You know, you have a lot of boxes, a lot of candidates, a lot of minorities. It's going to be a great charm. I know that the people, the bodies that are in charge of implementing the technique, we can say that's their concern, but I'm seeing from the experience that we've had so far that it can be an expression of the problem. We are here today, so minority representatives have articulated three written views. The first is because this thing is not completely clear to us or we think it is not clear to the extent that we can clearly and loudly support it we will go and we have a written proposal to go to the conclusion to refer this proposal to the third reading. The second attitude is expressed through the amendment explained by Mrs. Chuhnil. And the third attitude is expressed through the amendment that we have made. It's all got one goal. It's not a thing well done, it's not a thing well articulated, it's designed, it's not a thing well arranged. Let's talk about it and let's decide something later. So that's the basic point of view. I'm going to say something else that I think is important, but it doesn't belong to the matter of the regulatory election or the regulation of the election, but practice warns us of the next difficulty. We have so far had councils in the local environments as some sort of second-rate question or some sort of God question and asks which order. I'm afraid we'll continue practice if we regulate it in this way and drown it all in one term in these joint elections simply because in local structures or in local communities, in municipalities, in cities, in the districts the role of minority councils and those as instruments playing some kind of minority organization, minority self-government in a way that benefits both from the minority community and society as a whole. So it's not to that extent, in this form of mutual benefit played out. I'm aware it's not that easy. I'm just afraid with this proposal, we're gonna wrap things up and stay in shape and we're not gonna help them get some quality. I'll figure it out the next way. I'm aware, and I'm in favour, and I agree, I agree that there are ways to make it less expensive, I agree. But I ask your consent to the question that these councils are in the position of a minority organisation and minority self-government within and help us play it as a minority community mechanism. We have experience and we have, we're careful that it won't be like that. That's why I'm saying this, and that's why we decided on this law the way I started my presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72924	Thank you. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS, MDS Mr. Representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72925	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government! Let me be very brief on this bill on behalf of the Regional Party Club. We think that the fact that came from the overall debate is the one that stands, which is that no matter how many times we debated and how many times we've brought something, how many times we've proposed something in the electoral legislation we have and we're going to have a total mess. Whether it's the local committees, municipalities, cities, county or parliament, it's a mess. Of course, we discussed it many times in the Parliament, and it was so much sore. He argued, and there was a lot of accusations about who was more responsible for this mess? It's a fact that we haven't moved anywhere for a single pedal. We will neither move nor move for a simple reason because we are trying to solve through laws and, among other things, what the law cannot solve, and what we should by law do not resolve and we do not have integrated laws. We do not have systematic laws that regulate overall choice in local and regional self-government, separate from that by a system law that regulates choice at country level and simplified in a way that understands and clearly lays down the rules of the game. We would solve morals and ethics through laws. He won't be able to get rid of it. Likewise, the Assembly will not be able to prove itself, it will not be able to restore credibility if it is lost as counterpart Bosnjakovic said in a good part we are witnesses that she will not return after this speaker, I mean the credibility of political parties. It will also not be resolved by technical regulation on how to resign in a representative body in a local self-government unit. And for that reason, we at the Regional Party Club think that this law is actually unnecessary to pass. We think that we should move from word to action in a certain way and consider that we have long ago promised to reform the system of local and regional self-government in this House on behalf of the executive government. That we promised a full, complete reform of the electoral system in local and regional self-government. We've never approached it and it stays, I don't know what time and for who. That is why we think it would really be best to either withdraw this proposal or simply accept the proposal put forward by representatives of the minority club and the SDSS who in a way suggested that it be moved to a third reading and that the promoter with all interested if it goes into legal interventions an assessment of the better ways to do so? And conscious of the problem for three days, for eight days, to rule out the possibility of some other forms of resigning that has been discussed here today's speech will really not absolutely solve anything. In the end, we talked so many times about party uniform changes and someone's paying someone. If someone pays someone, they don't even have to leave the party, from whose list they've been selected. He can continue to work on his own. He doesn't have to change his formal party uniform. It can change the will of voters, and unfortunately in this country this will is too often changed and with what we are discussing here today we prove that we are able to discuss for several hours, one whole afternoon on topics that have no meaning, which ultimately, looking beyond this, beyond this assembly and outside political parties or the peaks of some political parties, are very likely in Croatia no one is interested in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72926	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72927	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow the secretary of state to say at first that I personally think that because of the dignity of this House and that the motionor should withdraw from the procedure of this bill. That's the first one. Secondly, we have received here a proposal proposed by representatives of the Club of National Minorities and the SDSS to conduct a third reading on this law. I would warmly support that conclusion that this law, this bill, is possible until the third reading, is corrected. However, it is not possible to fix, this law among other things regulates some issues that are not in its jurisdiction. And allow me to make my point accordingly. Firstly, I would like to say, as regards the election of members of the Council and national minorities, I would like to remind you of Article 23. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities that it says, I quote: "With the aim of improving, preserving and protecting the position of national minorities in society, members of national minorities choose in the manner and under the conditions prescribed by this Constitutional Law their representatives" and so on. In Article 24, paragraph 5 explicitly states: "Members of the Council of National Minorities and representatives of national minorities are elected directly through a secret vote for a period of 4 years. And to the election process and other issues, therefore, technical issues related to their choice are applied accordingly to the provisions of the law." Thus, the Constitutional Law delegates to the Law on Elections for Representative Authorities of the Local Self-Government Units, in fact, only a single procedure for the conduct of the elections and any technical issues and organisational issues. But it's not in any way possible. By law on selecting representatives, members of representative bodies of units of local and regional, regional self-government may be extended or shortened by a mandate prescribed by the Constitutional Law. And in this respect, it is a completely unreasonable proposal to extend this current mandate of the National Minority Council to another two years, so for six years. It is therefore not possible to do so without amending the Constitutional Law and in such a situation it is quite clear that it is not the subject matter and must not be subject to this law. Another problem, can't be regulated by one law, even if this issue could be resolved by the election of the National Minority Council, is done on a majority basis, not by a proportionate system, as the bodies of the representatives of the local self-government units are chosen by the party model. If elected by the majority principle and the Constitutional Law in Article 24(1) and (2), it particularly emphasises where representatives of national minorities and members of national minorities themselves can point out their elected representatives, then it is quite clear that it is not enough, it would not be sufficient for this change, but that this change would have to be significantly, significantly more in scope and by content as it could be because it is an organisation and the process of implementing the elections, in fact, to extend questions particularly about election bodies related to the fact that, in fact, for all these election units in which they are elected by the majority principle, representatives of members of the National Minority Council can be organised from election committees to election committees. It's not there. It is not accepted in this law, therefore it is simply missing in that part. And then what do we make an amendment and an addition to the law and at the same time be aware that next time we will do it, we will have to make the next amendment and supplement or bring a full law. Then it remains, the only thing that can be concluded from all of this is that this law is actually being passed because it is precisely extending this mandate which is not possible under the Constitutional Law. It's the law of the Constitution. For that reason, that is the first reason I find it completely clear and unacceptable. You couldn't get into that part. Secondly, what is also very important, you know, if the deadlines and mandates of the National Minority Council are to be changed then the need for amendments to the Constitutional Law on National Minorities should be discussed. I personally think that the Constitutional Law on National Minorities in this area is good and that it should not be changed and nothing else should be done but respected. The failure of state bodies, the calling of local elections and waiting for elections to be discussed for political reasons, the implementation or non-implementation of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities for the Council of National Minorities cannot now be corrected by violating the constitutional law itself and extending the mandate itself. Third, which I also find very important. You see the question of resignation. You know it's impossible in the same law to have a two-way regulated resignation issue. I would like to remind myself that Article 1 is amended and complemented by Article 7 of the Law, leaving Article 1(1) of Article 7 and adding a new paragraph 2 and 3 but in this Article I quote, as follows: "A member of the representative body shall cease his term of office before the end of the regular four-year term in the following cases: - if he resigns on the date of delivery of the written resignations under the rules of... prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act." We now propose a new item 2 that says by receiving the latest, the resignation that was received no later than three days before the scheduled session. Now that the term of office is over? The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. What are we going to apply? We'll use what suits us again. This is not good, no double norms should be passed in the law which, in fact, lead to different interpretations of what is appropriate and to the fact that political opportunities are inferred rather than legal law, etc. And that's why it's just not acceptable. That's number one. Number two, we must finally start discussing one very important issue. The elected representatives of the unit, the right to local self-government and regional (regional) self-government belong to the citizens. That doesn't belong to elected representatives. The elected representatives do so on behalf of the citizens. A very serious question arises, should we even need such a provision that in Article 7 it is indeed a matter for discussion, on the day of delivery of a written statement, let alone three days before the session is scheduled. You know? If it is a serious representative of the people, so when he resigned once, his mandate ended. He has not, he has returned the term of office to the citizens or to whoever has run him along with those citizens with the right to be replaced by someone whom the citizens have chosen and there is no point in saying three days of resignation then still verifying it with the public notary, a terrible administrative procedure in fact to introduce him to a person who does not trust his own voters who chose him or for any other initiative or reason does not wish to exercise the right to represent their interests and needs in the representative body of the unit of local self-government, etc. That's the first thing you'd like to say about this issue in particular. Another thing that should also be indicated, what does "revocation" mean, "revocation"? Does that mean if it's three days ago? It means that someone will still be able to act until the session is scheduled, i.e. until the start of the three-day legal period before the scheduled session starts, actually trying to act on him to call off the resignation. Well, that's not politically serious. If we're credible with those we represent, then we won't resign lightly, and once we give it to her, she actually needs a stat. And the third thing, which is also important. We forget the fact that, in the system, in the system and units of local (regional) self-government under certain conditions, a special session may be convened under the request of one-third of the council members. Whether before the appointment of that extraordinary session must be held for three days and it is scheduled of course for tomorrow, in order to be able to resign or to raise the council member normally at the session which I think is his legitimate and legal right, to rise up at the session and say I am resigning and there is no written statement because he actually gave a phonogram, in the record of that council session his statement that he resigns. For all these reasons, I think this is actually an attempt to solve the problem that has arisen by buying mandates, trading, etc. bribery, it's actually a form of political corruption and bribery you know. This should be resolved in a different, political way. It's political issues, it's not legal issues. The law itself will not resolve this, and therefore, this amendment and addition, in particular, which further extends the space for possible trade between individuals and political parties, are actually unnecessary, and I believe that this law should, again, be withdrawn from the protection of dignity and executive powers as a proponent, and also from this legislative body, I repeat, especially for reasons which will also cause political problems if this law is brought about by the council of national minorities. I'm sure of it. Some of the representatives of national minorities may be satisfied, but the majority of them will not be satisfied with the extension of mandates since it is known in what way and by what procedure they are quick and shortened, in fact, these people have been elected to the central council and, in addition, certain gaps and problems have already been identified which are related to their work and which are the link between them and the national minority that has run and chosen them. For all these reasons I personally consider it best to withdraw this law and I think that with the third reading nothing is obtained, it cannot be fixed especially because it solves issues that are not in its jurisdiction and therefore I personally will not be able to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72928	Thank you. Representative Frano Matušić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72929	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Following the last local elections in 2005, and before, certain shortcomings in the current Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the local and regional (regional) self-government units were observed. Certain interpretations and the application of some of the provisions of this law have been interpreted differently, which has been freely interpreted, can be said, to unwanted situations which ultimately have again been imposed and led to the disbanding of representative bodies in these units both local and regional self-governments. We have all been more or less familiar and have witnessed what is involved, and it is hardly necessary and there is no need to list a particular example. These amendments and additions to the law in question seek to avoid the possibility or to reduce the possibility of such situations and to regulate it, the Institute of Verification shall introduce written resignations to the council's mandate in the representative body of the unit of the local, or regional self-government of the public notary, with a deadline for the verification before the same as before the submission of the same period as the latest period of acceptance of the written resignation. All that the absence of such a provision now allows for this provision in Article 1 of the proposed law is eliminated or at least reduced to more acceptable frameworks. As for elections for the councils of national minorities and representatives of national minorities. The elections are held under this proposal, together with regular elections for members of the representative bodies of the local and regional self-government units. This is good anyway, and it means a certain, not a small amount of time and resources from the fact that we're holding elections at the same time. For the sake of this time-consistency, Article 3. The law stipulates that the mandate of the National Minority Council and representatives of national minorities elected in the first elections for members of these councils will continue until the first regular elections for members of the representative bodies of the self-government units elected. There is no doubt that the proposed changes will reduce, prevent certain problems from being caused by unwanted and unwanted situations. And at the end of the line, the units of local, or regional (regional) self-government allow for more peaceful and responsible work during the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72930	Dear Representative Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72931	_Other Organiser [[Intruder: President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72932	As long as you're done with the show, then you've picked up the board. I followed. I'm sorry, next time. Mr. Ivas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72933	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us is the Final Proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative body of units of local and regional self-government, which, in fact, wants to introduce certain mechanisms into the law that will prevent the change of voter's will through so-called. Bianco's resignation. This Final Proposal for a Law that has only 4 articles deals with two issues. First, the Institute of Verification of written resignations on the council mandate in the representative body. And secondly, connecting, i.e. extending the mandate to national minorities with the election, that these elections be held together with elections for members of the representative bodies of local self-government units. Last election, we were aware that, although in most units of local self-government, the government was formed without any major problems, that there were several cities and municipalities where they appeared so-called. Bianco resignations, which were arranged when the council decided to change the party. In that regard, we can easily say that there has been a trade in mandates and just to prevent these amendments and additions to this Act from being introduced. As some doubts have arisen in practice regarding the application of the Bianco Department Institute to a member of the representative body, and as a result, there was a situation where the elected members of the representative body were prevented or disabled, and often by extra-institutional means in the conduct of their council mandate, the Government decided in consultation with the Constitutional Law Department of the Faculty to prescribe this Law to verify the written resignations of a member of the representative body in the council's term of office and to do so with the public notary. This seeks to prevent the availability of the council mandate and to resign from the will of the elected councilman. Therefore, Article 1 of this Act stipulates that the resignation must be accepted 3 days before the meeting of the representative body is scheduled, so that the confirmation of the public notary should be certified at the earliest 8 days before the resignation is submitted. This avoids the possibility of political parties on whose lists are elected council members, having a council mandate beyond the council's will. This Law also provides for consequences in case a member of a representative body fails to resign in a manner and within the time limit prescribed in Article 7 of this Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, this Final Proposal of the Law, the Government has given up the regulation of the institute of withdrawing the written resignation because it considers that the written resignation mentioned and the regulation of the deadline gives sufficient assurance that there will be no abuse of the voter's will. Second, what is regulated by this Law is, the time is prescribed for the elections for members of the Council of National Minorities and it is proposed that they be implemented together with the election for members of the representative bodies of the local self-government unit, which means that these councils are actually extended to the current term of office until the 2009 elections. This can be explained by a few arguments. Namely, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, Article 24(5), provides that elections and other issues relating to the election of members of the Council and representatives of national minorities are to be applied accordingly to the provisions of the Law governing the selection of members of representative bodies, and it is logical that these elections be held and implemented together, as would be the financial and organisational justification. Secondly, the national councils elected in 2003 and 2004 actually started to operate only in 2005 and this period by 2009 should serve to spy on the work of these councils so that they can give all the results expected from their work after 2009. But there is information that the elections for council members and representatives of national minorities held in 2003 as well as the additions in 2004 were very low voter turnout, only 13% and 8%, and the question is whether it makes sense to extend the mandate to the elected minority representatives until 2009. It is also questionable whether this provision calls into question the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the 4-year duration of the mandate of those bodies. Despite all the remarks we have heard here, however, I believe that this Law should be adopted because it will surely prevent us from disabling the ability to arrange the bianco resignations beyond the will of the elected councilman, thus allowing elected councillors to exercise their constitutional and legal rights in the conduct of the council's duties. Abuse by individuals or political parties will be prevented, with a view to blocking the work of representative bodies, i.e. changing election results. Thirdly, it will be possible to hold elections for members of the National Minority Council together with regular elections for members of the representative bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72934	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72935	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72936	Excuse me. Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72937	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Ivas cited several arguments that elections for council members and representatives of national minorities were held in 2009 together with regular elections for members of representative bodies. However, a respected colleague, we have been given the benches of amendments to the National Minority Club that oppose it, and one of the reasons is the opposition, which says elections must be held every four years. So I'm asking you to maybe interpret a little bit of what you think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72938	Honorable representative of Ivica Clem, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The council mandate is irrevocable. And this is the setting of which we should start in any case when we discuss elections and elected council members in the bodies of the local self-government unit, i.e. regional or regional self-government. Why should this law be passed? It was precisely because we, and we should remember that we had a heated debate here in the assembly after the local elections we held in May 2005. At that time, charges were dropped from all sides of the purchase of MPs and parliamentary mandates. It was often used to accuse both the left and the right of trying to distort the will of voters and form through coalition authorities by unnaturally collating powers such as is not the will of voters. And in that part, it is certain that even if such a law cannot fully regulate our behaviour or the behaviour of a councilman in local self-government units, it will in some way narrow the space for those who want to manipulate the will of citizens. In theory, the question can always be asked when we discussed these bianco resignations, how can two council members come to one session with one mandate? One councilman who has been legally elected, but whose political party has resigned from Bianca and practically put him outside the council benches and another councilman whom the party has appointed, but who has not been elected and who cannot be elected to the council session as a representative of the political party, because the mandate of the first councilman is irrevocable. For this very reason, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Central Office of the State Administration and proposes such a law to regulate this particular question, which among these two council members is a legal councilman in the bodies of units of local, regional or regional self-government. Starting from that, I will repeat once again that the mandate of a legally elected councilman regardless of the fact that he wants, will and can change party colors is impeachable. He was chosen by the voter's will, and in practice we have just as many examples that all those who have failed their party and their constituents have not, or very rarely received citizens' trust as members of another political option or other political party. In this way, such a law or such amendments and additions to the law on the selection of members of the representative bodies prevents this duality in the selection or verification of the mandate of one who has not received the trust of the citizens. At the same time, no elected councilman can deny the term of office of the bianco resignation that he had chosen before he was elected to sign in certain political parties, and these political parties in fact manipulate those people whose mandates they wish to have at their disposal, and they do not want to give it to a legally elected councilman. And for these very reasons, I think this is a good example or a good attempt to prevent trading mandates in the way that it was done after the elections were held in May 2005. For these reasons, I will certainly support this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72940	Thank you. Dear Representative Vlado Jelkovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72941	Your Honor, Mr. President. Representatives of the proposing, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try to be brief, because all I said were three colleagues before me, and also Mr. Bošnjakovic speaking on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Club of Representatives. What I think should be noted after all is the fact that the transition has always been and certainly will be in the future, and no law that we would have passed here can force or lead to a situation that eventually does not cross into an opposing camp, and the reasons for it probably knows it. But what this law wants to achieve is that some of the doubts that have arisen in the interpretation of which the councilor or whose mandate is clearly clear and clear, and I think that fact by such a law as is proposed, so we get it. So, that bianco legacy institute will no longer exist, but it will be known and known for this when that resignation, so if it were valid, if it came into force and therefore things would still be cleaner. I will conclude this brief debate, therefore, we will not eliminate the transitions by doing so, but at least when we verify the resignations or the deputy mandate, or councilman, some things will be clearer. The fact is that the mandate belongs to the councilman and what is particularly important is that the parties simply have to watch who they put on their lists. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72942	Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72943	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This bill makes it obvious that the government is in a way seeking to resuscitate what it had since the local elections had such an echo that Brussels had occurred. Something that has completely compromised Croatia. The very fact that they... Mr. President, will you please calm this clubmate of yours down a little bit and use his business powers so I can speak. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72944	I'm dying.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72945	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72946	I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72947	So, since every ideology has simply died in our society, we've got a new ideology, a worshipping ideals and an idol to the free market. And on that market, some colleagues said well, everything appears. Not just from goods and services. Law and justice and health and trade in terms of mandates are also placed on the market. the will of the citizens. Nothing is sacred, everything is subject to market i.e. Money. Here, Bosnjakovic spoke nicely about what it really is that parties should and how to watch who they put it on. So, yes, they're also responsible for the so-called. selection errors. But that's just one part of the problem, and that's a small part of the problem. The problem is the one that always arises from the parties or parties, or which the party appears in the role of the service provider or that service provider. Of course, who's buying? Whoever has the money, who has the power. And if we analyze the situation a little bit we will not mention for the first time how elections were scheduled for the city of Požeg, which was the role of a certain minister there, but rather, we will skip it as some sort of overture and remember Karlovac to Split where, therefore, the minister, here was the call from counterpart Bošnjakovic talking about it, and we should all do so if we find out that he is buying, that he is selling, that he is applying again. But you see here it was about public affairs, a publicly signed contract, given to even the authorities of repression or certain judicial bodies. So what? So, the citizens well rated things because it was all visible, because it's visible and the one who bought it, it wasn't seen that he got the money and did he get the money and what did he get? But it was evident that he had suddenly recovered materially, that he had obtained employment for the whole family, that he had some sort of business space. Well, everyone sees it, in every place, in every village when it happens. And besides, here we are, reminding ourselves of Split. That the state-owned company Jadrolini is forbidden to compete on the most frequent line. Everything else is insignificant compared to the Split-Supetar line. She didn't answer, maybe she wasn't banned, why didn't she answer, why didn't someone answer, where they were responsible? If he missed this spot, why isn't he sanctioned by the government? Or he's being patted like that, as our fellow members of the Board of Supervisors of Croat Airlines, by companies, by the warden, by the director, by how well he did business. And great losses. So why am I saying this? Why do I remember? Because it would be significant to have a serious will to have some sanctions and if they were wrong knowingly or unwittingly that these persons were sanctioned by the ruling ones. Then this is the kind of suggestion that funny people wouldn't come to us here. ... four articles, and the new technically each suffers serious complaints. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, Mr. Palaric, please point to the board itself. This article 7 that you are now supplementing, you are proposing to supplement items 2 and 3 so with 2 paragraphs, these are the famous resignations, although you are not solving anything of this, yet the further situation is complicated because there are possible questions and here whether through the power of attorneys, how it will be passed, whether it is being extorted, whether this one, although he has confirmed it, has already changed his mind but has already been taken away from him and delivered it to the representative body and then he is running there and is denying that he did not want it, however, to change his mind. So nothing here can solve what you thought might solve, because the fundamental problem is different, to prevent such a situation. This is a technique and technique that's wrong. And I'm saying this now creates even more pressing problems in practice. Here you can see, because it doesn't change the item 1 that says you're dealing with the resignation by general administrative procedure. Then you should have changed paragraph 1. Therefore, an obvious negligent who is inadmissible to this kind of thing comes to the Croatian Parliament. Imagine that you supported some law systematic, a change of general administrative procedure or a new CAP that has 5 hundred members, when here 3 articles, because the fourth one is well written. This law enters into force for 8 days in "The People's Newspaper." So in three articles the whole article is essentially suffering serious complaints and it can't be like this because it will create confusion if we continue this way and probably the promoter himself didn't think, or the focus is in these new items that derivate paragraph 1. And those resignations, the famous resignations. Only Croatia has a problem with the resignations. And why is that? Because it started back in the '90s when there was a custom when under the pressure of a person, even before, it's true, there's a resignation. But she's only given to wash away by that act of giving she's all the doubt or leprosy she's carrying herself that act of resignation. And then most of that leaver, of course, won't allow and won't accept that resignation, and then, as it was given with a big pump with an even bigger pomp, is given away from that resignation. It is an institute of famous Croatian resignations which are now with this path of the notebook, what does it matter what is certified in the notebook or not. Well, those binco resignations were also authenticated by a public notary. Let go of the public notebook, which there was 100 kuna or 200 kuna for the certificate, that doesn't mean anything at all. I'm saying, if it was to prevent such manipulation, let's just say one part of this whole election story, or saga, in this way, and I'm not saying technically it didn't come to terms with what you might have possibly wanted to contain. And let's go back, or a little reminder of these elections for members of the councils of national minorities and representatives of national minorities. In Croatia, we have a crumb of councils in which there is a crumb of democracy. You, Mr. Palaric, know well that this applies to Zadar where the city council is just a certain party and the list is not a recognised councilman, although according to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, it is evident because it is also recognised in another county where the president of the national minority is on the HDZ list and without a problem although he did not win by choice but under the constitutional law himself independently of the won, on the number of votes he enters. We complained, we got the answer. And I keep talking about it every time, and you keep silent about it, or in writing, that it can't be admitted because it doesn't know how many of them are represented by minority representatives, or how many of them there are citizens who voted because the voter lists are messy, and according to the voter lists, they've voted. Now, you see, it's possible, and now it's in God's protection of minorities, and there's something more detailed about the elections that we want to talk about, and this final proposal. Therefore, this is one proposal of this kind of technical nature, but the real will for everything that has been bothering us and what has happened has been a disgrace to Croatia not only in Croatia but in Europe, of which we will not recover for a long time, nothing will be achieved. This is one proposal for naives and these are getting smaller in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72948	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72949	An incorrect colleague said that the state shipping company is prohibited from competing for the award of concessions on the Split-Supetar state line. Namely, everyone could compete and everyone was invited to the competition, but the private company the other gave the most favourable offer and the low price, that's what you said to your colleagues. Furthermore, the city of Split has completed an excellent and modern coalition and has concluded what is confirmed by numerous projects, progress, and after twenty-two years they have come up with a general urban plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72950	Dear Representative Ivan Vukic, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72951	I'm correcting my colleague's representative in the section in which she said there was a trade in mandates and business premises in the town of Karlovac. I ask her and her duty as a citizen if she knows that there was a trade in business premises to file a criminal report, but apparently that Karlovac loves and the basic rule of democracy is to respect the will of the majority. And the Croatian Democratic Union won the highest term in Karlovac. With your mandates, you wanted to trade, you signed the contract, you promised some people 15,000 euros, you didn't bring them in, and then the bitter ones moved on to us. And we signed the contract and gave it to the public to see it, it's not secret, it's signed and it's public day. And Carl's got you in a lot of pain about the friendship that was with Kragujevac before. I don't know why this Carlovian is so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72952	Dear Representative Josip Djakic is next in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72953	Mr. President, I will correct the inaccuracies of colleague Anticevic where she claimed that this proposal to amend and supplement the law will not solve anything very much. Namely, it will be defined and the Institute of Bianco resignations will be disabled. This is defined during the time until the Bianca resignation has to be verified by the public notary and until it has to be handed over before the Council meeting. In this way, at least something is regulated which is right and the council's will itself will be confirmed by its actual signature and by the public notary's certificate where the date will be visible when it is certified by the public notary and by the register of each regional unit or local unit when that resignation was received, whether it was three days before the meeting or not, as if it had resigned at least eight days before the meeting and verified it with the public notary. So, at least these things are defined and there's no waving the bianco resignations, neither the party nor anyone can keep their councilman under control anymore unless he realizes he's not needed and that this party doesn't work well and wants to get out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72954	Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72955	Thank you, Mr. President. Since counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic did not mention in her presentation that practically this bill extends the mandate to members of the council or representatives of national minorities until 2009, whether that means that you support this extension of two years or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72956	State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72957	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I just have to react to the thesis that Croatia was embarrassed in Brussels. Croatia has not been embarrassed, Croatia is a candidate country for membership in the European Union, it is conducting successful pre-accession negotiations and all who objectively assess Croatia's progress speak of major progress in all fields. Therefore, far from being embarrassed by Croatia. It's not ideal, but it gets better every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72958	Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72959	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I support amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional i.e. regional self-government. I think these changes will however be better regulated by the councilman's resignation, to avoid manipulation of the bianco resignations. The fact is that this will not achieve the transition of the councilman from camp to camp because the councilman's mandate is irrevocable and he belongs to a councilman, a political party or a coalition on whose list he is elected. But the manipulation of mandates we have more. We also have the manipulation of mandates and the change of voter's will and the transition from camp to camp, and it manipulates the council's mandates of representatives of national minorities, so the party replaces the minority representative of the majority people of Croatia. Then we no longer have adequate representation in the representative body. Then again, fill the mandate from that list and so are the party and here is the specific SDP in Sisak-Moslavina County deepened its thin majority. Unfortunately, this proposal does not regulate the amendments to the law, so let me also look back on the Carlovac since he has been mentioned twice. Thus, a simple coalition agreement between party representatives who received the most votes in the elections, the Croatian Democratic Community and the coalition partner is called a trade contract, and it is a simple coalition agreement that has been published. There were two failed attempts to form an executive, an attempt by the SDP where no funds were selected to bring the majority together. So one councilwoman made a public statement and it was made public in all the media that she was offered by the SDP to tell herself what she needed and how long did it take her to support the mayoral candidate from the SDP? She didn't say yes. In the end, all of this resulted in the decommissioning of the SDP organisation. They're all disbanded, dismembered, eventually accepted back just a few. And it was a kind of punishment that failed at all costs to form executive power in Karlovac. That's a fact. HDZ did it. This city government in Karlovac is successful and is doing a good job. But as for the very transition from camp to camp, I personally think that it will be avoided when we have direct elections, the owners of the executive authority. Because right in the election of executives, these manipulations happen. This law is certainly good for this transitional period, but when it is a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors, I believe that these problems will be much less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72960	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. He's gone, he loses his word first. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72961	Dear Mr. President, State Secretarys and Associates, colleagues and colleagues have just now been in the debate of clear and unequivocal facts from the mayors, mayors and mayors who have acted as authorities and who have just seen practical solutions in this bill proposal where it is very clear which reasons are and what will result from the adoption of this law. It is very clear and convincing, logically, that what was wanted to achieve after the recent media, and I would say the charms of local self-government in the binco resignations on the council's council mandate will be avoided by making these changes so that they will not be able to order a binaky resignation on the council's council mandate beyond the will of the elected councilman and thus allow elected councillors to exercise their constitutional and legal right to conduct the council duties elected under the law in the local elections. That is exactly how the will of the citizens will be respected, and the councilor will do his duty with dignity. It is said very precisely but, by example, in other institutes, that the written resignation of a member of the presidential body will be submitted in a certain manner as referred to in Article 1 of this proposal will need to be received no later than days before the scheduled holding of the session of the presidential body. Next, she'll be certified by a public notary. It is said very clearly as other contracts and other public documents must be certified by the public notary and here it is said to be at the earliest 8 days before the resignation. Furthermore, if the resignation is not lodged in this way, it will not produce a legal effect either. Another economic solution is that elections for members of the Council of National Minorities and representatives of national minorities are held together with regular elections for members of the presidential bodies of units of local and regional self-government. Of course, it is precisely the kind of consequences that will arise from the adoption of this law that are just talking about preventing the abuse of laws by individuals or political parties in order to block the work of administrative or representative bodies of municipal councils, city councils or county councils so that executive bodies chosen in the prescribed manner can be treated precisely by those tasks for which they are elected. What it also wishes to point out in relation to the previous proposed solutions, which were launched in January and in February, it concluded that in this final proposal of the law, it would give up the regulation of the withdrawal institute to file written resignations on the council mandate in the representative body of the unit of local or regional self-government, because the manipulation of the resignations and their signature would prevent the introduction of such written resignations certified by the public notary as well as by setting a deadline for certification. Therefore, this amendment should be made as soon as possible in order to protect the very will of the citizens who have been given in the elections in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72962	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic Now he was here, now he's gone. [[Intruder: Cancelling.]] Now he's losing his word. Final Review State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72963	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Local self-government as many problems as there are but still very well functioning in the Republic of Croatia. And today, speaking of local self-government problems, the functioning of representative bodies has actually been mentioned in two or three cases in circumstances in a country where there are nearly 600 units of regional or local self-government. There have been two, three or five doubting resignations or mandates under circumstances where nearly eight thousand members of the representative body are performing their mandate neatly. So unfortunately there will always be negative examples, but there will always be I believe bodies that will react to this and the political will to be even clearer rules of the game and that you, it is less than 0, maybe 0.1% of those who participate in political life who sometimes abuse their position. What's the alternative to this? The alternative is the rule of parties which could then trade with the mandates if the thesis that the term of office belongs exclusively to a representative body. However, we also wanted this law and to create conditions for the majority of members of national minorities to go to the elections and elect the councils of the national minority, representatives of national minorities. We wanted it in the favour of the council of national minorities, perhaps our intention is not the best, here you have received a proposal from the National Minority Representatives Club to, on the proposal to conclude that this proposal is being conducted by a third reading, I will have to consult the Government to take a position, because indeed our intention has been in favour of national minorities, in favour of achieving the constitutional law and we do not want to leave any doubt that we have no such intention. Here, thank you very much, Mr. President. So until the final vote we'll... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-04-0.u72964	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, first reading, at 9.30 p.m. State Secretary, Mr. Palarić, you are the first to start tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., i.e. your office is still the Youth Council Act as follows. Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In accordance with the proposal of the National Minority Club and the SDSS Representatives Club, I am voting on the next conclusion. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government will be followed by a third reading. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare a new text of the final proposal of the Law, respecting the amendments submitted and making observations and the proposal in the second reading of the Law. Therefore, the proposal is to conclude that this Law goes into third reading. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 80 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against the proposed conclusion.
