ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This report on the work I represent is extensive and prepared according to standard and in this Assembly the already accepted methodology. It contains statistical and other data on the work of the office, on the work and handling of complaints, on field work and cooperation with other bodies and associations and on the presentation and assessment of the degree of respect for human rights. But in addition to the warnings of the proposal and the recommendations addressed over the year to the ministries and other bodies of the administration, central and local, or the regional report in its final part, it also contains proposals required by the support of the representatives, which relate to the issue of the system or the most important issues whose solution is the presumption of more complete protection and the exercise of citizens' rights. And thus, for the important improvement of the relations between citizens and the state authorities, above all administrative and judicial. The main task of the Ombudsman is to protect citizens from illegal, irregular, but also poor work of the body of state and local administrations and other bodies with public authority by acting on complaints by citizens, primarily on complaints from citizens. When assessing the actions and acts of those bodies, the Advocate General, as well as the other Ombudsman institution in other countries, shall not be authorised to grant binding orders, nor to terminate or repeal acts. Its powers are to provide notices, warning proposals and recommendations, and the bodies to which they are addressed are to be manifested. When these bodies do not comply with the proposals, warnings or recommendations, the Ombudsman may inform the Croatian Parliament and the public, either through the annual report, which I am doing, either through special address directly or through the parliamentary committee, which we also did this year. It is therefore an additional, flexible and less formal, but faster and simpler protection that in a few cases can free citizens of a long-term and painful formal procedure or allow them to exercise their rights more quickly and fully. It is particularly important that the intervention of the Ombudsman is not only limited to the assessment of legality in a narrow sense, but also to respect the requirements of good and citizens of friendly administration and administrative practice, often from the point of view of the principle of justice and morality. Through such protection, the attorney general acts in two directions. It timely warns of possible threats and violations of rights and helps them achieve their full performance, but also contributes to democratic control of the administration, thus improving it and improving it. On the effects and results, including problems in the achievement of this task, this report contains sufficient information and will not repeat them in this introductory presentation. Just a few of the most important. Enough to say that the Office acted in 2005, which means it opened cases of 2 thousand 433 written complaints. Of which a thousand 653 new ones received in 2005. Directly upon arrival, the Office addressed 746 citizens, and over the phone the Office addressed dozens of citizens daily. The number of complaints received in 2005 was lower compared to 2004 and 2003 when the occupier under the programme financed through the donation of the Norwegian Government and through the OSCE mission visited the counties and local units affected by war events and directly received complaints there. And that current number corresponds to an earlier multi-year average. These data speak eloquently about the importance and role of field work and the need for the presence of the occupier and local environments, in order to enable citizens who need this direct access. Confirmation of this importance is also the number of complaints this year of persons deprived of liberty which has been increased four times this year, and after a visit to prisons, penitentiary and educational institutions. I don't need to remind the Parliament because you've been making a budget that the Attorney General hasn't received funds this year for a tour of the county either. So I hereby inform the Parliament that I am in negotiations and with one preliminary contract this year with the OSCE mission trying to obtain funds for the tour of the counties through a donation from the Norwegian Government. First tour we have next week, we're going to Sisak-Moslavina County. As for the complaints, statistics show that the largest number of complaints about the consequences of the war is still the fall of the former state. These are complaints from the area of pension and disability insurance. This includes those from an interstate contract, so persons who have acquired pensions are interned in several former republics. Then these are issues of restoration, return of property and other property rights and of status and social rights. The long-term sustainability of administrative resolution remains the most common cause of complaints in these powers, pension-inhabitation, property-law relations of reconstruction, construction and spatial arrangement, and that in the first instance in the second instance in particular. In a secondary procedure in some areas, the appeal procedure instead of those legal 2 months takes 2 to 3 years or more. And unfortunately permanently. In addition to the long-term nature of the procedure, citizens are often complaining that they do not receive answers to their questions and suggestions, nor are they aware of the reasons why these procedures last so long, or when at least I can expect solutions. Unlike the citizens, the truth is worth saying, that the general public defender is generally given an indication and answers to his questions especially when he addresses the ministries and other heads of the central state bodies. The report shows that the relationship and co-operation with the central administrative authorities has improved significantly with the above-mentioned exceptions, which can't be said for all the district services and some local units. It is also evident from the report that many interventions by the Ombudsman have resulted in long-term proceedings and citizens have received either the requested act or a valid explanation, which is why it is not yet possible to do so. All this says that many state and local authorities still treat citizens more with the position of government than they are responsible public service, because if citizens’ demands are often not settled legally or reasonably, and that citizens are not informed of the reasons for this, nor of the deadlines when they can expect a solution, it clearly states that these bodies and officials do not respect the citizens and feel responsible for them. It is therefore necessary to tighten the responsibility of the administration to the citizens of particularly senior officials and to make it clear that, in order to resolve cases and requests of citizens other than direct perpetrators, all officials and officials, including ministers and other heads of central administrative bodies, are personally responsible. It is worrying, and somewhat paradoxical, that while we note the increasing co-operation of the ministries with the Ombudsman, at the same time the direct relations of the administration and citizens do not change significantly for the better. We therefore propose and seek the support of the Committee for Proposals and Recommendations, which are primarily aimed at creating some important assumptions for a more appropriate and legal relationship between citizens and administrations. We consider it time to apply the provision of Article 296 without exception. The General Administrative Procedure Act, which, after the expiry of the legal time limit for resolution, must be notified to the parties of the reasons for which the matter is not resolved and the actions to be taken for resolution purposes. In that sense, from the beginning of this year, we have been making such a request to all the ministries, following complaints from citizens, that they are obliged to inform the citizens directly in order to avoid all the procedures surrounding the silence of the administration, the address to the Ombudsman, the Assembly, the committees, etc. Secondly, we think that on behalf of property renovations, pension and disability, construction in certain cases would be either in the first degree or even more frequently in the second degree of appeal, that we should adopt programmes to address the backlogs and improve the urgency, and that, for objective reasons, this is not possible because of the lack of personnel, material resources, specific obstacles to the complexity of the rules, we should inform the government and the public accordingly. Thirdly, services and departments in ministries and central state bodies which resolve complaints should be strengthened as well as trained to provide professional assistance and control of first-degree bodies, as well as to resolve cases in a metric manner whenever justified and possible. We still have multiple suspensions, a return to retrial when that is not justified, and it should not be legally possible. And as a fourth, a fundamental assumption for systematic monitoring and evaluation of the work of the administration from top to bottom is the re-establishment of systematic records in the resolution of administrative matters through unique information processing and data management. The initial step should be to adopt a guideline, a guideline referred to in Article 298(3). The General Administrative Procedure Act, which requires the Secretary of State of the Central Government to prescribe a single methodology, patterns and deadlines for the delivery of data as well as the obligations of the central authorities in relation to the regional administrative bodies. Finally, as a general assumption of better work of the administration in terms of professionalism, quality and motivation, I cited the need to reduce pay gaps, especially those of the most educated and professional in the state administration compared to those of other services and economies, but also of employees in the district and local units, as well as the need of, of course, the interruption of the vicious circle in many areas, the setting of politically similar and personally loyal after any change in the elections or even the change of the minister or other head of the governing body. This would, of course, not apply to the law of the prescribed function. I also warned of what is known and what is often referred to in the Assembly and the need for further decentralisation and rapid transfer of administrative jobs and financial resources towards already passed regulations at a local and regional level closer to and directly responsible bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, although the report on the debate contains a total of 160 cards, the text page, of which at least 150 applies to the state and local administration, those few pages that look back on complaints and the situation in the judiciary, and this time have been the most public attention. In that section as last year, I warned of the number of complaints about the work of the courts that citizens are referring to the Ombudsman, although it is known that there is no power over the administrative authorities in relation to the courts. I also assessed that the long-term duration of court proceedings remains one of the main problems of the Croatian judiciary, but of course also Croatian citizens, and that the effectiveness of the measures provided for by the new Court Act is a judicial inspection that has no other authority than it has had in the ministry until now and of course as regards cases before regular courts for overcoming a reasonable period of time. It is also a measure that is necessary and necessary, but will not in itself solve the problem of the long-term process. However, what I find very important to stress is that we have very positively assessed the measures to resolve the remaining cases and monitor the work of the judges who, at the end of last year, began to exercise the Supreme Court in cooperation with the county courts, in my opinion... correctly interpreting their tasks and powers. I expect that these measures will become a permanent system of monitoring and assessing the work of all courts and judges, as this is the only way to take effective measures all of these removals from the system of judges who cannot meet the necessary standards, quality and impartiality. I have advocated full support to the Supreme Court particularly personnel and materially convinced that the best way for more up-to-date and better work of courts and judges is a good judicial administration and good judicial management and that primary and fundamental control using all the powers of the law should be established within the judicial system primarily and not outside it. Only in the end, and not most importantly, did I repeat last year's proposal to consider certain forms of control under citizens' complaints as added protection against the length of proceedings and irregular treatment in the affairs of the judicial administration as a model for many European countries to entrust themselves to the Ombudsman as the authority of the Croatian Parliament. The council's main position on the matter could be the basis for resolving the issue on possible and likely changes to the Constitutional and Legal Status of the Ombudsman. We also held that the length of court proceedings, although largely caused and reasons outside the judiciary, is the consequence of the human rights situation in the judiciary. I reminded myself of the well-known and uncontested fact that the re-nomination of all judges by the first State Judicial Council after the adoption of the Law on Courts of 93, a number of high-quality and experienced judges, and that at the same time a number of judges were appointed also under the criteria of political similarity and loyalty and interest groups rather than according to the criteria of expertise and impartiality. The assessment was given by the best Constitutional Court by abolishing several dozen such decisions, which also identified the lack of the necessary criteria for the appointment and promotion of judges. Therefore, even today, there are also non-professional, but also from the point of view of the impartialities of the questionable judges because they are neither named by the criteria of expertise and impartiality but by the links with political, financial and other interest groups. Although few in relation to the total number of judges, these judges have a significant impact on the overall poor image and perception of the judiciary and the judicial profession. The continuity of judges doesn't mean their untouchableness either. As well as other duties and professions, judges must be subject to the assessment of their ability to meet the standards of quality and impartial trial. For the independence of the judiciary and judges, it is important that the system of monitoring, evaluation and elimination function within the judicial system. The presidents of the courts play their part in this, the State Judiciary Council, but also the Association of Judges. If this system does not function, it is not unrealistic to expect it to strengthen pressure from the outside, which for the independence of the judiciary does not always have to be the best. In this context, I believe that the Association of Croatian Judges should also consider such warnings and proposals to be well-intentioned and in the interest of independence and independence of the judiciary. In complaints to the Ombudsman, citizens generally do not state nationality or ethnic origin even though there are fewer complaints about discrimination on a national basis regarding employment, labour rights, status issues and police behaviour. For the protection of collective rights, minority members mainly address other specialised bodies. However, in that part of the complaints on the work and handling of the administration, particularly due to the length of the procedure, there is a large share of complaints from citizens of Serbian nationality, in particular in matters of reconstruction, return of property, housing, status issues and pension-inhabitation insurance, in which the share goes up to 70%. The work of the Advocate General and the problems that arise in these areas are detailed in the specific section of the Report. Despite the results of the return of assets and the renewal in which appeal proceedings continue to take too long, and only initial actions and housing activities, it should be said that there is still a bureaucratic and inappropriate and illegal conduct of administrative officials, more at both regional and local than at national level. It seems that some of them still do not understand or accept that it is Croatian citizens, equal to the law, but also people who, years after the war, still cannot create the basic conditions for life and integration in Croatian society. In this respect, the role of police as well as of all local authorities that must ensure full security and protection from incidents motivated by ethnic intolerance is important. An increased number of such incidents in the second half of 2005 warns and requires not only public condemnation, but also top state bodies and officials, as well as concrete organisational and legal measures. Returns, renovations and housing are only the initial elemental conditions. In addition, it is necessary to promote the atmosphere or to stimulate the inclusion of returnees in political and economic life through political representation, employment, in particular in the state and local administration and justice, and the exercise of other rights under the Constitutional Law. Although some estimates do not indicate that the overall situation in this regard deteriorated compared to earlier years, it should be said that in some powers the situation does not improve quickly enough and thoroughly for a democratic country at the door of the European Union and that Serbs and Serbs remain a category of population that requires full national and social attention. When it comes to other categories of population requiring full national and social attention, you have also noticed that there is probably no part of this year's report dealing with Roma issues. That is precisely because we are not a general institution for the protection of human rights but which is our fundamental task to act on citizens' complaints. We have no complaints from Roma citizens about this, and we, along with all the other specialised institutions, did not consider it particularly necessary to address it. I would just like to warn the part that describes the tour of the Međimurje County where I was warned by the National Minority Office, where statements by Roma representatives there have been quoted, that these are not views and statements, i.e. the views of the Ombudsman. These parts of the report were given in the form of a actually shortened record where in some ways only exposed what was said there. I have already in last year's report estimated that it is paradoxical that in Međimurje County, which may have done the most about Roma, there is a perception that it is there, that Roma are the most dissatisfied. This is simply not true, and that part of the report should be observed in this regard. In addition to complaints of illegal or irregular work, as well as the length of proceedings before the authorities of the state administration, more and more citizens are addressing the Ombudsman by pointing to the violation and threat of labour and social rights and warning of the general state of social uncertainty of certain categories and layers of the population. Citizens are mainly referred to constitutional principles and rights to work, health care, social security and a decent life. The most vulnerable categories are unemployed, then black employees, part of employees of those employers who systematically violate the rights of employees and pensioners with lowest incomes, especially newly retired after the entry into force of the new Peace Act, since 99. In addition to the unemployed most vulnerable categories, they are employed by employers who permanently and systematically violate their legal regulations, without sufficient control and protection of the competent state authorities. So, inspection and other administrative services. Unfortunately, court proceedings for the protection of labour rights are also inadmissible for a long time and do not constitute an effective means of legal protection. Pensioners warn of an unfavourable pension ratio towards average salaries and the fact that low pensions that do not cover normal living costs continue to lag behind on cost growth, especially utility services. Therefore, the number of pensions and the most poor's assets is increasing. There are also a large number of complaints about unwarranted differences in the amount of pensions of the same categories between the so-called so-called so-called pensions. The old and new pensioners, it's not just a social issue and a question of poverty, it's a question of equality and justice because it's hard to explain to people that only the retirement date under the same conditions under which the one who left 6 months earlier is less than 20.30%. It is not disputed that these important issues cannot be addressed only by social measures and redistribution, but it is nevertheless necessary to warn of the threshold of social sustainability of those categories, but also unfortunately also of the lowest income employees. If trends do not change in this regard, and the state has a small role to play there, pressures on redistribution in favour of greater social equality and therefore citizens rightly expect these issues to take a central place in social political debates. Finally, in last year's report, we warned the Croatian Assembly of a multiannual deficit in the human resources and material development of the institution of the occupier, which is repeatedly lagging behind the same or relevant countries in our comparable countries. We have indicated that the budget of the Ombudsman is also at stake and the level of protection of the rights of citizens, not to mention the new commitments set out in the 2000 changes. In particular, this refers to the possibility of working on the ground without which, unfortunately, the access of a large number of citizens is difficult and impossible. The report therefore proposed a plan to strengthen the institution by 2008, which envisioned an increase in the budget for 2006. 7 of the new employees, which the Assembly agreed on in its June 3rd conclusion, obliging the government to secure the funds accordingly. Despite the explicit and unambiguous conclusion, the Ministry of Finance prepared a draft, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed an increase of 11% compared to 2005 without accepting even the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities which proposed an increase for the office in order to at least partially respect the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. Finally, but no less importantly, I would like to warn in an inappropriate way that, in the process of preparing the draft and the draft budget, the constitutional, but also the parliamentary institution of the Ombudsman. I don't know if it's the same treatment for other constituencies and institutions. I find it unacceptable that the attorney general's budget until the high stage of preparation for the proposal before the Government is prepared by the Ministry of Finance without consulting and cooperation with the Ombudsman directly or through the parliamentary committees. I particularly find it unacceptable not to discuss in the budgets of such parliamentary institutions the parent committees of the Croatian Parliament not in front of the Parliament's sitting itself but rather before setting out the proposal in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, the adoption procedure for 2006 from the position of the Ombudsman was inappropriate, and given the mentioned conclusion of the assembly session and inadmissible. The draft was prepared without the participation of the attorney general, and the parent board received it for discussion in... , after setting out a proposal in the Government when nothing could be applied to the amendment either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore not too much to say that the budget of the Ombudsman is actually set in the Ministry of Finance of the Governing Body, whose work and conduct is based on the Constitution to monitor on behalf of the Croatian Parliament. I therefore ask the Croatian Parliament to do whatever is necessary to ensure that the parliamentary bodies, and not the authorities of the state administration, have a decisive impact on the budget of the Ombudsman, and thus on his overall work and activities. From the point of view of the government's division and the constitutional role of the Croatian Parliament, such practice would be more appropriate and useful. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66120	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, president of the Committee, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66121	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2005 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament at the 53rd session held on 9 May 2006 by the Croatian Ombudsman. The Committee shall, on the basis of its section of Article 57, take the view of the Committee's work. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this report as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee found that the Ombudsman had submitted a report in accordance with Article 8. The law of the Attorney General. In the debate, the Committee supported the activities of the Ombudsman in the report, in particular with regard to ensuring the protection of the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in procedures conducted in the bodies of the state administration and the protection of human rights in prisons, penitentiary offices and educational institutions. The Committee maintains that the situation in the judiciary is a complex problem and considers it to be an inadequate and overly harsh assessment of the Ombudsman's staff that it is the cause of an unsatisfactory situation in the judiciary to resolve judges after the adoption of the Law on Courts in 1993 and the appointment of inexperienced and politically similar judges. The Committee considers that, on the occasion of the adoption of the national budget for a year, it is necessary to take into account that, on the basis of the proposed plan of the Advocate General and in accordance with the possibilities, financial resources for the activities of the Ombudsman are provided. A member of the Committee, a colleague of Dragutin Lesar, proposed that the Committee propose a conclusion which would oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report on the execution of the conclusions adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the occasion of the adoption of a report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2004 which the Committee did not accept because only two members voted in favour of the conclusion. In this regard, a fellow Member of the Committee requested that Article 51 be applied. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament singled out his opinion by holding that the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not act according to the above conclusions. After that, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament that a report by the Ombudsman for 2005 be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66122	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Justice, Labour, Social Policy and Health, Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Immigration. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić on behalf of the Committee on Immigration.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66123	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Immigration held on 18 May 2006 at the 22nd session of the Committee discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman in an act of 31 March 2006. The Committee discussed the report as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the longer discussion of the part of the report relating to issues raised by the Committee, the committee members estimated that the reports by the Ombudsman from year to year show the same gap resulting from the inadequate methodology in the preparation of the report. The report shows no basis for complaints against citizens or reports can be compared. In fact, every year the report says that the number of cases has increased because the occupier was more accessible to the citizens and raises the question of how many cases would it be if the vacancy lawyer were more accessible to people and that he visited more counties or visited them more frequently. In the debate, the members of the committee held the opinion that it is necessary to extend the vacancy of the Ombudsman to the work of the courts because the judiciary is not outside the law and can reasonably be asked about the effectiveness of the judiciary. In the debate, all members expressed great dissatisfaction with the work of the Office for Inspection and Administrative Affairs of the Ministry of Interior and some diplomatic representations addressed by the parties with requirements for the exercise of their legal rights. This applies in particular to requests for permanent stay and admission to Croatian citizenship. It is not a comforting explanation of the representatives of the MUP who reject criticism by the lack of people and financial resources because the number of complaints brought by the Constitutional Court against the resolution of the MUP and the judgment of the Administrative Court to which the Administrative Court accepts the failures of the administration. The Administrative Court shall repeal any other administrative act issuing the ministries because the State and local administration are literally in breach of or do not worry about the Administrative Procedure Act. And with existing human resources, human resources and resources, the above-mentioned management of the MUP should better technically agree and be more efficient. The attitude of civil servants is also uncommonly such that they treat the parties as monopolies who, without sufficient argument, reject and resolve them in fact by not actually respecting the legal deadlines or decisions of the Administrative Court and do not adhere to the principles of the Administrative Procedure Act. They do not inform users of legal opportunities that are more favourable for users. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The ZUP will worry that the ignorance of both the party and the other persons participating in the procedure will not be to the detriment of the rights which they belong to under the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The ZUP is prescribed that an official who conducts the procedure is obliged, where appropriate, to alert the party to its rights in the proceedings and to point out the legal consequences of its actions and failures in the procedure. Instead of teaching uninformed parties, officials rarely find ways to make it literally difficult for the parties to acquire permanent residence and citizenship and how to actually refuse the requirement of those who truly meet the conditions for obtaining Croatian citizenship. Most of the difficulties arise from members of the Croatian people who submit requests pursuant to Articles 16 and 30. Law on Croatian citizenship. For unlawful refusal of a request, no one shall be liable as well as for the damage to these parties. The severe consequences of poor organisation and work of the Department of Inspectors and Administrative Affairs are most affected by those who are the poorest because they cannot get Croatian citizenship within the legal period. Inhabitant families are forced from monthly salary to allocate part of the funds for additional health insurance of their own children. Such behaviour by the administrative authorities towards citizenship does not, unfortunately, change and last and requires certain changes. This is also shown by reports from the Committee on Immigrants in earlier reports by the Ombudsman. Only those who, from time to time, are forced to intervene and jump in order to solve an individual object are changed. Are the causes of such a change in the law in the ignorance of officials? When proof of belonging to the Croatian people is sought only and exclusively from older public documents in which the party declared itself to the Croatian or Croatian, or in the ignorance of the Law on Administrative Procedure, it could not be determined in the debate. The deputy attorney-general pointed out that proof of membership can also be established to witnesses and not only old public documents but it should be borne in mind that many Croats did not have the opportunity to declare themselves to Croats before and now in public documents. Due to unwarranted negative demands, the parties are forced to launch administrative dispute at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, wait for a solution to the Administrative Court for several years and then at least another year for a new solution to the MUP. A question has been asked about the justification of rejecting a full-aged member of a family whose parents did not have Croatian background and the full-time progeny of the family is declared to be members of the Croatian people. The MUP has regularly addressed such requests in recent years negatively. The consequences are that parents have Croatian citizenship on the basis of origin and the other is based on marriage and adult children have to remain with foreign citizenship. The debate held the belief that rules and guidelines that prevent the application of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, such as, for example, nowhere in the published regulation, which determines that emigrants should be considered only those who have moved out of the Republic of Croatia for economic reasons between the two wars, two world wars. Therefore, the wife and adult children of emigrants from Croatia to Macedonia or Montenegro cannot obtain Croatian citizenship on the basis of Article 11 but on the basis of that same article can be granted Croatian citizenship spouse and children of Croats who have moved to Peru or, say, Paraguay, United Arab Emirates, Syria, Iraq, Iran etc. After the discussion, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the conclusion that a report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2004 was accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66124	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66125	Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General with his assistants, I see you're in complete composition, and there's also a representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman's institution is indeed a very important institution in our system and we must work on its affirmation as much as possible. From year to year, it seems to me that in these reports we are attaching increasing importance and that the discussions are increasingly high-quality and the conclusions we draw in this House. The Attorney General is our attorney, in a way our extended hand in communication with citizens with state authorities, with bodies that have public authority, with local self-government and public defender in that direct practice sees how the system works and he daily communicates with citizens, looks at the problems that are present on the ground. He sees the difficulties our citizens have in achieving and protecting their rights against these state bodies. And therefore he may best feel how the system works. He might be the best of us to see where the problems are? See where you need to make certain improvements? Where do you need to make some changes? And that's why these reports are very important and these reports point to where things need to be changed, where things should be changed? But I have to say one other thing. We are missing one other thing in this House. We lack one full report on the functioning of our state bodies. That's because we don't have one report on how our ministries operate? Our county offices? How many years do they solve administrative cases? How many of these items, what time have they solved? Because this is to be honest, one collection of complaints. This is a collection to say pay, a collection of difficulties that people face that, of course, has no insight into all those things where people actually exercise their rights. In which they correctly protect their interests and only when we face this, to say the real report, could we have the right picture. I don't want to reduce the value of this because this really points to a series of problems that are in practice, but I think in the coming years, it seems to me that it would be good through our Central State Office to make one such report. To collect data from all ministries on the state of the resolved cases received. That's what we have in the judiciary. In the judiciary, we know exactly how many unsolved cases we have. We know exactly how long it takes in a single case for him to get rid of it. We don't have that in the management area. Of course management is far wider. Management is really a very wide area and such a single report would be a real problem and make it. However, the Advocate General also pointed out here the obligation of the Central State Office to make a regulation, to make a regulation that prescribes these reports on the state of resolution of these cases. When we have that, then we'll see a series of things that I mean the good things that happen in our administration, and if we're going to judge our administration just by this, then actually, the picture of it is pretty black. However, we also witnessed various articles in the newspaper where people were satisfied. I remember a few years ago when the one on the highway, at the exit of the highway at Popovaca where one investor was doing a huge project, seemed to me to be a cattle food factory, the largest for this part of Europe which was extremely commendable was expressed that all the documentation was received in time and that it was actually very urgent and how very high-quality it was. Of course, such examples are not going to come to the public defender because they have no reason to come to him, do they? They're satisfied. And I believe there are a lot of people whose cases are dealt with quite correctly and very quickly. The very fact that in 2005, the Ombudsman received 1600 and some complaints, so one 500 less than a year earlier, is not a fact for me to open champagne because if we add all these complaints that we, as assembly representatives on the ground, get and who we're trying to help people, we'd really see a lot of people coming across that one, to that one wall of administration, the wall of administration. The report is proverbial, I would say traditionally well done. As every year, it provides a very specific picture of what is happening on the ground. It's very detailed in all areas. The details describe some examples that illustrate the key problems that are happening here and therefore commendation for the methodology and way of reporting itself, and what I think should be continued in the coming years. What seems to me very important and positive in the work of the attorney general is to contact the heads of state. This means when he sees the problem he asks to organise a meeting at the Ministry's level where it is presented and where in one direct way the Head of the Ministry and other state bodies presents the problem, where certain quality solutions are sought and I think that such a way of working can certainly contribute to one quality and to one of our real goals, which is the fields of administration. I would divide the report into two parts, which is one of the first parts and the fundamentals actually which is, and that is the functioning of the administration where very detailed and very precise according to the specialized parts are given and the number of complaints which have been filed both the forms and the difficulties that they are. As for the functioning of the administration, I think we all know what kind of administration we want here? We want an efficient administration, we want a professional administration, we want a cheap administration, and that is the goal and programme of every political party that participates in this House. However, we can see from these complaints that there are phenomena that the procedures are long-term. We see that in some ways, people are very difficult to exercise their rights and there is also a part that the Ombudsman has well rated, and this is also poor equipment in our administration. They have also been warned, and we have also been warned of poor wages, the underestimation of those high professional staff who are in the administration. I have to say that this speaker has already been here for the third year in a row, and I am in favour of rewarding our people better in the administration because I have said that several times, if you look at the tax administration, an inspector who has to have a high level of expertise, who must have passed a state expert exam, who must really be very educated to do his job. Which very often in the field is not pleasant at all, I think the wages range between 4 and 5 thousand kuna depending on the years of his internship. That's something we're really not going to attract good personnel with. This is something that in the future we really need to take all the measures to get into the state administration of quality and good people because the state administration is, of course, the foundation of state functioning and law enforcement. As far as the administration itself is concerned, if we compete with the judiciary we see that there is indeed a lot of positive happening in the judiciary in the term of office before the government and in these two and a half years there has been a number of legal changes and those procedural ones, the Law on litigation has changed, and in the administrative procedure that we do not actually have such trends. The Law on Administrative Procedure does not change for many years although we have different conditions in which we work, we have different requests from the parties, so on the other hand, I think that the Administrative Procedure Act would be well-warned, provide some opportunities that offer new technological opportunities, and also related to delivery and communication with the parties, and we will certainly have to do so in the coming period because we see that this government has done a lot in informing our administrative bodies, and information will certainly increase the efficiency and quality and speed of work. That's what our citizens need. In his report, the Advocate General touched on the good work of the judiciary here and although it is not within its constitutional jurisdiction. However, as he has received and received all these years a series of complaints about the work of the judiciary I think it is also good that he gave his testimony. I don't have to say that with one part of his assessment of the situation in the judiciary, we can't agree in particular on the part where it's said that one of the most significant or not the most significant cause of a bad situation in the judiciary in 1993, the Law on Courts, the replacement of high-quality judges. Setting up politically similar, inexperienced judges and that is one of the fundamental causes of this situation in the judiciary that we have. I don't want to say that there's not one part that's true in '93. the year really happened, there was a change in the whole system. We need to know that judges until the 1990s named them the former congregations of the municipalities. All of them had to be party members, all of them had to be politically committed, and when the system was changing in such changes it was likely that it had been killed and it was likely that a part of the judges who were good, who were doing well, who applied the laws that were in force at the time. But as you yourself have said, those who have opened and who have sought judicial protection have also succeeded in these actions and therefore have not been denied that protection. However, the new system, of course, makes new rules, and I think that the judges who were then appointed to be appointed in a legal procedure, under legal conditions, and so I don't think that the blame for the worse situation in the judiciary should be imposed on them. I am pleased that you have affirmed and that you see the fact that in the judiciary there are events and positive things, because indeed in these few years in the area of justice, a lot has been done and I must say that we have been in a delegation of the Croatian Parliament in Brussels where we participated in a conversation with representatives of the European Parliament and I can say that it has been very pleasant to be a representative of Croatia in those days. Because the evaluations that the representatives of the European Parliament have said very positively to everything that is happening in the judiciary and they are very awake and, of course, they see everything that is happening with us. You yourself have welcomed this measure to monitor those proceedings and cases that are long-term, that the Supreme Court, within its jurisdiction, is taking all measures to relieve those courts that are burdened and that cases are distributed to less-loaded courts. It's a way of working that the State's Attorney's Office has reached a very high level of urgency. We also see that the courts are being informed in recent years. Land-book suits are now almost all digitalized. It is very easy to exercise insight into ownership rights. It's easier to sign up for ownership than it's ever been before. The court advisors got much greater powers, but what I used to say here was a little bit of a problem seems to me in one mentality, in one way of working, so I would say that it just goes back to the 1990s, which is actually that in the process it doesn't go into the measure of things, but actually, like a ringishipil, we're spinning around the metrics and a variety of processal actually, we're stalling procedures that take a long time. However, in that part, we have a judicial academy that has been working very many years on the education of judges and it is all together one process that will not be able to finish so quickly and that is one problem that cannot be solved overnight. You have also pointed very well to the problem of free legal aid and this is something that we have already received from the ministry as a sign that it is in preparation for this law. Something similar might have to be in the administration itself. As I see my time running out, the Croatian Democratic Community Club respects all these remarks made to the functioning of the system. We're taking note of this report. We are bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We ask the resolution ministries and their leaders to take all necessary measures to ensure that these phenomena are observed here and listed here are reduced to as little measure as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66126	Thank you. SDSS Club, Honored Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66127	Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will at first, because I have the need to express my support to the attorney general and his associates not only because we have a report here that is well done in my opinion, but also because we have grades in it that point exactly where we need to and because the Ombudsman here has expressed a firm and courageous attitude precisely in relation to the issues that are important, which talk about whether the system works and which we have to fix together. And that's why I'm not going to talk about that praise, I think it deserves support and deserves respect precisely because of the content, method, and mostly because of the attitude expressed by it. I'm going to say a few things here that seem important to me, and they represent some kind of commentary and support to the report itself. The attorney general points to irregularities in the functioning of the state apparatus. One time administrative, another time court, etc. And when we look at the report, then it's not the problem, or it's not the key to whether we have 500 cases or a thousand and five hundred cases, or two thousand and 500 cases. It's about the fact that the report and the people who have done it in an illustrative way say important things in which they are procedurally and essentially deciding on the rights and obligations of people we have a feller. That means there's a feller in the functioning of the state. And first of all, we need to consider that as a key diagnosis, as an important diagnosis. Now, according to these segments how they're given, and besides that, I'll say a few of the following things. First, this inconsistency or irregularity in the administrative procedure. The Advocate General is a matter of administrative procedure, since in this procedure it is considered important to say that in the largest amount it decides on the rights and obligations of the people. And now, you have rightly said, Mr. Marusic, that is where the principle of justice and decency should be pursued. The administrative procedure of the Law on Administrative Procedure prescribes several important things that we must somehow have as a guide. He's talking about precise procedure, he's talking about a proof procedure that must be respected just as it says in the law, he's talking about deadlines that involve efficiency, he knows the urgency of the case, he knows the way things are done by official duty when something needs to be obtained, he knows the role of authority, he knows the proper attitude towards the party. Of course there's an officer who's okay with all that. But there are even more officers and offices in it that are not quite right. I can tell you now, individually, where in one city they recognize power of attorney, in another city, they don't recognize that power of attorney, and it's the same policy, for example. Now, another thing I want to mention. It is, we have, now I will not speak areas of special concern everywhere, but overall taking, where the problems are greatest there is the establishment of the administration worst. And there's what's prescribed by the Law of Administrative Procedure there is that, there's the worst. And there are ordinary little people in the largest number on the counter smaller than the cat's grains. One time at the police station, another at the post office counter. It's the same, the same procedure should apply. I don't think I can build here, nor can we make an inventory of individual cases, or the conduct of individual officials, or the conduct of an individual central management office. But on the trail of what Bosnjakovic said, there is a need to make an inventory all over the verticals. So let's see what's there. It's simply because the system needs to be fixed. Another thing I want to comment on, this issue of judicial and legal protection. How much, I'm going to isolate two things that seem important to me. In the case of judges or in court practice, two key problems are in my opinion. He's the first judge or judges, because you can talk about plural, you don't have the civic and professional courage to stand up to some decision on the criteria of justice. And they act the way, if I'm wrong, I won't mind, if I'm wrong, they'll fix the one upstairs at the higher instance. It is formally so, but in practice it is not often so. Is the reasons for such indecision, whether the reasons for such calculations are the ones that Mr. Malcic pointed out here in the process of naming judges, I don't know if they're in general. But the good part is. I'm sure the good part is. And now another thing that can be tied to the courts. You know, we were talking about the Law of Courts saying the autonomy of the judiciary, the role of the president, and then we talked about the speech, and we equipped the courts with everything that they can play, their role in the right way. Now, the president of the court is some kind of management. So it's a match for what's done there. He needs to see how many emergencies there are, how many are behind, where we are in our statistics. Therefore, the judiciary and the issue of management in court, we do not think of it properly. And we don't force people who are responsible for doing it the right way. And so are we, and that's why when I connect both the administration and the judiciary system in that thing weeds in an old-fashioned way. It doesn't work at what level we need right now, what we need at this stage to say social relations in the country. And even more, according to that standard of justice and decency. Next thing you know, it's tanging this report. I'm going to mention the thing that I've witnessed these days, which I could actually say is startling. Uh, first of all, the Podunavlje has made a big deal about buying apartments for those people, or for those people, or for those people who have the right to do it. And there's a total of about 3,000 cases. I and some other people had to dig up the government's 98th decision and the 99th government's decision to regulate it. The people who are in the ministry say it's not there or we don't know about it. And now that it's forgotten, they're classified in the housing category, so in a whole other proposition and there's a public argument about it. I don't understand, now what's the consequence. The consequence is we've made improvisations. Improvisation becomes a practice in seven years. So improvised illegality has become a practice, and for all there are standards, decisions that just need to be maintained and I don't understand it. I actually understand, like, I can even understand it as manipulation, and I can understand it as fraud because there are people who probably wanted to. The third thing, the fourth thing I want to mention here. When it comes to the rights of small people, now I'm going to stand out a little bit of what the administration is and what the judiciary is. I'm going to list here three things that also pinch it, the easiest way to say it. First restrictions because there's no money. I've been taking part in some of the conversations about it these days, so let's get people on the electricity that's been asking for 10 years, and in HEP we're struggling to raise 50 million to do one war, one number of people who are going to get electricity this year, and they're going to be there another year behind and another year after that. You understand? 50 million is a problem, and I know some headlines that leaked so many 50 million I dare say for less needs or at least for less elemental needs. Or that same HEP says in those costs let the cost of a 3 thousand kuna connection enter. Well, I guess that's when I had the power, I guess it's someone who owes me a rescheduling. Another thing that's a restriction on the right of an ordinary man, by not applying the law. My colleagues from the minority club are struggling to implement some of the provisions of the Constitutional Law on minority rights or participation or employment or bilingualism, it's also quite clear, but it's not going to work. The third thing that is a violation of rights is a restriction by, or by, the will of local authorities. By the will of the local authorities. In one municipality, the head of the municipality of people who have received a solution to have the right to rebuild the puppy says you can't build a house there. Therefore, the recovery solution reached by the ministry cannot be implemented, and now a whole mechanism of political pressure is needed to satisfy man. And I'm going to end up, and I'm going to say this because of the desire that what the Attorney General and his office point to is that we're fixing fellers in the system, everywhere where we are, and everywhere we're obliged, and wherever we can right now and in many ways, so my story or my illustration is governed to see that the wheeler is in the system and to put the thing, so let's give it that level of seriousness. And that's why I think we all have to stand behind this report in a way that we can detect the problem of the system and that we're all responsible not only for the attorney general. I liked what Mr. Bosnjakovic said, the attorney general is our extended arm. We have to use that extended arm more or we have to use it in a better way especially when it's a hand, and my assessment is that it is, so good, and I think it's good. And that's why I think this report should be accepted as good, you'd even say no exceptions, but also as a source through which we need to see our responsibility and then correct what it says here because it's kind of about a continuous story in the last two or three reports. In the end, I do have a need, although it may not be common, to side with the attorney general and some of his public assessment of the situation in the judiciary because I think he's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66128	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this report by considering it very high-quality, first and foremost because of the content that includes the examination and the view of what has affected people, and then it seems most important to me, because of the pure, clear and principled views of the civil defender exactly as it should be from the person who behaves and expects. So who's talking to the attorney general? If we look at these numbers of those and they don't sound impressive, 1600 and some of the items, it's not some terrible number, but let's imagine a little bit, it's 1600 and some of those people that the system left hanging out, who didn't find another way through the system, according to which the administration was cruel, arrogant, rude, late, ignored them, according to which the judiciary wasn't just, according to which the police weren't correct, which the employer cheated and no one helped them, and so on. So 1600 people whose fate is actually turned to the wrong side because of the failure of certain government systems. It is precisely the position of the attorney general to try to help these people as far as possible and at the very least to warn the authorities of the state, and through this House and the public about what is happening to people. That's the essential part, that's the measure of things. It should also be commended to the form of a report that is transparent and clear and has something that material of this kind must have, which is the contents of the back. It shows the will and intention of those who made up the material to give opportunity to people who got it to actually read and see what was in it. If there's no content on the 160 pages no one normal with normal nerves can manage that material. This material is sufficiently reviewed and thanks to the content that can be found in it. On the other hand, at the beginning of the report, there was a review of the previous report and some indications of what the bodies of the Assembly were and what the Parliament said as a whole in the previous report, as asked of the government, as promised. So that the end of the report would be told and what was made of it. It's an interesting situation in the county. Something indicative, I think. The largest number of complaints is in the counties that cover the area of special state concern. These areas are economically devastated, populationally, well-devashed, in war run over and devastated. It's part of the country where people usually live the worst by all the criteria. One of them said he was a colleague of the Gaits. It is obvious that on this very territory of the Republic of Croatia, the state should be most firmly placed and helped by its citizens. In those parts of the country that were not so affected by the war as those northwestern counties, citizens, they can say freely, despite the poor government, locally organised in the counties, in cities, in municipalities and there the system at least at local level, and that is what people do most, it works. It's impossible here, this country needs the most help and these figures don't talk about the state doing its job in a satisfactory way. The address is less than in the previous year, addressing the occupier. This can be seen from the table on page 11. However, in two or three areas of address there is still more. One of them is construction. I guess it's because of the more principled and harsh treatment of state authorities, we all have a chance to see cases. And these days, and there have been in the last year. The biggest increase is in the area of complaints of persons deprived of liberty. Why? Because the occupier found enough resources to go to Croatian prisons and find that the situation in them is actually much, much worse than American films. That these people are not only deprived of freedom but also deprived of the elemental rights of hygiene, communication, normal treatment, and even decent food. I'd like to look back on behalf of the HNS Club on some of the topics that he's working on in his report, Mr. Attorney General. The first and most important subject seems to me, and that's the one we've been very much talking about in this House for the past few months, is the question of the courts. On the one hand, the longevity of the process which in practice implements the principle that late justice is actually an injustice regardless of what it says and sounds like. And the fact that the entire state has not found enough power to, within a reasonable time, and that reasonable time limit has long passed, improves the situation in the judiciary so that man can expect protection of his rights through a judicial system within a time period that can mean something to him. The case that ends in 15 years is completely up to you after the 15 years she's done. You've lost both money and 15 years of life and nerve and everything. One of the most significant causes, if not the most significant, and this is where the Croatian People's Party fully agrees with the position of the gentleman of the Ombudsman is also changes, human rights, personal changes that occurred in the judiciary in 1993. These were moves that were done quickly, but the consequences of this take a long time. It will take more and it will be very difficult to remove them, applying the democratic methods of functioning of society and relations to the judicial authority that we have today. It would be reasonable to simply do the same thing that was done in 93, but there things would just cancel out. Nothing high-quality new would have happened. One of the significant groups of complaints coming to the Ombudsman are complaints about new pensions, i.e. amendments to the Peace Law and the application of these changes in practice in which people who retired and per system by 99, after the 99th system and under that other system get a mostly 20, 30, 40% lower pension. I don't know how many sides that, what else do you call it, but cry out to people who were left behind that after 40 years, 40 years, there are MPs here who are younger than 40 years old. After 40 years of work, they get a thousand, a thousand 100, a thousand 200 kuna pensions with which they simply can't eat, let alone do something else. How many sides should this cry out to the government, the government, the legislator, we decide to do something here. One of these parties is Mr. Police Attorney. The objections to the functioning of the health system, i.e. the complaint to the Ombudsman, were also abundant. Most of the examples mentioned here do not concern the payment of transport, that mileage, or the non-payment of transport after, beneath a certain mileage which is proposed to change, I hope that this pact of law will soon come to a decision and that we will remove this species and that injustice from our system, that it will not happen that a sick child cannot travel for 55 kilometers because there is no one to pay for the transport. A significant number of complaints also refer to housing issues, so housing care and the purchase of apartments where last year, and even in previous years, are actually happening things that are hard to imagine. It's about the crucial need, the existential need of every citizen, and things happen, for example, one I know that local self-government sold to the citizens of the apartment in the house that was configured. People were aware that this house was configured and that they didn't actually have the right to ransom and didn't even ask for a ransom there in the '90s, '91. when that ransom was made. However, '93. In the year local self-government, the city offered them these apartments for ransom, and people accepted, bought the apartments mostly in cash, invested a certain amount of money in these apartments, installed central heating, and so on in '98. Or '99. The former owner came and told the people it was mine, asked for a return and got a refund. And well he got his return, but the city that sold those apartments to people was being built, it was some sort of housing fund there, not today's housing. The company, and it's really none of our business. Not only did they not apologize to the people, that they didn't tell them how bad it was for you, that you invested inside, but they didn't pay back the money they paid that city. So the government, the state, the state, the local state sold them the thing. The owner sued the court, they, of course, lost, at their remarks to the court that bona fide bought those apartments not on the salary but from the city, the answer was that you were obliged to check if the one selling you the owner. So they did not buy from the traffickers, they bought from the city, and the city deceived them, and today not only does it not give them any compensation, but it does not give them their money back. In every normal state that city would nicely invite people and say sorry, here are the apartments we give you. I mean, keep quiet about it, it really doesn't make sense, we screwed up and we never will again. That's not the case with us. The remarks of persons deprived of liberty are described on page 95 of this Report and what we can read here is actually terrible. The bedrooms are dark, wet, suffocating, bed linen dirty, hygiene maintenance capabilities, physiological needs none, the penitentiary's been re-tracted, it looks like a synopsis for a bad movie. A few days ago, we had a hearing here about the Penal Code, and we all agreed that it was certainly necessary to increase the fines. The penalties have been increased, where will your men go? In prisons like this. That's terrible. In all, however, the content of the report well outlines the situation in which the Croatian society is located, and the government's relationship with the Ombudsman, despite all the nice words, is seen in the conclusions of this Report. Namely, if the financing of the Russian Ombudsman and his journey through Croatia depends on the Norwegian, Danish or Swedish government, and not on the budget of this country, then the question is whether the Government is going to keep the attorney general or will declare it an association financed by foreign governments? In any case, the Croatian People's Party is very supportive of this Report and is behind all the views that have been expressed inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66130	Thank you very much. It's the national minority club, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66131	Dear Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Reading the 2005 Report on the work of a public defender as if who knows which time we read the same text over and over again, not because there are no new data in it, not because the report is not good, but simply repeats the same problems, same warnings, the same violations of the constitutional and legal rights of citizens, which will likely result in the same conclusions of this House of Commons, and after that, we will put all the problems in a year's time ad act. What are these violations of human rights, and what are the causes of which each year, when accepting the Report of the Ombudsman, he personally points out and repeats. The first problem of long-term procedures in resolving administrative matters in areas such as pension, disability insurance, property and legal relations, reconstruction of construction and spatial planning. The General Administrative Procedure Act is not respected, an efficient system of monitoring and evaluation of administrative matters in administrative areas has not been introduced, and for the state administration as a whole, the vertical connection of the system from top to bottom is not ensured. The body of the state administration does not keep systematic records of the resolution of administrative matters, does not monitor efficiency, the data collection process is long-term, often unreliable. The number of abolished solutions or those that repeatedly return to re-solving indicates that there is no expert supervision. Disrespect of the legal deadlines or reasonable deadlines where the proceedings last for years, and that the heads of the administrative bodies have no responsibility either to the government or to the Croatian Parliament, but they no longer have any real responsibility to the citizens. Pointing to the system of pay and material position of staff in the administration is not a problem for citizens, but for executive authorities that must ensure professionality, quality, so if you want the motivation of employees in the state administration, all in order to achieve the rights and legal interests of the citizens in front of the administration. Out of the total cases received, almost 20% refers to the work of courts for which the Ombudsman declares to be incompetent. It is high time for us to examine ourselves once again in this House. If indeed changes in the legal framework, if within the system itself, by looking at the State Judicial Council, the Ministry of Justice, if the particularly defined salaries do not give satisfactory results in the Croatian judiciary and citizens are increasingly turning to the Constitutional Court because of the longevity of the proceedings, the Court of Justice in Strasbourg has clearly failed to achieve the purpose and that the status quo in the judiciary is not sustainable for Croatian citizens. It is high time for this Parliament to make an open diagnosis of whether the long-term and judicial and administrative procedures are the result of really bad laws or human rights and material problems, and thus, I quote the report, the result of the riots and devastations in the system of management and control, supervision both in the system of state and local administrations and in the framework of judicial and judicial administration. Monitoring, control and evaluation of the work of each individual official and judge is a fundamental assumption for the introduction of order into administrative and judicial resolution. The lack of control favours arbitration and all levels of corruption from excessive to biased resolution whether it is friendly services or favouring political or financial interests and lobbys. It's a finished quote. In this situation, the equality of citizens before the law has been seriously questioned, and we have been satisfied from year to year only with the conclusion that problems exist. The occupier finds there has been an increase in complaints over violations of the rights of prisoners, convicts and detainees. Probably due to the conduct of the Police Advocate under the 1997 Rules of Procedure of the Public Attorney, under which the Ombudsman must examine institutions that restrict freedom of movement once every two years. What is such a review and the result of which has increased the number of complaints of persons deprived of liberty detected? Most of the facilities are re-contracted, jeopardizing the rights of prisoners with regard to the necessary space, it is impossible to ensure a minimum stay in the fresh air for two hours because there is not enough walking space that would make it impossible for them to contact each other. If, however, there is room for walking due to the redecoration or lack of staff of the insurance department, i.e. The law enforcement officers remain untapped. Some prisons have not provided basic standards of accommodation where the prisoner doesn't even have a locker for personal matters. There's no talking about the separation of prisoners, convicts and detainees. And precisely the particular problem are detainees and the question arises how often you determine detention but also about the length of detention that is often not in line with the positive regulations. There is little use of semi-open or open penitentiary but therefore too often violations of rights. Indeed, the question arises whether Article 9 guarantees the right to serve properly with human dignity. Although the rules speak of prisoner rights to accommodation suitable for human dignity and health standards, the health and hygiene conditions of accommodation are very poor. Dark and wet rooms, often moldy without daylight with lots of moisture. Some bedrooms don't even have heating, windows don't even have glass in December. The cockroaches and mice became domestic animals in prison and the cockroaches became almost all the kitchens. A special problem is sanitary knots. The lack of personal hygiene and the lack of running water has been indicated in several places. Preparation of food with the presence of cockroaches, lack of room for food consumption because there are not even tables and chairs, so prisoners eat on the bed, maintain all the misery of the system but also the level of dedication of human dignity and represent sources of infection and it is a wonder that they are gone or may not know of them anymore. With human behavior, with respect for the dignity of a person, training for life on the loose is important, especially for minors, for which there are important departments of treatment with a sufficient number of social workers, educators and psychologists, even teachers, but we do not even have a legally prescribed minimum of such experts. Breeders in educational institutions are left to themselves and, instead of raising, developing his personality and personal responsibilities in these young people, let us most often awaken revolt and bitterness. If we add that there is a large part of them that must be treated for addiction, which requires a measure of psychotherapy treatment, it is doubtful how it is possible to do so without a constantly employed psychiatrist. Unsuitable healthcare with poor hygiene conditions and conditions of accommodation results in a large number of hepatitis C infected. Each prisoner has the right to work in accordance with his health skills, acquired knowledge and possibilities of prisons or penitentiary to maintain or acquire expertise due to physical and mental needs. Better and faster time goes by, and it's also a sense of usefulness. Today, this right is used little or better to say little ensures what is referred to as the will or failure of the director of those institutions. A small number of detainees are allowed to spend 22 hours locked in overcrowded rooms. The existence of canteens for the purchase of food products has been reduced to high earnings because of how to interpret triple the price of some canteens. Special story are prisoners who make up to 50% of the prison population although the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that everyone is innocent until a judicial verdict finds him guilty and that the detainees and suspects for a criminal offence have the right to be brought to justice within the shortest legal period of time and be either released or tried for years of often equal sentence. It's a long time to start the trial, end the trial, power, etc. But there are exceptions. I just want to mention a few penitentiaries, Lipovic, Požeg, Valtur where almost everyone works, and the fact is that it would be a good thing that the work and quality of the prison depend not on the director, not to be an exception but to be a rule. I was deliberately detained in prisons and in persons deprived of freedoms, purely in response to yesterday's law where we talked a lot about one law and asked for certain rights. Doesn't human dignity deserve at least that much? More and more citizens are addressing the Ombudsman as a result of violations or endangerment of labour and social rights, pointing to the state of social uncertainty of part of the population. Surely the most vulnerable are the unemployed, black employees but certainly the employees who work for months, do not receive salaries or work with employers who spend all day and pay as much as they want. There's not enough control by inspection and administrative services. If, however, a worker asks for the protection of his right to work, as we have all heard here today, and what we all repeat takes an inaccessible amount of time. The old story is about the inaccessible and unwarranted differences in heights of the same categories between old and new pensioners, which not only did the occupier specifically warn but indeed here in this House we have spoken several times, but I think there is no action and answer. And this is all warning that there are more and more of those at the border and below the poverty line, which certainly potentiates the sense of hopelessness. In the Club of National Minorities, we support a report by the Public Minority, and we want to strengthen this institution until it opens up the ability to control and monitor the work of judges by a mere defender, thus not provoking the guaranteed independence and independence of the judiciary, but affecting the reduction of the duration of the proceedings, reducing public dissatisfaction, restoring confidence in the administrative system, and I think that the initiative must come from this Parliament not to accept the "status quo" but to try to change some things. Here's what we're going to support, but it would really be good if the conclusions were carried out, that after a year the Committee didn't have to ask questions again why some of the conclusions made by this House, which we agreed wasn't good, that we needed a stronger institution of the attorney general, why don't we do it? Let's try to get to juvie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66132	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66133	A colleague incorrectly claimed that here every year we have the same objections, the same violations of human rights. This year we have something that we have never had before, and what did the colleague herself specifically say is very good, which is what is the position of prisoners and convicts in Croatian prisons? In 2003, as a country of international institutions, we received a special recognition of a human relationship in our prisons so that after two or two years of Croatian prisons, Croatian prisons would become hateful and infamous Croatian cadets. What is said not only in detail of this report, which the colleague specifically noted where the beaches of cockroaches, mice, infections, where the tuberculosiss go along with the healthy but also warns of "Amnesty International", just as the rights of minorities have dramatically deteriorated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66134	Thank you very much. At 11 and 11 minutes, a 10-minute report for discussion expires. And now it's HSP Club and Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66135	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Attorney General with his associates. Well, I'll say it briefly and clearly for starters. The Croatian Party Club is entitled to report on the work of the Ombudsman and it is in one hand the authority of the Croatian Parliament for 2005 points to a harsh reality in Croatia and shows and paints the failure of the rule of law, i.e. its poor functioning starts with the central state government through the central, state authorities, local and regional self-government bodies, the judiciary as well as the impotence and the institutions themselves of the Public Advocate and, in particular, calls upon the Croatian Assembly. The Ombudsman's institution is starting to look like a doctor who treats a patient who suffers from the most severe illnesses with Plivadon. Either the Ombudsman's institution turns towards us into a summer writer or witness to a time such as Pope Dukljanin's Yearbook, which determines what's going on and the results and shifts are gone. Be careful, this meeting of the Croatian Parliament is already considering for the third time an annual report by the Ombudsman and the situation is more or less the same, it suggests what we heard today in the report and in 1999, which, if we don't do something, will be written in a report for one, next year, and may also be written in a report in 5 years. If we don't do something systematic. And it shows this report and our impotence. It means our inability to look at the facts. That we don't speak in protocol because it's now current, so in the end, as we did last year, we're going to conclude that we're going to strengthen the institution of the attorney general. That we will consider having jurisdiction over complaints from Croatian citizens about non-compliance, not acting, but rather non-compliance with the judiciary, non-action by the state authorities, silence of the authorities, non-resolvement of administrative cases. While creating barriers not to solve administrative objects and all of these similar or the same situations contained in the current report. But we are still satisfied with the fact that the methods of action and the work of the attorney general, as the Ombudsman himself said in the report, are careful advice, warnings, recommendations, and demands to the government. It's just that we're still missing the institute of a desperate cry. It means that, with these great and strong measures, we introduce the institute of a desperate cry, and then we've made the same situation that we have now. Therefore, whether we will continue to tolerate this situation, and it is not a problem in the institution of a public defender, as in the people sitting here. It's just that we need to take this seriously. Are we going to start by looking at where, whether or not to introduce this binding order of the attorney general? It is a binding order, and what is also in the report that it should be introduced in certain cases precisely because it seems to us that Croatian citizens themselves are beginning to doubt the effectiveness and effectiveness of the work of the attorney general, so they probably don't even file any more complaints because normally, regardless of what the Ombudsman intervenes in these strong measures, such as the recommendation, such as warning or advice, they will order because of what we have been saying here in Croatia, in the assembly, give some answer to the Ombudsman, and then again, if they need to give a second answer, and the situation will remain the same. He won't get rid of anything. In fact, it's going to go to that variant that I'm a man giving up my request. Let's just say one example that points to that part, and it means a report by the attorney general that refers to the restoration and says so. The administration recorded 14787 unsolved second-degree cases of about 800 repeated complaints. And now it's said how many employees work and it's said to be significant from the competent ministry. These officials say they solve as many as 100 items a month. But be careful how things work and overtime. So, with this dedicated work, and we have 14 787 at best in ten years if there aren't any cases they'll solve it. So can we accept such reports from the competent authorities of the state administration and the ministries? Watch out, 14 787 items, and they work hard and say how many there are and they solve saying with the overtime of 100 items a month. So 14 years that there's not a single item, and if you don't give God who's going to be sick, what's he going to be? So this is the raw stuff, really. That's what Croatian citizens say. That's what we're trying to talk about here, but it's not declarative, it's appropriate. To say that we finally make a commitment to the government and us here to make a commitment. First, what is there to do? So a considerable number of measures. The first is to see how and how to strengthen the role of the attorney general because if he stays like this, he really has no purpose anymore. There is no point in yet taking that extra step to make the rule of law work, so that the authorities of the central government, local authorities and regional local self-government and regional self-government finally begin to work. Look, we talk here all the time, not us, but a lot of sayings need to be decentralisationd. So how do we decentralisation when the current system doesn't work? So it doesn't work the body system we saw from the body's own report the local and regional self-government are the ones who are ahead of us not to respond at all to the attorney general. And now what does that part mean to decentralisation? The same as centralizing when neither bodies nor central bodies work, nor other public administration bodies. Therefore, it is true and such problems are encountered every day by Croatian citizens and it would be good to read again each of us Kafkin "Process" and unfortunately it is no longer in the book. It is really happening from day to day in Croatia. And now, let's say, it's a significant warning from the Ombudsman, which I've talked about many times on behalf of the Croatian Party Club and individually, and it's about the part where we here in the Croatian Parliament, so when the government prepares and regulations don't do what we should do, they don't create a simulation. So they do not make an assessment of how and how this law will apply in practice. We see how it will be applied that the central authorities do not apply it or apply it in a form appropriate to them. Furthermore, we see that, by the central authorities of the state administration, legal provisions are systematically violated in all procedures concerning resolution, rights and obligations of Croatian citizens. Not to mention the other part which is very interesting and which is also indicated in the report, which is that competent, means that both the Government and the competent ministries and other bodies that are in charge do not bring them under legal regulations, or they do not bring them at all or bring them into the deadlines that we as a legislator have set, which means only additionally creates an additional part of the legal uncertainty of Croatian citizens. And now we come to that part of the non-implementation of court decisions. In particular, it was also about the decision, i.e. the ruling of the Administrative Court of Croatia. We have also heard from the competent committees of parliament who find that every other administrative solution, the Administrative Court of Croatia cancels. And we're satisfied with the state of affairs in that ministry when they report on the state of security, and we've seen that every other solution falls in the Administrative Court. Will once the government finally take measures for the ministries and central authorities to start acting on the judgments of the courts. In this case, it means by the judgments of the Court of Justice. I mean that's what's happening, you have cases described here two or three times the Administrative Court's ruling. The same ministry has done it two or three times in its own way. So, he does not implement, he does not act on that verdict and means he is going precisely to that variant that the Croatian citizen gives up his request, as the situation has been related to what the public defender of influences related to non-resolvement, not resolving but not resolving working legal disputes and others. I've got a lot of cases where these procedures last ten years. Because that's the same variant the first degree solves, the second degree or the appeal cancels, and then the first one solves again, the second one cancels, and it goes on forever. And apparently, the kind of inspection that's legally set up at the Ministry of Justice will be the same as it was before the Minister's Office, that's what's going to go on the ground. Give some warning, recommendation, or advice, and it will all come back to pass. Therefore, I will not speak, I will speak individually of individual cases related to the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders and of all these administrative areas so that I will end this. But I say with an important message to ours, if we want to have an institution of the attorney general who will help Croatian citizens, we must give it a legal framework so that it can achieve that help. We need to determine exactly when and in what cases, when the Advocate General finds that there is room for a mandatory order to be issued when and how it will be done. Because what we have now and what, if we don't do anything on the basis of this report will happen again, the same problems will be related to the work of the attorney general himself, which I personally don't care about the work of the attorney general, but I worry that the problems of Croatian citizens are not being solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66136	Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS, NDS Mr. Representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66137	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Police Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. A report by the Public Prosecutor for 2005 points to the problem of disrespecting this institution, the constitutional institution by both the High House and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's regrettable. In this report, the Ombudsman called for the conclusions of this Assembly from one year ago, more precisely on 3 June 2005, which had been obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide the necessary resources for the staff, material and spatial strengthening of the office. On the eve of today's session, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system rejected a proposal that would oblige the government to submit reports on the execution of the Croatian Parliament's conclusions from last year. Such a decision by the Constitutional Committee confirms that the Ombudsman is not even respected by the body he founded and who he is responsible for, which is this Croatian Parliament. Contrary to the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, the government of the Republic of Croatia did not provide the necessary financial and material resources when adopting the 2004 Ombudsman's report, making it more difficult to work more efficiently as a lawyer for the protection of human rights of citizens and citizens. This is the opposite of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, but also the indication of lack of interest in the work of the Office of the Ombudsman who is also the institution of the Croatian Parliament. The attorney general rightly criticises the non-transparentity of budgeting for his office. In fact, in the entire budget process, the Ombudsman was not given the opportunity to participate in the draft. While the home committee has received the draft budget for the Office at a time when it was no longer possible to intervene with the amendments, so the budget of the Ombudsman was passed by the body of the administration, the Ministry of Finance whose work oversees on behalf of the Croatian Parliament is just the Office of the Public Prosecutor. I therefore consider it important to warn this House that this way the functioning of the surveillance system and the balance necessary for each democratic system is at stake. Only the 2005 Ombudsman's report, regardless of insufficient financial, staff and spatial support, with the presentation of a figure of 2 thousand 433 cases of citizens who were involved in the course of last year, indicates the great involvement and involvement of the Office of the Public Ombudsman with the daily protection of the constitutional human rights of citizens and citizens of Croatia, which is also evident from the description of activities carried out on the ground. This brings the Ombudsman's institution closer to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which, by the way, provided by a foreign donor. This is... whose programme completed its work in 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The context of the way the 2005 Office's budget was adopted, I question whether poor and weak mobile citizens across Croatia will continue to have that possibility or in the future to take on necessary activities that meet the needs of citizens to help some other international donor will be invited. Speaking of the work of the administrative and judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia, I certainly support the evaluations and proposals presented in the Ombudsman's report. And once again, I draw attention to the democratic responsibility of ministers and other management heads to citizens whose rights and interests they decide. I would like to join the request of the Advocate General for the abolition of the practice of clientelistic and/or political appointment of civil servants, as well as formal and informal pressures on judges, which greatly precludes the exercise of the rights of citizens, both human and constitutional and legal. I certainly support the lawyer's proposal, according to which Croatia would, in the example of many European countries, introduce some kind of parliamentary oversight of the justice system through the institution of the occupier, which I quote: "The basic task is to treat the complaints of citizens and which can represent the necessary bond between the judicial authority of the Croatian Parliament.", the conclusion of the quote, as rightly pointed out by the Attorney General. Finally, I draw attention to the esteemed colleagues and colleagues of the representatives of the observed discriminatory provisions of the Rules of Procedure in detention prisons listed in this report. This Regulation, as well as the recently adopted Regulation on measures and how to determine the specific mental and physical capacity of police officers, states that our sublegislative acts hide a series of discriminatory provisions against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I propose to this House that, when adopting the 2005 Ombudsman's report, we support the conclusion that the Public Prosecutor's Office should also provide additional resources to systematically assess all sublegal acts brought by public authorities and abolish those provisions that directly violate human, constitutional or civil rights of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I am taking the opportunity to commend the timely public statement of the vacancy attorney, related to the discriminatory rule on police officers, which drew the public's attention to this extremely problematic and democratic controls inaccessible practice. What should be taken into account by the Croatian Parliament and its representatives and MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66138	Thank you very much. It's the IDS club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66139	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Mr. Attorney General, the esteemed Mr. Attorney General. When you get one of these reports on no less than 160 pages, you don't know where to go, back or front. So, due to the content of this time, I chose the end of the report, which states what all the Ombudsmans concerned from the rights of Croatian defenders to the problem of citizenship, from the problems of persons working in the Republic of Croatia, to the return of property, from complaints about the issue of building permits to the problems of persons deprived of freedom, bankruptcy, complaints about the work of courts, the problems of Serb returnees to social security, etc. So this is a review of a Croatian lifestyle which is very different from what the government shows, but those who have everything hard to understand are those who have nothing. Those who have all the poor are always heavy. To be clear, the public defender as I am experiencing him is a shoulder to cry on. The one who has something will not seek the help of the attorney general but will clearly try to defend or choose differently for his under quotes of rights. He'll try to hire a lawyer, maybe pay someone off, that's what happens in this country, but the occupier who's not going to look for it, and they can only hire him, means only the poor who God raised his hands or some idealist who doesn't know how the Republic of Croatia breathes and who still naively believes that the legal state is sitting here. But before I look back at the parts of this report on the rule of law, let me touch a phenomenon. In Croatia, gentlemen, there is a phenomenon today of closing factories from super-rich factories that have all acquired through conversion and privatisation, e.g. "TDR" in Zagreb and now "Podravka" in Umag whose state is co-owner in 26% and precisely from Mr. Marinc to Deputy Prime Minister has 10%, from this factory draws machines and indirectly participates in the shut-down and factory which is situated clearly in the super-attractive position in Umag. It's clear that the factory should be relocated but in an industrial zone three kilometers north to save it, but this leads to the shut-down of the factory. Today I have just sent a letter to the Prime Minister, why it supports it, and I know that local self-government will change the spatial plans and prevent the reuse of that space. I also know that this campaign around this factory in Umag is an attack on IDS. It wasn't an accident that the local HDZ set off two days ago, because that's how they protect a state that is 26% co-owner, etc. and the administration 10%, however, is transparent. I even heard about it 20, 30 days ago, so the state that has the control package should return the machines, guarantee jobs, build a new factory. The following report shall include these elements. Second, to get back to the rule of law. The attorney general refers mainly to the longevity of court proceedings but is being taken elsewhere. In quote, Mr. Malcic, who paraphrased the professor or quoted the Taker as saying on page 152, follow me: "The quality of the judicial officials has been violated by a series of political appointments of incompetent morally questionable or inexperienced judges as well as the political resolution of all capable, experienced and determined". Furthermore, I quote everything on page 152, 153: "The political authors of power in the judiciary have created an insurance fort for both their political positions and their acquired privileges". So I quote "corporate structures that escape democratic responsibility" on page 153. It is further said, in a situation where there is no autonomous etc. The courts,... will represent a new obstacle, etc., I don't need a bang. That's a very brave grade. I can say only bravo though she may be too mild for understandable reasons. She should be completed in some way by my court. There was Mr. Grubic's spokesman for "TDR" who recently told me, insulted me all in 16 when I stepped into the defence of TDR workers looking for a compromise, told me what to expect in a man who doubted the credibility of our rule of law, which I replied that I believe more that their cigarettes do not harm health than I believe in the Croatian judiciary which the note was mainly part of the commercial courts under direct control of capital, so I would say some parastructures in this country. It sounds amazing, absurd, but gentlemen, that's the way it is. The question is whether or not we're going to talk about it, whether or not we're going to mention the interest law on interest until 2004, which, fortunately for these governments, has been abolished. Are we going to mention that the High Commercial Court in Zagreb is for 11 thousand kuna from some 94/95. 10 million kuna was awarded, for 430 thousand kuna in the case of Privredna Banka, 15 million euros, for a thousand and 200 kuna stakes in Zagrebačka banka 400 million kuna. Due to the false indexation of several hundred or thousands of kuna, dispute the investment of 500 million kuna, etc. What's he saying? That this country, or, and with it, is clearly all of us, in terrible troubles and thanks to Mr. Malcic, who in some ways represents it. Furthermore, Mr. Malcic, the former vice-president of the Constitutional Court, a member of the Constitutional Court, certainly said that, I think he was also the vice president with whom I was battled in the mid-90s over the principles and provisions of the Statute of the Istrian County. I quote, the first page of 153 "in the judiciary there are inexperienced, incompetent, but morally questionable judges. And secondly, the independence and impartiality of the works of these judges is questionable because they are not chosen by the criteria of independence but similarity or even linked to political, financial or other interest groups", a finished quote. Mr Malcic continues to say, the strategy puts emphasis on the independence of the structure of the legislative executive, and it bothers me when you say legislative authorities because I don't know what we're really deciding about, but this second part of the sentence is great. Great. I quote "do not mind the dependence of judges on" quote: "unformal influential interest groups and lobbys both political and financial and those at the edge of the law or outside it", a finished quote. With a rough bill or outside of it. That's the gentlemen's point. It is the cancer of Croatian society itself. The judiciary, part of the judiciary, took over the financial groups not to say capital, but also those groups at the edge of the law or outside of it not to tell the mob, literally so. Some judges may be offended or not, but this is true. In the 1990s, politics influenced them, but today in 2006 if it has any policy influence, then that influence is second-rate, and it is certainly a good exception if it is appointed, but capital has a growing influence and this underground is also growing and it is a disaster that you sometimes judge those as Mr. Malcic says, who are off the edge of the law or outside of it, and not the state. We give our full support to a public defender who says on page 154 again: "Some forms of external control through the ministry means that courts should be performed, but also by a public defender because it could only help," a finished quote. Is this a court-independence thing now? I'm saying it's not. It's a struggle for an independent judiciary. It is clear that those outside the law, or as they say here "from the edge of the law", whether the converted capital, want to master the judiciary. Especially in a commercial court because that's how they protect their business acquisitions. And so I say, I say I believe more in the thesis that smoking does not harm health than the work of Croatian judges. Finally, on every pack of cigarettes, if nothing else, at least it says that smoking harms our health, and judges judge us in the name of the people. Clearly, all by law with poor people really judging by the law, but capital as he tells them. I wish I was wrong. I wish I was wrong. Clearly, this can't apply to everything in general. And if so, don't let God live in this country, but these quotes by the public defender, former Constitutional Court judge, former Croatian government minister, perhaps even plebictarianally elected, perhaps we from the IDS did not support him because of the statutes of the County of Istria, speak and refer to the most serious Croatian problem. And that is trust, then, in the Croatian judiciary. Voted in my own time or not for Mr. Malcic, I support these qualifications 100%. I'm standing 100% on his side, but I doubt God knows what's gonna work. I could talk further about these returnees of the Ministry... The renovation, 9 grand 510 houses and apartments, 5 grand 207 paid cash support for minor damages, which I 100% welcome even though I don't think it was supposed to be there in '95 when it started. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I could talk about legal certainty, side 156, or social security that again in this country, gentlemen, won't be until we have a gross social product of 7,000 euros per capital and 300 thousand unemployed. And where, as I said yesterday, cities for an unsettled dog on a day stand out 58 kuna times 31 day, that's a thousand 791 kuna, and the average pension in this country is a thousand 850 kuna. So yesterday I said that it is better in Croatia sometimes to be a carefree dog than a pensioner. But I'll say a word about the construction permit, page 75, where the emphasis is placed on a reasonable deadline. I'll just say that the state of Croatia has no right to delay the proceedings because this is how we lose money and that should make our administration aware. She lives off those people who pay dearly for that paper. We live out of them, and we, MPs, ministers, judges, vehicular attorneys, which I know all who don't. And that's why these procedures need to be accelerated. It doesn't make sense that one piece of paper is waiting for 12, 24 or 36 months. The answer must arrive within that reasonable time limit, and it must be 30 days, maximum 60 days. If not, let the job, I don't know, do the notebooks, and you'll see how you'll be able to make a decision about getting off your salary overnight. Removing buildings, the state sees what it's doing on Vira. It seems to only go towards Hungarians, IDSs, Slovenians, Royce, someone else, but the law should be the same for everyone, and I won't stop. I welcome on page 79 that the issue of auxiliary facilities outside larger settlements can be arranged without a building permit. It says Mr. Malcic. Bravo! And let it stop collapsing where the object can be legalized. Let it stop in Istria to tear down septic pits or cherries. You can't do that. It's a shame. It's a shame. You know who I mean, the Jakovčić whose septic pit was knocked down because he didn't have a building permit for a septic pit and a kennel. For the basement, that's another thing. He made it without permission and let it be. Return of property, page 59, going but slow. As well as where it comes from the return of property seized for South-Communist rule. Where we see that, as a rule, the state's attorney's office submits complaints to positive solutions, which will only be when Croatia's entry into the European Union is conditioned by the return of property. Then, protected tenants who are unable to resolve their status. Although some live in those apartments for 50 or 60 years or more. Then, the persons deprived of liberty, where the reacquaintment is stated, of which the colleague spoke, of as much as 170% or more of the inadequate places, is more of such inadequate places in the brakes. But I would still put an emphasis on this permeability of the penitentiary when it comes to drugs where you can get to drugs, needles and everything else, heroin, like on the street. Yeah, it's a little more expensive. It's supposed to buy some people off, but God knows, he does. It's not like there's anything wrong with it. About looking for workers, about cases of bankruptcy I know everything about. This phenomenon of closing down factories will still be heard this year because it's just coming up, but I agree with everyone, there's a big job ahead of us. I would especially like to thank Mr Klaric, who inaugurated the institution as highly moral and courageous, but because of the assessment of the Croatian judiciary, I would like to highlight this annual report by Mr Malcic in particular. I agree, today is the primary interest not in the '90s, for example. Buying apartments, I don't know, JNA, returning refugees, destroying partisan monuments, etc., etc. Today's primary interest is business, return, housing, judiciary, welfare, and in 95 or 6 it was naked for naked survival. So it's getting better. There is almost no emphasis on media freedoms at all, and all in all Croatia is becoming a more orderly country. There's a lot more to be done, but we still have to be honest about it going for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66140	From this presentation, it is concluded that TV transmission is in progress and that they are here in this presentation, I must say, very little in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the topic discussed, except for some general phrases. But this debate was filled with reports of the move of "Podravka" to Umag, the standard of animals compared to pensioners, septic caves, Virs, demolitions and the like. Mr. Cain, you are conducting your discussions within the agenda and the points we are discussing, and not as you regularly do, in order to please one of the terrestrial ways of one of the viewers. Don't abuse this Assembly pay phone. You speak within your agenda, and you've spoken 90% of it beyond that agenda. That's what I have to say. So, not only to Mr Cain but to all those who are too far away from the topic that is on the agenda today, because the Rules of Procedure correctly states that it should be noted if it goes beyond the agenda, and you. And I don't see that the destruction of septic caves is within this point of the agenda and things like that. We have a few corrections to the wrong assumption. We have Mr Fran Matusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, of course, with everything you've already tried to correct in front of the public, said one incorrect allegation, which is that in this report we have data that is different from what the government is showing. So that's completely incorrect. The government doesn't even show the work of an attorney general. The occupier has his powers, his responsibilities, and the government has a completely different part of the work, so it is completely incorrect that there are different government data concerning the work of the state's attorney general. Therefore, it is a completely incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66142	Second correction, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66143	Well, colleague Cain said the courts were taken over by the mob, financial capital, I guess that's what they said, right? I think it's simply an incorrect allegation, and not only that, but I think it's an insult actually for most of the judges who actually do their job very correctly and very committed, and this is one pure transfer of responsibility to the judiciary. You know, colleague Cain, the courts judge by law, and the laws we bring here in this Croatian Parliament, and you sit in it seems to me since the '90s. I think it is neither true nor correct, and if you know someone who has been taken over by the mafia or this financial capital write a criminal application and I will subscribe it to you, because without it, this exposure actually has absolutely no value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66144	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66145	I picked up the plate,... 209th, 214th and earlier when you were correcting me, Mr. Vice President, arguing and saying that I was totally sticking to the agenda. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] I was talking about construction, side of 84's work complaint.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66146	It's an article on which.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66147	Persons deprived of liberty.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66148	Article of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66149	And now I'm going to tell Mr. Bosnjakovic I didn't drop anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66150	Rule of Procedure, or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66151	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Now, I'm going to tell Mr. Bosnjakovic that I didn't write this report, but that I was just quoting both political and financial often connected, including those at the edge of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66152	Do not answer Bošnjakovic because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66153	That's what it says in this Rules of Procedure, page 153.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66154	Please sit down, you're not. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66155	Five, six quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66156	Come on, sit down. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66157	Well, when he was right, he said one inaccuracies, so on this occasion. So there's drugs in prison, something more expensive. That's right. But then on, my colleague Caine, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, but he's incorrectly hard-core, so in prisons there's everything, it's not that there's anything missing, I guess, thinking about drugs. It's not true he has everything. Everything's missing and everything's missing except drugs. It's from the report visible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66158	Please, let's move on. It is next to the HSS Club and Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66159	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Police Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. It looks like it's gonna be hard to talk about the report especially after these corrections, so on. wrong or wrong allegations, but I will really stick only to what the report says and nothing else. And here's another report from the attorney general. In the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, we are of the opinion that these reports require special seriousness, they need to be seriously approached and analysed because we are in fact analysing the work of our own authority, which we have authorised to protect on our behalf the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the process before the state administration and bodies that have public authority. So we didn't empower him. This and this constitutional formulation of the role of the Ombudsman has led the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to conclude that the Ombudsman is a body which decides on their rights and infringements of those rights. In this concept, we also find the reason for a large number of complaints in the area that are not within the jurisdiction of the occupier. In this concept, we also find the reason for the disappointment of citizens who have seen the Ombudsman definitely solve their problems, and these solutions have often not occurred. Of course, these citizens are completely and permanently disappointed and have lost faith in the work of state administration and bodies with public authority. Courts, in one word citizens do not believe in the functioning of the rule of law. We also feel it is necessary to point out this occasion that the role of the Ombudsman is not finally to solve the problem of citizens, the Ombudsman is, on the basis of complaints, to see which areas of administrative action are the most common threat and violation of human rights. They will inform this Assembly of their knowledge and, in accordance with constitutional and legal powers, will propose possible solutions to improve the situation, and we are the ones who will accept the proposed and find new solutions, and in order to protect human rights, and therefore it is not enough just to accept the report because they are all saying that human rights are being violated in Croatia and that they are being violated or threatened by administrative bodies and bodies with public powers. Such solutions would have to be contained in the conclusions, but no one implements the Assembly's conclusions after the 2004 Report this House has reached conclusions, but they have not been implemented, as the Ombudsman himself states in his Report. This is how we view the role of the Ombudsman’s staff as his account ahead of us. It shows that citizens' rights continue to be compromised, they continue to be violated and the most numerous charges are related to pension insurance, as many as 436. The complaint concerns the length of the procedure, in particular the second-degree. The lawyer says, quotes: "Despite the request of the civil defender of HZMO, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office does not explain the reasons for the so-called cases. "The silences of the administration." We find incorrect treatment of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office when instead of adopting an administrative act, it informs the party of their request to the applicant by letter. In particular, it is important to warn the Croatian Institute that protection is extended to cases where a solution is taken according to official duty if it is in the interest of the party. It's a finished quote. As far as citizens of a serious age are concerned, it is unacceptable for them to be the victims of an endless and unsuspecting delay in the administrative procedure both in the first instance and in the second-degree body. The examples set out in the report show that the procedure takes several years. Unlike the complainants who complained about the work of the court, the complainants on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute have largely exercised their right to intervene, but we have to ask ourselves why these proceedings take a long time, why the intervention of the Ombudsman's staff is needed when the deadlines are laid down by law and the institution is obliged to abide by them. His intervention solves only a small way for citizens because the majority of them have not reached their complaint by reaching out to the attorney general. It is the obligation of the state to enable every citizen to exercise his right within the time limit that the law lays down in the same way as all citizens are equal before the law. In Croatia, however, it does not seem that way, and so does the lawyer in the report. And I quote it. "In recent complaints, infringements in the handling of the competent authorities for which the Ombudsman communicated with the competent authorities in earlier identical cases have been reported, pointed to irregularities most frequently in the application of the material rules and after that these cases were resolved in a legitimate manner. The more recent complaints raises doubts that at the same time the parties were treated differently by the attorney general and those parties for whom the Ombudsman had no knowledge." Such practices do not give citizens confidence in the rule of law. Last year's report also highlighted the problem of the long-term process in first-degree settlement of administrative matters, in particular in the areas of pension and disability insurance, property and legal relations, reconstruction, construction and spatial planning, and the second-degree procedure in the mentioned but almost all other administrative resolution powers. At that time, certain proposals and recommendations were made with a view to improving the situation, but everything is in vain because even in 2005 the situation did not change significantly. If it is to trust the Ombudsman and we need to trust him because he is our authority, then all the proposals and recommendations from last year's report can be implemented in order to improve the situation relatively quickly and independently of other necessary changes and reforms in the administration. It is obvious that there is no political will in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. An efficient system of monitoring and evaluation of solutions in administrative matters, administrative powers and state administration as a whole has not yet been introduced. Administrative bodies, departments and departments are not professionally strengthened or provided professional assistance. Apparently, the Central Office of the State Administration is engaged and exhausts the finding of legal bases for the destruction of legally elected authorities in local and regional self-government units and the state administration is his last hole in the play. It doesn't take much. The lawyer says, I quote, "It is also necessary to break in practice the vicious circle of political similar and personal loyalty after any change in the election or change of the minister or other head of the governing body except by law a strictly limited number of duties and positions. Professionality and continuity, not political resemblance and personal loyalty, must be the only criteria for doing all the jobs in which the law applies and decides on the rights and interests of citizens." Those are the words of the attorney general. By accepting this report, we accept the views and recommendations that it contains. Then these are our attitudes, then these are our recommendations, or demands. Then our view will also be that the practice of large and unwarranted shifts so far after any change of power which unfortunately has not been prevented by the constitutional and judicial practice. It has also weakened in some cases devastated professionalism, continuity and continuity, which has an impact on the legal security of citizens. By adopting the report, it will be our words and not the words of a lawyer alone. As long as we are only formally adopting reports, each of the following will contain the following, quote, "The fact that in many administrative areas legal deadlines are not respected and within some reasonable time-limits, for months and even years, citizens are not often informed of the reasons for this, nor of the deadlines within which they can expect a solution says that ministers and other leaders of administrative bodies whose resolutions do not respect enough citizens and do not do their job well because, apart from formal responsibility, there is also real responsibility for citizens whose rights and interests they decide." And what we as MPs will do and the people will do when these words are repeated in the next report. If it were real and not formal responsibilities to this Parliament, there would be ministerial feathers everywhere, and then we would be protecting our citizens and their rights, and only then would we be theirs. People's representatives. This report contains heavy accusations but also concrete proposals to improve the situation. Furthermore, the attorney general and he continue to hear complaints about the work of the courts. Although this does not fall under his jurisdiction in the face of this problem, this House cannot and must not close its eyes. The length of court proceedings is not only a problem for the Croatian judiciary. This is a problem for Croatian citizens who cannot even exercise their rights through court. The problem of non-functioning is highlighted in each report by the Advocate General and the former Ombudsman has argued, a questionable professional level of some court decisions taken in the first degree is present. Lawyers, like anyone else who dares to point out the problem of ineffectiveness of the judiciary, have been accused of interfering with the independence of the judicial authority. None of us want to suggest to judges what decisions they will make but we have the right to demand that they be timely and legal. The current attorney goes further and says that the underlying problems, I quote: "a) There are also in the judiciary inexperience, inability but also morally questionable judges." And under "b) The independence and impartiality of active judges is questionable because they are neither chosen by the criteria of independence and expertise but by the likeness or even the connection with political, financial or other interest groups." We believe that most of them are professional, professional and independent, but their work and responsibility are being thrown out by those who are not. They are simply in the system and it is necessary to exclude them from the system for the benefit of citizens but also that part of professional, moral and independent judges. Under existing law, only the State Judicial Council which is responsible for the appointment and resolution may exclude them from the system. From a theoretical point of view, there is a way to resolve unprofessional, irresponsible and immoral but practice is different. Let's just remember the immunity scandals. Obviously, the state of justice within the system is not considered critical enough. It is difficult to conclude from the work and actions of the State Judicial Council that this body is realistically assessing the situation and taking measures accordingly. We agree with the Advocate General that the time has come for finding a solution for systematic supervision and evaluation of the work of judges to be removed from the system of those who, by the scope of the work, do not meet the necessary standards of good trial and that the supervision and control would be outside the justice system. The reason for such solutions is also found in the fact that so far has not been done enough and has not produced satisfactory results. Unfortunately, the justice reform strategy also puts emphasis on and sets goals, noting only the need for greater independence of the judiciary than the formal structures of the legislative and executive authorities and less on the internal dimension of the independence of each judge than others, especially the informal influences of stakeholders and lobbys, both political and financial, as well as on those at the edge of the law as already said. Finally, at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, we accept a report by the Ombudsman for 2005 or his, and we support his proposals and recommendations to improve the situation as binding for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is obliged to ensure the functioning of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66160	Thank you. The HSLS Club is a respected representative of Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66161	... Mr. President, sir-in-law, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]] Here's who knows which times I feel like I'm involved in something that's already been seen in this House many times. There's a ritual, and it's that the attorney general has an obligation to file an annual report. He does it. We often find that he did it correctly. That, that his report corresponds to the genre of the report, that it is exhausting, that it is thorough, that it has content. I say more or less all clubs support it. There are hardly any specific polemic tones between individual clubs or individual representatives. Here and there I say some spark of the plan, if any thing, let the thesis sharpen to the end, but more or less all of it I say fits something that has been seen here many times. And again, as I said last year somewhere in June in this report for 2004 I said that with the same scenario we're going to watch that movie next year. Now that's exactly what's happening right now, and unfortunately, I was quite right. And it really has to be frustrating. Because if we commend the report of the occupier and say that the occupier is doing his job well, then the logic of common sense tells us that someone is not doing a good job. Or that this, or content, amount of jobs faced by this public defender during the past year shows that the whole series of institutions in the Republic of Croatia does not work the way it should work. But here's ten years, ten or eleven years we've been facing in Parliament with reports from the Ombudsman I say nothing more dramatic happens. However, let's be honest with him that our first public defender had this kind of self-regioned approach to reality, so he usually told people who came to him that only a dear God could help them. So then you just... The reason why the vehicular attorney then had to step down was because the public couldn't accept the fact that the state was powerless and that, in fact, it's the ones that are who they are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under the heading, weak subjects who really have nothing but to turn to the occupier cannot be left to the will of the dear God, but still there must be a whole series of these institutions that are obliged to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm saying then we had a colleague, Klaric, who, in some ways, used us to be that these reports were just like this, the methodology I see was taken over by a colleague of Malcic's, and I'm really saying... The story repeats itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But right now, here, obviously, we as Parliamentarians, too, would really have to do something about this already seen ritual not repeating itself year after year and just being a guarantee. We're the ones who still... a legislative body that adopts certain laws, so some institutions operate under these laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we should respect the letter and the spirit of what we are doing here. But obviously, this is not happening, and what has happened many times already and very often really been said behind this speaker, we feel like there really is a double state in our country, that there is something besides the law that is behind or outside the world. And then actually people are facing it, with this one interpretation that certainly puts their rights at risk. And I'm afraid I'm saying that there's obviously no peace with which all this is said and for a dozen or more times it's going to happen again and unfortunately in 2007, and that we're not going to be any wiser. Although we do have the task of protecting the rights of our citizens right now and of limiting the power of the individual and, indeed, that some society is civil, democratic and... rights if it is possible to suspend the power of an individual who allows himself to interpret and take the right as much as he needs, or to apply it in one false way to those people who seek help from that institution or from that person who personalises that institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I say inadmissible. That's exactly the difference between saying democratic than those non-democratic, totalitarian, autocratic, arbitral societies, and apparently we are, regardless of these certain improvements that some colleagues have talked about, we're still actually dealing with something called transition. This report is always an x-ray of our society. And indeed, in the 1990s, there was one problem of disrespect, mostly about status rights, citizenship, and later came the apartments, and now in this third millennium in some way we are faced with problems relating to social, pension, health problems that people can't solve, so either they solve through the system of institutions, but they have to face the Office of the Attorney General. But what is evident in some way as this report appeared on the websites, so through several interviews, public appearances in the media by the attorney general, it is obviously a topic of relations between the public defender, the office as an institution and the judiciary. So if, if we interpret our constitution then there's no jurisdiction over the courts, right, if I interpret it well. But I'm also reading this controversy that has been in some public statements by the attorney general with the representatives of the judicial association as a wish, as an initiative to extend the powers of the attorney general. And indeed, there is now a problem that this House will face today, whether such an extension of jurisdiction will occur, or, if so, if so, if the Parliament so wishes it had to come in itself and change our constitutional solutions. Otherwise, we will indeed have one situation, a very dangerous situation that has proved to be true today. This can be camouflaged in a way that it's the text of a professor, and then that text is quoted, and then this text, in a way, is specifically taken on page 152, 153 if I'm not mistaken, and then we're just getting to a very dangerous one, which is exactly what makes the situation in the judiciary tragic. You know, if that's generalized then actually, then who's he going to, who's that problem about everyone or anyone? Because if there's no concreteization exactly that our judiciary is such, incompetent, corrupt, that there really are people who are just at a border then such a thesis actually leads to an anarchical state and it's me as a man who... The worldview, a man who wants to trust his institutions, respect the Constitution and the law then can hardly accept it as much as it is a painful assessment, but without concreteisation, I'm afraid we're just going to stay on those flat-rate reviews. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then it'll be a story for the media for two, three days. We're gonna get here because I don't know if a few more awkward replicas will fall, but it won't change. Therefore, either there should be one clear initiative to change the jurisdiction of the Ombudsman, and then I need to know what it is, that then it is about the change and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Because as long as it's standing, then it's really just like one, as a matter of fact, one bit of a tragic situation that's being perceived, that something is being observed, but without actually wanting to change the situation. Well, that's exactly what I'm saying is one remark to the Attorney General. As much as the report is written very calmly, discreetly, i.e. meets all the rules of the genre, so much in these public appearances would have to be suspended in some way, and if it is not clearly an articulated desire to change the Constitution and that we are here as if it were our authority that we would then extend our powers but only if we can only expand if we change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Then it must be made clear and loud. Then we must face that fact. Then it really has to become this topic that, or one right actually debate about it, and not this ritualization I say exactly which is going to go on to write, that what is written is to be accepted, that with some minor, minor observations, we are actually waiting for the same report that will come to us next year and that we have the same relationship to do so. So, then it should be done and politically and civilly correct and courageously and say yes, we are looking for a change of the Constitution because these guidelines, which the current civil defenders under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia possess are insufficient and are actually making it impossible for him to actually do his job the way he would have wanted it, as he sees it. Some other things that appear in this report that, in fact, it is in the budget, that the creation of a budget for the work of the office is not involved, that it is a discretionary assessment of the Ministry of Finance without agreement. We've been here a few times, too, saying it's inadmissible. That it's inadmissible that actually a good part of the financial resources is actually donated by I don't know Norway. Rather, if I'm not mistaken, it's either the Canadian government or that some other international institutions are involved. I don't know that the occupier's staff has been disabling or making this field work difficult. I mean, these are things that if we started an institution then and we boast that by actually participating in, or we have that institution, we can legitimateize ourselves as a civil, democratic country. But then I also think on the other hand that we also need to ensure all these optimal conditions that, indeed, the Office of the Public Attorney as a truly very important and correct, supervisory institution in this society can and can function. I'm saying that again, I'd have to go back to some of my earlier exposure. But I'm telling you what seems to me to be the most disturbing thing in our HSLS Club is that it is precisely this indeterminateness, that from this one, I say from this position of the man who has both the experience and the former minister, the former Constitutional Court judge, who is now a public defender who certainly well knows the situation in the Croatian judiciary who has the right to certainly have objections. But then I would ask him to really be and that this initiative should be obtained and determined not only through interviews or newspaper inscriptions, but to strengthen himself and then about then that we, as a people, excuse the MPs to say whether we will accept it or not. And I'm not saying again that we're going round and round and then we're going to say that I say it's very dangerously difficult for us to have the judiciary, that it's on the border. I'm saying something like that, I would never dare say because then really what kind of trust the institution of this state is if we suspect in advance that the rule of law doesn't work the way it would actually have to, or that there are some interventions, that there are certain centres of political power, some corporate elements that are certainly, by definition, anti-democratic. Then we do have an anarchic condition. And on the other hand, these same appeals with the state of the penitentiary, prisons, etc., it's the same thing that a stylish society doesn't agree with. And we need to do everything to ensure that we also provide these people with this very feeling, that basic sense of human self - respect, and no matter where they are. That's it. I say, we'll accept it again, we'll participate in that ritual, we'll accept that report. But I'm afraid I'm saying if something radical isn't done, but that's where I call on the institution of the attorney general to be brave and to really say what he wants from us. Because I remember a colleague, Klaric, finished his term so that the last report did not have an exposé, but he kept quiet and waited for what we were going to say. It was the only change like this compared to those eight standard years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66162	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66163	Dear President, the esteemed Attorney General with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The primary task of the occupier is to protect citizens from the haughtiness and lawlessness of the state authorities. However, the findings of the attorney general in his annual reports are unfortunately repeated year after year, and the responsible ones are doing little or nothing. Following the latest report for 2004, the Parliament tasked the Government with taking measures to make the work of competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. But none of the more effective work, none of the better surveillance. There are almost no areas where public authorities and bodies do not violate human rights and civil rights so that no one is responsible. I'll start with what the attorney general put on the 101st page of his report in section "Various." It's about harsh violations of workers' rights and that in the event of the employer's bankruptcy. There's the content of all complaints equal. The Fund for Development and Employment shall not pay workers their leftover claims but their employee's earned money shall seek to transfer to the jury the creditor's account or to the deposit account of the competent commercial court. The Ombudsman warns the Fund to act against the law and to force workers, whose employer is in bankruptcy, to carry out their claims in the executive procedure and thereby expose them to unnecessary costs. And they don't have any money for those unnecessary expenses. They don't because they haven't paid their wages. And now those who have been denied the money they have earned are forced to expose themselves to new costs for the exercise of their right. So the workers are being punished twice. Until today, the Ombudsman has not informed the Fund of the measures taken for his warning. It's to expect the President of the Fund to be relieved, because then she set it up. But that would really be naive to expect from this government. Here's why. The Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, therefore in charge of workers' care, has adopted some regulation on the content of the labourer's request for the exercise of the right in the event of bankruptcy and, by that rule, the Minister has decreed that workers' money is not paid directly to workers but that it is done through the jury of the employer's account in bankruptcy or through the depository jury of the commercial court's account in charge of bankruptcy proceedings. The story goes on. The trade court in Split, with the support of all trade courts in the Republic of Croatia, submitted a request to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of the famous rule. And the attorney general recommended that he put his office out of force. But no. The minister of course didn't do it. He is awaiting the Constitutional Court's decision, and the Constitutional Court has not decided yet. And when will he decide? We don't know that. By then, workers whose employer is in bankruptcy will be left without their own money, or they will have to conduct long and expensive court proceedings to obtain it. Now, so much for this government, so much for Minister Vukelic, so much for how much they care about the rights of workers. I continue with what the Ombudsman states in Part 5 of my report, in my evaluations and suggestions. For a long time, however loud and in vain, the SDP has warned of the disastrous situation in the judiciary. By constantly repeating that the length of the trial is only one, perhaps not even the biggest problem, and that it is only the result of the overall insufferable situation in the judiciary that has deeper roots. That's exactly the kind of assessment that the attorney general is giving. And it's precisely the kind of evaluation that the attorney general is expected to disagree with HDZ. Unfortunately, despite all warnings and professions and the public, the situation in the judiciary is not assessed within the system sufficiently critical, according to the Ombudsman. The statements and views of the leaders of the Association of Croatian Judges and also a sign of a sign that the ministers and leaders of the judicial authority speak about the real state of justice only when they leave office. The attorney general quotes the text of Dr. Alan Taker from the Croatian Justice Study in the '90s, which analyses the situation after the Law on Courts was passed in '93. A year. And where Professor Zelec says: "The quality of the judicial officials has been violated by a series of political appointments of incompetent, morally questionable and inexperienced judges, as well as by political resolution of all, capable, experienced and determined. In parallel with political appointments and resolutions, the political centres of power in the judiciary have created a fort to ensure both their political positions and their acquired privileges. That is how corporate structures are created that escape democratic responsibility." With this assessment of Dr. Taker, the attorney general agrees and believes that there are today inexperienced and incompetent, but also morally questionable judges. The independence and impartiality of a part of these judges is questionable because they are neither chosen by the criteria of independence and expertise but by the likeness or even the links to political, financial or other interest groups. Therefore, any judicial reform strategy is considered by the attorney general, must be primarily focused on improving and changing the court's staff, and in particular by appointing new judges and making progress strictly towards public and objective criteria. Permanent education and education of all particularly young judges are needed. Systemically monitoring and checking every judge's work is required. The minimum impact and quality standards should be set and removed from the system of judges who cannot meet them. There is a obligation of the judicial administration of senior courts to special depth checks in the event of a suspicion of bias. With this assessment, the SDP's attorney general fully agrees. In 2004 in the 2004 report, the Public Prosecutor proposed that the Croatian Parliament consider the need and possibility of participating in some forms of oversight of the work of courts and judges. But no parliamentary committee has considered the initiative so far, and without the opinion of the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the proposal remains forever dead. In the area of justice, I move on to the relationship between the administration and the citizens. The Advocate General points out the problem of the length of the first-degree and second-degree procedure in all areas of administrative resolution. The fact that legal deadlines are not respected in many administrative areas, and within some reasonable deadlines and procedures for months and years, and that citizens are not informed of the reasons for this, says the Ombudsman, that ministers and other management heads whose portfolios do not respect citizens and do not do their job well. The fact that ministers are not doing their job well is what we know, and we are constantly warning about it in vain. But our warnings fall into deaf ears. Well, we don't have any illusions that the same findings as the attorney general will cause any reaction to the prime minister. In that case, however, it will be necessary to wait for the appropriate voter response. The concerns and actions of the police officers on which this report speaks. Citizens’ complaints are mainly about unprofessional and even illegal treatment, and the law stipulates that a police officer in the exercise of police powers is obliged to act humanly and respect the dignity, reputation and honor of every person, and other fundamental rights and freedoms of man. Undoubtedly, the greatest attention and concern is caused by complaints concerning the violent conduct of police officers mainly in the use of coercion funds and misbehavior outside the service. Particular attention should be paid to complaints relating to unprofessional and rude relations with parties, and to insult and discrimination on a national basis, mainly in relation to the Roma. The occupier requested a report on the number of complaints from citizens, and the police directorate provided a very detailed comprehensive report to the occupier. This report shows that compared to 2000, the number of performances and complaints by citizens of the Department of Internal Control in 2004 was almost doubled, but even worse in 2000, 97.72% of complaints and representations of citizens were resolved while only 52.68% were resolved in 2004. Such a large number of unresolved complaints brought to the Internal Control Department which is responsible for handling the performances and complaints of citizens and legal persons about the illegal conduct and unprofessional behaviour of employees of the Ministry of the Interior certainly does not contribute to the creation of citizens' confidence in the police. The attitude towards active military personnel employed by the Armed Forces speaks sadly of the dissuasion of these people. Namely, the Ombudsman finds that there is a deployment of employed military personnel and officials, please, to non-existent jobs and without appropriate legal act under the rules of special law and administrative procedure. This, however, does not only happen in the military but also in other public services, wherever the ruling one wants to arrest one of his confidant and friend, a party colleague, and in order to do so, they need to remove someone who has been consciously and well performed for years. Cases of violation of the rights of the service and regarding the service including termination of the service were particularly common in the process of making unscheduled officials available after the termination of their posts or the authorities of the state administration or of another state body, the Ombudsman said and continued, and were primarily related to the non-declaration of the status of an unscheduled official for three months after the removal of their posts or individual bodies. As a result, unscheduled officials without a solution to the status of an unscheduled official had no knowledge of which of the unscheduled officials had been deployed at all, and if such knowledge and had, in particular, in the event that officials who I warn do not meet the requirements laid down in this Regulation were assigned to the vacancy. They, as ignorant parties without issuing an appropriate act, did not have the possibility to use a regular legal remedy and to file an administrative action. This kind of behavior represents a rude and deliberate flailing of civil service workers, and it is totally unacceptable. Well, you can't replace someone and yet you can't give him a solution about it so he can't even complain and that he can't accomplish but absolutely no legal remedy. It's one violence against workers working in the civil service. Here's an example. So M.V. from O.C. filed a complaint about a violation of the right resulting from the transfer and deployment of a second post in the state service. ... the prosecutor was transferred from the post of representative of the customs office to the position of senior administrative adviser in the same customs office, although the procedure did not establish the reasons for the need for the service in accordance with the law. The occupier warns the Ministry of Finance that it is necessary to state the reasons for the need for the service, but the Ministry of Finance does not listen to the attorney general. He insists on this shift which is completely illegal. Well, now, this is the kind of treatment of an attorney general by the Minister of Finance, I'm sorry, but the Parliament shouldn't be During. The occupiers are our commissioner and ministers must listen to what the occupier is telling them, which warns them because he speaks for the Parliament of those who chose him. And I finally need to warn about complaints given the right to health care. On 1 October 2005, the Health Insurance Act was amended and the right to compensation for transport costs more than 30 km was abolished. The SDP club immediately sent a proposal to the parliamentary procedure to amend and cruel and pointless legal provisions, but the parliamentary majority, therefore, HDZ and satellites, showed how much they cared about citizens and even when it came to sick children and our proposal was rejected. The government's amendments to the law have just passed a principle debate, followed by a second reading and a question of whether this pointless injustice and unnecessary cruelty will be corrected by the end of the government's term. And what do you say to the conclusion? It seems to us that the Attorney General has written this report with due care and consideration. This is where what we have long known, human rights in Croatia are being violated in all areas, broken by those chosen by citizens who would be expected to show minimal consideration to those who chose them. But we are equally aware that this would be naive to expect from the existing set. The SDP accepts this report by the attorney general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66164	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Stazic claimed that this government does not care about workers, which absolutely does not stand. This government is very concerned with the workers best told by the fact that this government put the first payment order in the bankruptcy proceedings of workers unlike your Social Democratic Party, which put those same workers in the third payment order. And that speaks enough of the social sensitivity of you and your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66166	What will you do, peace please? ... Oh, no, you don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, no, you don't. The representative finds that something is incorrect. ... Yeah? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah? He's lying? I, gentlemen, be something moderate to you. You can't react like this. And you can't, and you can't, it's illegal. It's illegal. If a representative corrects an incorrect claim, he has the right to do so. You don't have the right to react to that. You have no right to react, it's illegal. And for that reason, Mrs. Anticevic and Mr. Stazic have been warned because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You don't have to agree with the allegations of an agent who was correcting an incorrect allegation. You claim it's false but you have no right, you have no right, you know it very well, ask for correction. That's what you don't have the right to throw lies at. ... A fellow Stazic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't shut up, so I hear. Why are you doing this? Well, it's not... Attorney General Jurica Malcic. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66167	Thank you very much. In the middle of the debate, I would very briefly just explain some of the views given the debate so far. The clarification refers to part of my Report which speaks about the judiciary and which speaks about the work of the first State Judicial Council and the appointments after 93 years of adoption of the new Law on Courts. First of all, it is not a political assessment or a historical assessment of a certain period because if I were to engage in those assessments, then I would have to say, of course, that most judges before 90 years ago were appointed by political and other criteria, rather than purely professional ones. However, I did not engage in such grades but should have served it, it should only be served because given the current situation, given that the judges who were then appointed were permanent, they were named practically until the end of their working life, until the 70th year. So that assessment should have only served to say that the judicial profession is not a sancro sant, is not sacred and is subject to the same criteria as all other duties. So, both the State's Attorney's Office and the police and state officials, etc. Only stricter criteria are by which they can be possibly eliminated from the system. And secondly, what's quite clear from my grades is that I'm not in favour of any revolutionary methods that have been spoken of, even in this House recently. It's absolutely just for that control, that evaluation, that monitoring and setting certain standards to be established within the justice system itself. That is why I specifically asked for support for the Supreme Court that started this control, in some ways, to carry out and believe that if it was followed by the State Judiciary Council that this control and control would be. So, it's not, it's not about the majority, it's not about the majority, it's not about the majority, it's not about the majority, it's not about the majority, it's not about the majority, it's not about the majority, it's not about the majority, it's not about the majority, it's about most of the judges, it's about the judges who still exist in the system for the reasons mentioned in the report. So, that general assessment, I thought I should explain it. Absolutely, I'm scrupulously careful not to present assessments that would come out of the field of human rights and enter the political sphere. Finally, I am very pleased to be appointed by the agreement of all parties, and I will always try to stay away from those topics that could be interpreted as such. At the hearing of the distinguished representative Kramaric, I would only say that I do not consider the control of the occupier's staff to advance an important thing in this court. However, the debate itself is useful because the system itself will force the judicial system to pay more attention to what is needed, which is the longevity of these court proceedings and the control of the evaluation of the work of judges. Also, I would say that I have submitted this formal initiative to the 3 parliamentary committees. I therefore believe that there will be a time when it will possibly be discussed in the context of constitutional and legal solutions on the Ombudsman. So, on the other hand, what I thought you should say is you should take care of the character of this report. The Attorney General does not give general assessments of the situation in all areas, the state of all human rights, etc. He can't even do that. He based his report mostly on complaints. That is why we do not praise progress in certain areas, we do not give positive examples, etc. Because it's not the task of any such report. In that sense, I don't present as catastrophic assessments as they did somewhere and in the press, and I think there's a way to take care of it, about the character of such a report. Here, I just thought that, especially in the interpretation of this part of the judiciary, it would be necessary to say in the middle of a debate in order to in some way reduce these controversys.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66168	I'd like to thank Mr. Pussy Attorney General. We have another debate on behalf of the club. Representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the HSU Club, here you are, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66169	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney-General with Associates, Your Honor, Your Honor, It is true that of the 162 pages of the text of the Report of the Public Ombudsman of all non-full 12 pages refers to the rights of pension and disability insurance including the rights of Croatian defenders and their families, to the rights of health insurance and health care of citizens and social care rights. In our court, that's small because we have the next experience. So, based on my experiences relating to mass complaints and financial unequal burdens on citizens, an unequal approach to solving almost identical problems, the lack of justice and justice and solidarity seems to me that this content listed in the Report of the Ombudsman is just the tip of the icy santa problem, i.e. that only those who are persistent and who have not lost any hope in the functioning of the system have addressed the Ombudsman. In the areas mentioned, including labour defaults, underpaid work, different gender pay, black work has a huge number of cases of violations of Croatian citizens' rights, including fundamental human rights. I think that these areas deserve more attention from the attorney general and that it is not enough just to establish the situation and elaborate certain cases, although these cases already show that the state in these areas is being defended or opposed to citizens mainly by the silence of the administration or by being rougher by the force of red tape. And it's not just this term of office. This cannot be attributed only to this government or only to this political composition of the Croatian Parliament, these are the problems that have been present in Croatia for 15 years. As far as the form Report of the Public Prosecutor for the Croatian Party of Retired is concerned, it is absolutely acceptable. As regards the content of the Report, with the comments already made, the report is acceptable and the Croatian party of pensioners will vote for it. What is unacceptable is the multiannual trend of finding, state and describing cases, obstruction of the process and violation of rights in some indirect way glorifying ineffectiveness, or the force of bureaucracy. Such a relationship with ineffectiveness, intransparency, and if we want to see the failure of the system and the lack of individual responsibilities further endangers and reduces citizens' confidence in the effectiveness of the system and the credibility of policies and politicians and every public job. For us in Croatia, a pensioner's party to the opposite of perhaps the aspirations of some for a catastrophic representation of the situation would be a desirable development, for example. why our system of labour inspection is ineffective in controlling and sanctioning labour defaults, insufficient pay and work on black. It would also be desirable for us to find that we actually have three kinds of workers and it's hard to cry here over four cases of threatened rights in the state administration or in, employees of the state administration and local self-government while hundreds of people lose their jobs a day, so they get fired because they don't have adequate eyes or a hairstyle or a suit, because it's possible, because the law allows firing without giving us a valid reason. We also have a category of privileged people who have a working relationship on indefinite times and those who are discriminated against because they will never have such a working relationship indefinitely, but are constantly extending for a certain period of time and are justifiably wondering what will happen to their pension rights tomorrow. Is this whole system not working because of low-paid inspectors, is it because of the poor conditions of the inspector's work, is it because of the lack of authority of the labour inspectors themselves or of the mistrust and fear of workers to violate labour rights to report to the competent inspection? So that's what slowly entering into the core of the problem, and I think that the attorney general has the right and can give such an assessment of where and which are the neurolgic points that we have to correct without intent, I repeat again, of a catastrophic state, but of a real state. It would be desirable to assess that the cause of discrimination is as stated because new pensioners are complaining about discrimination and are rightly complaining. Is the cause of the experimentally implemented pension reform based on the new Pension Insurance Act applicable from 1.1.1999, which further made it worse for the conditions of particularly early retirement changes and additions of that Act in 2002? It should be assessed that the only way to correct this injustice or discrimination against new pensioners which is contrary to constitutional principles of equality is to amend and supplement the Pension Insurance Act which will ensure that pensioners who are retired after 1999 do not exercise the right to II. The pillar shall not be discriminated against. It could and would be desirable to seek alternative solutions, not only in the framework of the pension system, but that is why political will is needed. Surely, the finding that the basic cause in the legal provisions that were thus laid down and in some way cut off some of the constitutional rights or reduced constitutional rights. Such a finding may be a good basis for discussing this and starting to solve this problem. It should also be said because it is no secret information that in a political dialogue with the Croatian Party of Retired Government of the Republic of Croatia established a working group in February 2005 which was supposed to provide answers to the deviation of the entire pension system and there are almost ten categories and citizens of our citizens who are receiving pensions from the former republics and there are deviations in the pension insurance of military persons and agricultural pensions, etc., and there are complaints everywhere. So the task force met once during 2005. Furthermore, in March 2006, the government extended the group to representatives of workers, trade unions and employers and pledged to meet in the dynamics once a month. The task force hasn't met yet and they've been running for two months. This topic in terms of reasoned public debate is avoided because it does not bring political points. Everybody's running away from this. The head of this task force is Mr. Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister, and that should be said publicly and he is the only one responsible for whether or not this task force will meet. It should be said in the light of complaints from citizens on payment of administrative fees in health and non-payment of transport costs that despite the adoption of the Croatian Parliament declaration that, in the process of joining the European Union, the social rights of citizens will not be reduced by a relative majority in the Croatian Parliament despite major opposition, it adopted amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act. The introduction of an administrative fee endangers the foundations of the social state no matter how small the absolute amounts of 30 kuna are because the most, why is it disrupting the foundations of the social state? Because they pay the poorest most, and that's the problem of violating the foundations of the social state. It should be said that these issues are very little discussed in the Croatian public because it is obviously not attractive enough to influence the causes and to conduct a reasoned dialogue and to pursue the desired and possible solutions. We have a debate coming up on a package of health laws. There is a dialogue between social partners. And in public trouble, there's no information. If there is no money, if it is difficult, if the system is deformed someone must tell the citizens and propose solutions rather than solve problems by silence or political position. The following year, the report will be full of complaints from the pension system, especially the collection of compensation to pensioners and I know it, I am ready from A to Z everything we did and what we negotiated on behalf of the Croatian Party of pensioners together with the associations of pensioners to present to the public because I have no fence. I want it done by the competent ministry, the government and the HZMO. Therefore, the public and our citizens and pensioners have the right to the truth. It's not the attorney general who's going to solve these problems. These are technical problems and they should not have existed in my opinion and should not have been burdened in this year by the attorney general. In particular, the lack of information concerns information from public services and executive authorities. In Croatia, the party to the pensioners think that the public defender should also act in a preventive manner and give his assessment of the laws that the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes in the parliamentary procedure in the context of agreement with constitutional provisions, international legal acts, agreements, conventions, resolutions and acts of the Croatian Parliament, so also our declarations and resolutions that we adopt here in the Croatian Parliament. So, although the public defender is an exponent of the Croatian Assembly, a kind of executive arm that can intervene, impose, ask for consistent application of the law in Croatia we party to the pensioners think that he should be given more power, that he really represents the conscience of the society tomorrow than today, but also conscience and help representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Party of Retired Persons accepts the evaluations and proposals of the Ombudsman and considers them fundamental provisions to create a sort of action plan that should also be proposed by the Croatian Parliament without the conclusion of the Parliament, so by initiative, the Croatian Government proposes in terms of effective removal of the deviations of the systems shown here. He can't be a civil defender in two extremes. First, it can't be a red cloth to intimidate institutions. And secondly, we can't let him have the "holy water" effect. It's just not allowed. He plays a very serious role in our Croatian political system and our society. Of course, what we propose requires political will, the will to work for the common good and the will to change first ourselves and then everyone around us. Says one aphorism that the crisis upstairs is just reruns. It is inadmissible regardless of the content of the 2005 report compared to previous years, it is unacceptable to review the implementation of proposals and conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. And it's not right that everything's the same as last year and there's nothing new. Gentlemen, the date is new and the problem is old and that says we're not changing much, which means we're not making progress, we're falling behind. Unfortunately, our time is not in this context a friend and the ex post mind is always the most expensive mind because it is based on the method of trying and making mistakes. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed attorney with your associates, appreciate the request of the Croatian party of pensioners to solve the problems identified by the work of the attorney general and let's all get involved. The Croatian party of pensioners with three MPs is not strong enough political force to fight all the problems identified but will contribute to joint efforts to build a system of custom citizens in exchange for action procedures for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66170	I thank the representative of Hrelja on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First it is Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66171	So he incorrectly argued when he said that citizens in the majority are addressing the occupier because they have confidence in state institutions. The citizens are just speaking, that you have said this in the introduction, address the occupier as they do not trust the institutions and have confidence in the occupier who is not bianko but who is objectively acquired by his own work and by engagement in the protection of man, to protect individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66172	Thank you. We'd like to ask you to do that after my colleagues' meeting. The next correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66173	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would correct the incorrect quote when Mr. Hrelja on several occasions says, "We must." Here he seems to have mixed up some things. We, in opposition to some things we want to do, but since the Croatian party of pensioners is in power, he should talk about how they will force the government to make future reports of the occupier not as they are now. Not bad, but full of what he himself has listed as shortcomings in our society. Well, Mr. Hrelja, I remind you, you're part of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66174	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Agent Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66175	Thank you very much. I have to correct a respected colleague, the Temple, so that the Attorney General can charge someone with something. I quote: "Unfortunately, the attorney general cannot impose anything on anyone or report or commit anything. He receives complaints and complaints from citizens, asks for answers and tries to help citizens." And he reports us with this and every other report on the state, and we are the ones who can impose something on someone. So last year, we ordered the government to reach a unanimous conclusion to secure more money in the budget for this year. That's not what the government suggested. And this Parliament also refused the amendment to the budget where more money was asked for. We ordered the government to make recommendations it made in its report, and when the government showed about this year's report, it says they read it and forwarded it to their bodies. So we ordered two things. She didn't execute any.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66176	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Ms. Milanka Opačić. She's not losing her right. Next up is the representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next up is representative Luka Bebić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next up is MP Florian Boras. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next up is the representative of the Crown of Peronja. He's gone. Loses the right Uh, sorry you were just here so I'm looking at you. [[/Intruder: He's got it!]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66177	At the right time, at the right time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66178	Excuse me. So Mr. Representative Kruno Peronja. [[/Intruder: Madam Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66179	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Public Advocate and Associates, colleagues and colleagues are just like this, this report confirms to us how slow but courageously the new institutions break through to the social life of the Republic of Croatia and how useful they are to this very one, this legislative body can and must critically read the report and impose and encourage those who, according to that report, have to do something. In a large number of the critical remarks mentioned here, I will single out some that are closest to me and actually to citizens who are most important and who feel almost in everyday life and work. These are the ones concerning local and regional self-government, as this report found that the civil society's occupancy was brought up by complaints that pointed to irregularities and an untimely resolution of individual, administrative and other issues raised by the unit's department of local and regional self-government. As well as irregularities in the handling of representative, executive bodies of those units in matters of interest to all citizens in the area of the unit concerned. This is exactly the kind of approach we should be offered to react more resolutely and to make such complaints as little as possible in a way that truly citizens exercise their rights and not that certain mayors, the mayors are at the very least deafening about exactly what the local self-government units are talking to them about. It is also very clear that complaints from citizens also refer to the adoption of general and other acts in the field of municipal affairs. Management and availability of real estate and similar services by representative, executive bodies. And they have had an impact on the real interests of the citizens and on complaints which the citizens warned of infringements of their rights by acts of legal persons with public authority which they had brought by those legal persons, with the consent of the representative or executive bodies of the units under special law. It's exactly the kind of string that, to call it a little awkward, sounds that should be detected and very administratively unsettled, and indeed that the bodies of the local and regional self-government units justify the reason for their existence in the fullest sense of that word. The report also speaks very clearly of the need for more consistent implementation of administrative supervision in accordance with the procedure and powers for the implementation of the administrative supervision laid down in the Law on the System of State Administration to which the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government refers. So good law, excellent law. It cannot be considered effective, it is good unless it is used and executed. And that's why I'm always in favor of rewarding civil servants in administrative supervision. Not to be constantly talking about surplus employees in the state administration but to think about how and in what way to encourage people like that who have been working for decades in the state administration, who know their job well, and often because of the lack of elementary means of action, they cannot carry out the jobs for which they have been elected, which they have been appointed. It is also very clear and indicated that right in the state administration, local self-government is almost a problem and greater than we have too much and often emphasis in the judicial system. This is a comprehensive and quality report. Of course it should be supported, but during this period we should indeed strive to make a very large number of remarks here really correct, because it is in this part where the resolution of citizens' demands in administrative procedures is processed that the attitude of administrative bodies towards citizens is not good. The administrative authorities shall not resolve objects within reasonable time limits. There is no efficient system of monitoring solutions in administrative matters. What else can we do here? I would like to point out that even after this report, the relevant bodies have submitted to us a report on whether they have both acted in both ways and in accordance with what is justified and what we know about those who work together and who live in the area of individual municipalities and cities. In any event, the Government has confirmed one more time of efficiency and efficiency, as the report in question, on the basis of the report in question, and has entrusted the competent authorities of the State Administration with taking appropriate measures within the scope of its work. Now we should see for a time within a certain period of whether it is 3 or 5 or 6 months to see if it is really done and how it is done. If it were completely effective this report we made. A report on what needs to be done, how it should be done and whether those relevant bodies that are obliged to act on whether or not they have acted on this report. Because state administration, local self-government without so well-developed can't even make assumptions about raising the quality of life, for economic development, for developing health care and all that it does in a society the quality of life. A direct contact with a public defender who has almost visited the entire country to convince in a direct way the reasons for such complaints is about a modern approach, not a cabinet, and I would like the government, in direct contact with the Ombudsman, to consider certain objections and to remove them in order to resolve them more quickly. Therefore, we cannot but fully support and I will personally advocate it, but I would like to point out one more time that the emphasis on administrative supervision, respect for the system of state administration and local self-government should be more determined and faster to work so that it is indeed not only on the satisfaction of citizens but exactly in accordance with the law and regulations of a modernised state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66180	Thank you, Mr. Peronja. We have one replica. Mr. Rebic, here you go, Mr. Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66181	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In fact, I agree with you about local self-government and the complaints that came out of it to the attorney general. However, what I think should be particularly highlighted and what is for the first time in the Ombudsman's report when it comes to local self-government and state self-government, and this should be highlighted in the system of salaries and the material position of staff in the administration. So these are those issues that affect the professionalism, quality and motivation of state administration employees. Because it's common knowledge that, and that's what Peronja and I know well, we worked in the same county and shared the same problems. So, like most government employees. It is this disproportionate pay that is in the state administration in relation to the economy and local self-government that poses major problems in the functioning and quality behaviour of functions in the state administration. But we were also witnesses, and me and my colleague Peronja, pours out a number of highly expert personnel from the state administration into local self-government, and that's also what they feel in the receipts of new, highly skilled staff, because they're really paying detimizing, and I think we need to find a way, so as a society to bring it into some kind of relationship because otherwise we're going to have a very bad state administration because these salaries don't stimulate, but all of the people who are high-level take away. I think it's the quality of this report by the attorney general, and it's the first time that it's spread to that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66182	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. The next is Ms. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66183	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General, with his hardworking associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. In this report, the occupier of the occupier, who has been adjudicating to us today, spoke to parliamentarians the cry of the oppressed, disfellowshipped, threatened, humiliated, who are all of this because of the lawlessness of the government. Why do I think this document is so valuable, so perhaps the most valuable thing that has happened in the Croatian Parliament for the past few years? He's not talking about big strategies, some futures, fogs. He's talking specifically about a man. He has no distinction here between Croats, Bosniaks, Serbs, Montenegrins, Italians, or Ukrainians. He speaks of a man, of an individual, of dignity, of the threat of that man. He speaks here very, very specifically. That's why it seems to me, and that's also the size of the material that tells me that almost even though we've always had quality reports from the attorney general that it's never been done before in such an exhaustive way, in such a comprehensive way. And this deserves the support and commendation of those who are brave, who have come to a position such that they have not smudged themselves but all who put all their strengths, intellectual, moral, and universal in the service of precisely calling, professions. True, Croatian society has few and too few, but there are. And that's how it should be supported, but very specific. Let's just remember that we're just looking for an attorney general to make this work as high as possible and as concrete as possible. Others might have escaped and not asked for additional powers, as this means both additional work and additional engagement. However, despite the absolute agreement of the will of all clubs and almost all individual debates, this will fall almost into oblivion, by the next year when again, together with the public defender, we will weep over the fate of the individual. I will concentrate my debate on only one part, but very thorough, which is an integral part of this report, which was discussed in detail by our Committee on Human Rights, on the state of human rights in our prisons where there is a special separatist, very serious and extensive material on which the responsible authority would imagine that there will be a rebellion tomorrow, but there have already been riots in prisons. But there's one total silence. This is why the responsible should resign. This doesn't apply to a specific minister because this applies to last year. But surely if the situation isn't drastically changed, that's exactly what this finding requires. You see, some colleagues find that funny. It's funny that our media is talking hell behind bars. Let me point out, in 2003, international institutions, including the Red Cross, praised the state of human rights in our prisons and penitentiary. To get two years into a state like this that the media rightly calls hell behind bars. And as the government refers to the teams that are the weakest at the moment, they generally do. We have so many images of the state of democracy and the state of human rights in the country. Prisons have cold, moisture and smell, hepatitis and TBC infection, no doctors. The prisoners in the prisoners of the beach are cockroaches and rats. Sodomy, a lack of psychiatrists cause abuse and rape. That's never happened before. Never. But that's our reality now. He says that in this report of his, so very serious 2 months, his deputy Mr. Fir and Mrs. Ira Bedrac have visited our penitentiary and prisons. And this fat book is the result of this quest. But you see what the government says and the government says about this situation. In particular, the report on the state of human rights in prisons, penitentiary facilities and educational institutions. He says like this, the report by the attorney general on the state of human rights is based primarily on direct insight into the areas where they live and work all categories of prisoners, and talks with managers and prisoners, but this has not been used by our reports. So direct insight is something very bad. They were supposed to be used by their reports that they saw later in this report, they're false, they're swarming with false false data, even by not knowing things, so there's no telling what's worse than what. It is said that the security problem is also in prison one big one, as the security officer is missing, is causing a threat and violation of the rights of prisoners, detainees and convicts. What is employed is final by 2003. But you see miracles. The state administration's up and running, but it's got a new mode of operanda doing the job. Now, no more commercials, no more competitions, no more than how many people are reporting to us through POA. Because she doesn't have reports, or she doesn't have to publicly publish an ad and a competition, so they hire people in POA, she's one or two days, and then she's pro-circulating into the system simply because of the need for work, she's being transferred elsewhere. It's a new modus operanda that's not so rare, but a common phenomenon. And in POA, we have an employee and a professional fisherman. In prisons, there's a particular person in Varazdin who doesn't have his own bed. He sleeps on an extra mattress that is placed under the other bed during the day, and he stays there. It abuses, or reduces the possibility of quality defence. You're making it impossible to talk to a lawyer. Visiting hours are shortened. Of course, it violates the Penal Code. The duration of detention is also played out, thus making it impossible for the execution or legal execution not only later, but also for the detention itself. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The penal code can't even be reached. The spacious, health, hygiene conditions, conditions for the accommodation of prisoners, detainees and convicts are very bad. In certain prisons and penitentiary facilities, it can be concluded under all health and hygiene standards, and completely inappropriate to human dignity. This is what you gentlemen in power have done for 2 years of government that you are from Croatian prisons that were almost a role model, always a modest condition, but you have been a role model for Croatian "casamats". In the prisoners of the beach, mice, beach rats, mold. That's what this report says. You're surprised and you're digging up. Instead of taking a concrete stand and changing. Inmates, it's in the staff report stealing food, i.e. meat. Furthermore, prisoners themselves often use their own work to train the rooms they are staying in in order to later deliver fictitious accounts to some non-existent companies. The most catastrophic is the situation in Osijek, where just as the civil defender, or his deputies, was welcomed. We were very unkindly welcomed by the staff, and they told us to sit here in a room where prisoners have visits until the warden arrives. The warden had no idea how many prisoners, detainees. First, he listed the wrong number, the smaller number, so when it was determined it was just the opposite, he said he didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66184	Comrade Antičević, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66185	So the whole report is swarming with just such catastrophic conditions, and we really need to do something, and I'm going to suggest that the Justice Committee has a very thematic session on exactly this report on the state of human rights in prisons and penitentiary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66186	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by Mr Furio Radin. Here's your colleague, Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66187	Thank you very much. I only replicate one point, otherwise I share Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic's concerns about the situation in prisons today. What I don't understand is that comparison between today and three years ago. Suddenly in 2003, it was exemplary, and today it's catastrophic. It's a disaster today, but I think that this picture that the D.A. got and the method he used for the first time actually went unannounced in prisons. I believe that both the Red Cross and the rest of the years before, in all the years before, have not come unannounced. So if you go really thoroughly, objectively to look, then I think you're going to find yourself very well, not just in prisons, but in many other institutions the situation is a real situation that's catastrophic. The method means... It's for every praise, we've established it on the board, and I just can't believe it. Let's say that the Red Cross came unannounced in 2003. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66188	Thank you. Replication response, Mrs. Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66189	You can believe it or not believe it, but there are little objective data about it. The international cross when it comes in secret, even its report is secret until certain bodies publicly declare it, so the next objective indicators that speak, so our prisons have always been somewhat re-traced, but in some prisons up to 170, 180% have not been, and the further we prepare with the amendment of the Penal Code where these children and youth will be staying, I wonder only where. Whether in such a prison system according to which, according to youth at all, it is also one part of the report that does not work, that is, not measures or treatment of addiction are carried out, but we have prepared for them, so this is the future waiting for them. Instead of treatment, we prepare this for our youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66190	Thank you. Next replica, Mr. Agent Niko Rebic. Here's your colleague, Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66191	Thank you. Look when you're in opposition it's always good and desirable to criticize, and when it comes to us it's normal, the government for everything and everything, and it's too much. But it would be good for the Croatian public to say how much your government is when it cut salaries to state-run tenants and officials, how much she participated in today for the first time in a report by the attorney general we have these complaints. So is this the reduction of wages that you've made to civil servants and officials, is that the result of this extended report, and for the first time, to appear with the attorney general? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66192	I warn you that the Croatian public has just been disfellowshipped, as it has just stopped direct transmission. Replication response, Mrs. Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66193	Thank you very much for this replica, so you're letting me say something that may be public, and perhaps also unknown to you. Just at the time when it's true, the salaries of civil servants and tenants were reduced, and ours was one of the biggest mistakes, at that time 30%, so by the law on special terms, we rose at the time of my term of office, when I was a resolute minister, so it increased by 30%, so the legal maximum to the working conditions of exactly prison guards. You may not have known this, but here's the information you know from now on, and I think it's very important to note that it's stopped with the employment of police, judicial police officers to whom it does, therefore, who demand that our prisons continue and the judicial authorities demand the need for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66194	Thank you. Next up is representative Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66195	Dear Madam Vice President, I agree that this is a poor situation in Croatian prisons, but I disagree with the finding that such a situation has never been bad. I have here a testimony from Peter Babic, who was in prison in Leprechaun from 45 to 53, and says a larger group brought us with... So they placed us in a cell where the snow was broken and the glass was broken, and there was no covering, and there was no heating, that we should not speak. [[You don't understand.]] First thing tomorrow, with us in the deep snow, wearing rocks, eight hours was due to endure, and the food of the right slave, 250 grams of corn, and some cooked tail almost without fat, so live goods or die. Therefore, there is a situation that was far more difficult, now that I am not reading the whole letter, and I also agree with that employment-related finding, and this is evident in the report regarding the violation of the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families in terms of employment, is this being systematically violated and so perfiduous that when they see that a Croatian defender or someone who fulfils the right then cancels the tender and puts conditions which he does not meet and republishs. If a defense attorney doesn't meet again, then he'll go three times. That's what you need to be deeply concerned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66196	Thank you. I'm asking you to be patient. Replication response, Mrs. Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66197	Well, dear fellow, whatever we're talking about here, you keep thinking about Yugoslavia. I've been thinking about the situation since 1990, and this situation is really worrying. In Leprechaun, for example, it stops with that renovation, and there is just a public defender and commended it, the bedrooms are bright, neat, clean, but the kitchen is catastrophic. It's still there, it's still the kitchen, the kitchen was supposed to be renovated further in Lepoglava, but the tiles are falling off it, it's moldy, the cockroach has as much as you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66198	Thank you. And another replica, Mrs. Representative Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66199	Madam President, by coloring the 25-Siban Youth Day voiced these words by counterpart Ingrid Anticevic. Well, in Varazdin, I don't have that color of voice, nor can I quote it like that, but at least I'll say, "Well, there's a prisoner in Varazdin who doesn't have a personal bed, but in the course of the day, he's under a mattress under someone else's bed. If the former minister had bought beds in a Varazdin prison instead of elevators, he could have slept in yoga today." That'd be the first one. Second, comparison of prisons and situations and conditions today. Surely, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic, you have not read many books about the situation in prisons. From 45th to 90th, since we're both women, I'm going to give you one book of "a4 prisoners in a burning prison." I don't want to read the situation here in the Croatian Parliament, and I'm just telling you something else. Since when is this situation in prison? You had three years so you didn't do something, and we would have inherited it. Nothing can be inherited from you but your aphorisms, I hope one day no one will quote them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66200	Thank you. The reply to the replica, Mrs Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66201	Since you and I are in years, then why do you regret, or have something against youth, or one day like that? Ma'am, as far as I'm concerned, MPs, as far as the 950,000-dollar elevator is concerned, so almost...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66202	I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66203	... one million kunas, intended just for disabled people who couldn't reach the administrative bodies for a year and a half. You laugh at it and make fun of it. Furthermore, what has been done has been created a new circular wall. The leprechauns of all rooms in which they stay in the fifth wing are restored. A whole series of things happened, of course, that's not possible for four years, nor is that, ma'am, possible...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66204	Representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66205	... nor is it possible that you did it during this term of office. I'm sure it's a job and some of the next government. But if you hadn't done anything about it, but if you were for the ministry, the ministry has moved to new grand areas that are spent annually, please, where three judicial new buildings could be obtained, not to mention these mattresses. Then they're "peace of Chucks" or little things compared to that. It wasn't bought, no vehicle was bought, but it was bought for the ministry...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66206	That's where you could calm down, counselor, before the warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66207	Ma'am, this has never happened before in this state. And one more thing about the human relationship. Please, he called a prisoner to allow him to have a telephone conversation with a father who is 102 years old, he's gravely ill. He was rejected. My father died two days later.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66208	Thank you. I think it's very inappropriate, Agent Bagaric, tossing from the bench like this. You think for yourself about your behavior, don't pollemize with me, and now shut up. We've finished the debate and we have a vote for today at 3:00. A debate on this topic continues on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66209	Please determine the quorum and engage to determine. The result? 80. We have a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda of the 20th session to the next points. First, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing a European Molecular Biology Laboratory with the Final Proposal of the Law. Secondly, the Final Proposal of the Sport Act. Third, Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions. Fourth, Final Proposal of the Law on Theatres. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading. Sixth, Proposal for a Law on a fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, first reading. Seven, Proposal for a Household Activity Act, first reading, P.Z. Eight, Proposal for a Law on the Declaration of Nature Park "Lastovo Otokje", first reading. Ninth, Proposal for a Law on Adult Education, first reading. 10th, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention for the Regulation of Kitols, emergency procedure. Eleventh, Proposal for an annual accounts of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. 12th annual report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA 2005 on 2006 Thirteenth annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2005 Fourteenth, the annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2005. And 15, annual Report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. We have a proposal for two emergency procedures. That's the first one. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing a European Molecular Biology Laboratory? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 82 for and 5 abstentions included this bill's proposal in the agenda by emergency procedure. And secondly, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention for the Regulation of whaling? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 82 for and 2 abstentions it is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of them have any agents. What? ... Take it easy, let's take the order of Tonchi. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. Other proposed points of Tonchi, that's what we'll do. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. Keep going. Today, we will not vote for the necessary harmonisation of the amendment, the government's position on two laws. First, on the final proposal of the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. And secondly, the amendments and additions to the Penal Code. Thirdly, the HSP club requested that the vote on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Energy Community Treaty be postponed until the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system has been shown, whether or not it is a law adopted pursuant to Article 227. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by two-thirds majority. Therefore, it is the position of the HSP club and that it is a law which is passed by a two-thirds majority, because it is an interstate contract, an international contract which gives powers to an international organisation or alliance, as laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Mr. Bosnjakovic, will you call a session for next week and give your opinion and discuss whether Article 227 applies. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and then we will not vote on this proposal today. Was that a colleague of Tadic's? That was it. Let's go then. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66210	You did not put our Law on the agenda according to an emergency procedure on public roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66211	I haven't made a lot of bills on public roads, nor will I bring them in because I don't have to and I don't need to, and I don't have to, given the business provisions. 205. We're going to the vote. We don't have much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66212	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I warmly welcome you all, not in any large number, but I welcome those who are here. We continue the session and agenda item Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2005. It's time to discuss Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right. Then Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I want to point out and remind you of a sentence that the Ombudsman has said explaining his report in the area of the county tour when he particularly apostrophe part of the report relating to the Međimurje County. I spoke with all the participants of the meetings that were held in Međimurje that day. They said that what the report says is indeed one credible record of everything that was going on there. This is mentioned in the context and the evaluations of Mr. Advocates that the great shouting and shouting, calling out for everything that is happening around the Roma community in Međimurje, is the result of local and regional self-government starting a series of major projects seven, eight years ago, and when you start to do something, you must have the possibility of criticism and error, so for years we have been on a pillar of shame under quotes because of these activities, and in fact about the content of what is happening, which is and is doing almost no more serious debate in Croatian public speech and politics. I am particularly pleased that Mr. Public Attorney has noticed a number of positive changes that occur from the education system, preschool education, urbanization of Roma settlements, 12 as many as there are in Međimurje. Another thing I want to say is that I have a bitter feeling, I feel bitter after reading this report, and I have doubts about whether the Prime Minister Sanader's government, with our help, is actually trying to abolish the institution of the Ombudsman. The assessment may seem too harsh to you, but when we remind ourselves of the third June of last year, when we adopted conclusions after the debate on the report by the Ombudsman for 2004 we made three points of conclusion. At the first wheel, we accepted the report. In the second Parliament, it obliged the Government to provide in the budget the necessary financial resources according to the plan which was an integral part of the report. So, the attorney general proposed a plan that we accepted and said that we should give sufficient resources for its realisation. Neither the Government in the draft budget nor the Parliament respected its own conclusion, nor accepted the adopted plan, nor provided enough funds and now falls out the next. The Assembly appoints a vacancy attorney. Let's adopt his plan. Promises of financial means and then we don't give the swear. But the Norwegian government gave the crowns, so that the field section of the staff attorney's work could continue. Now, is the Advocate General of the Norwegian Government or the OSCE or this Parliament? I think that this Parliament, which we should make and implement through our conclusions, so if the Government in its proposals of documents, in this case the budget does not carry out what we have said, then it must be us who will help an institution that we have appointed to carry out its tasks. The third point of the conclusion was that all opinions, objections and proposals, and in particular recommendations of the Ombudsman, given in the report, we are delivering to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Assembly delivered the conclusions and recommendations of the Ombudsman to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the government's opinion on last year's report, the government did not express itself in a single word on these recommendations. In her opinion, she merely said that she had read and instructed the competent authorities of the state administration to do something about it under their authority. Can we qualitatively consider this report and the results of the work of the Ombudsman if we don't get a government statement that she made on the recommendations of last year? I don't think so. I think we need to ask the government to take note of these recommendations and their implementation in order to know what to do with this report and how to place in the future the powers of the attorney general. As for the content of specific examples in my discussion, I will look only at two parts. The first one refers to the pension part. The Attorney General gives an overview that in the past year he had 1653 cases of which 436 were related to pension rights because it is somewhere one quarter of the total number of cases. That the most common cause of citizens' address to him was so-called. the silence of the administration, and every year so far by the number of cases ending with the occupier of the pension insurance rights, i.e. the number of cases referred to by the pension service is first. They're always in first place. I simply don't understand what's going on in that pension system that we've been warning for years that the largest number of cases, the largest number of people who address the occupier, and that neither the Governing Council of the Croatian Institute that we appoint in our report has ever shown themselves about the reasons for such a large number of cases, and what those we are putting at the head of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office are taking to make these, the number of items less and to finally leave the first place to someone else. However, is this thousand 653 cases the same number of citizens? Is that the same number of human fates? I don't think it's because I remind you that in my report, the attorney general warns us that he's so-called. The category of new pensioners created in 1.1.1999 following the adoption of the pension reform warns of the fact that it is about the exercise of pension insurance rights and... Generational solidarity and that the pension law does not depend on this reform and these laws, neither on the length of the employment, nor on the amount of the contribution, but on the moment of the exercise of that right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's important when you retire, not for how long and how fate is generational solidarity. And that there are now over 100,000 citizens of this country, there is a new category of citizens, who simply by the fact that the crucial moment of retirement is gaining less and less pension rights. And that these people are looking for the financial skills of the pension gap they make after the introduction of the pension reform and how much would they realize that there are no elements of a new social injustice in the system of generation solidarity. A large number of citizens can count, write. And so I was approached by a man who handled his own case and set an example for me to apply the pension reform of his pension, who retired in January 2003, is less 43% than he retired on December 31st, '98. According to the Ministry of Peacekeeping, the average pension solution, hence the age, was not premature, amounting to a thousand 220 kuna. If we compare 2005 to 2004, the average pensions of those who then retire are less than 12.8%. If we compare 2005 to 2000, the first year of full implementation of the reform, then the decline in average pensions is 17.3%. Simulating the last year of the transitional period, which is the 2009 average retirement age, therefore not premature, will be at 980 kuna level. If we already know the future of this and the direction of movement, and based on this warning, it is the obligation of the Croatian Parliament, then it is our obligation to take this warning seriously and try either to offer a solution or to force the government to respond to the fact of the warning of the Ombudsman. The second part of the report relates to the administration, whether state, local, regional, public authorities. The Advocate General said that the situation in this area of management's relations with citizens has not changed significantly and improved, and that one of the reasons still in place in the administration is that a continuous system of monitoring, control, surveillance and promotion has not been introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66214	Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66215	That the state administration needs help with its tasks. And I'm sorry that there are no representatives of the Office of State Administration and Government here today so they can hear what they're doing in that part of a warning by the attorney general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66216	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66217	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Attorney General. And the first thing I have to say is that I have to protest on my own behalf and on behalf of the Croatian party of rights club, because it's visible that today and I don't know until when there won't be a TV broadcast of the session of the Croatian Parliament, because there are no cameras here at all, and we, like, have no official explanation. And I think that at this session today, as is the report by the Ombudsman, such as the prosecutor's report on gender equality, and the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the peace missions in Afghanistan certainly has interesting situations and things so that the Croatian public finds out what and how it is done in the Croatian Parliament. Or, obviously, the Croatian Parliament will also become an institution through this move of Croatian Radio Television, as has become a public defender, to only establish everything that is happening and to express in a certain way the inability to fix this situation. So that's why I'm going to read you article 92 at the beginning of my debate. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says: "Pučski right counsel is the authority of the Croatian Parliament that protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies that have public authority.". And then he continues to say, "As part of the Ombudsman institution, protection of constitutional and legal rights will be ensured in procedures conducted in the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces, security services, protection of citizens' rights against local and regional authorities, regional, self-government, and protection of rights to local and regional self-government against state authorities.". So we have constitutional provisions, we have a report by the attorney general, and we have a law that says that, as the occupier has really strong measures to achieve, Article 92 will be implemented in the work. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says: "The Ombudsman protects constitutional and legal rights." and which measures he has, a warning, a recommendation, advice and may possibly ask the Government, to apply for, say, an annulment under the law of individual supervision. Here, now we have to, now we face this reality. The constitution says one thing to do. We've got the Law on the Attorney General, we've got the report, and the Attorney General himself says what his measures are. The measures are such that there are many, and in fact there are no measures, there are no measures. And what will be the message if we only get a report from year to year that essentially determines the impotence of the Ombudsman in relation to the violation of both the constitutional and the legal rights of Croatian citizens. We can't deal with that clearly. So we have to take the appropriate measures, go to the amending laws, and do it on the next variant, to introduce a binding order institute. Because what to say about this case that really stings your eyes, and it's about the ministry, so to speak briefly, Calmetino, which is in the second-degree procedure of 14000 787 cases. So 14 thousand 787 items are something about 800 complaints, and then they say they're committed and diligently working overtime to solve 100 objects per month. Watch out they say 100 items a month. It takes them at least 10 years, but not a single new item to solve these existing items. And what we're going to do, are we just going to understand this part that 14 thousand 787 Croatian citizens are unsuccessfully trying to achieve their right to an appropriate means of administrative procedure, and the second-degree body boasts how it works, how it works even overtime and arrives monthly, says as many as 100 items. So it takes at least 10 years to bring them to a zero situation without other requirements coming about to achieve these rights. If we agree today that we will receive it again, what message then we refer to the Croatian public. So we must go in responsibly, and reach the conclusion that it is necessary to change and supplement the Law on the Ombudsman if we really want the Ombudsman to be the authority of the Croatian Parliament and to protect the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. He can't do it now at his best, with all the effort and all this stuff that's been shown here. He can't, he doesn't have mechanisms, he doesn't have powers. Therefore, it must have a binding order that the authorities of the State and the judicial authorities in certain situations must comply with these orders in order to determine the actual situation. Let's just say what powers are, and the attorney general himself said in the report that the situation has become, the illegal has become normal, and that is to say the authorities of the state government, the central authorities do not act according to the judgments of the administrative court, let's say that there is a situation, two or three verdicts, they go from the beginning each time. What kind of message is that, then? It means that these authorities themselves, which should be in the role of law enforcement, are breaking the laws. And now we're coming up, I remember the principle of Roman law that says something like this. A good law will become a bad law if bad people do it. Here is the situation for us now with the state administration, the situation with courts and others who do not comply with the requirements of citizens to comply with a law that does not enforce, for example, judgments of courts. So that's the variant. And God forbid it is the same principle of Roman law that says that even a bad law can be good if it is implemented by good people, and we now have a completely reverse variant that we have good laws that we have passed in the Croatian Parliament but have become bad laws because they do not implement or implement bad people at all. If we stay on this and listen to this report for a year without any legal change, without giving specific powers to the Ombudsman, then we will send a really wonderful message to the Croatian people, see, we have discussed, we have talked about your problems, but everything else is the same as the old ones. That's why I said on behalf of the club if this institution doesn't get concrete powers not to empower it, they'll turn into Pop Ducanin's summer records that every time they just find out what the situation is and realize that it doesn't work for the central authorities of the state that it doesn't work, so the state administration doesn't do its part of the job, that the courts don't do their part of the job, and he doesn't have any concrete options to fix this situation. Therefore, I would not continue to debate because it is evident that in the field of protection of the rights of Croatian defenders, what I have repeatedly said is a particularly visible problem of how legal provisions are being played, and this is about competitions in employment, whether it is about the state administration or whether it is about public enterprises, that it is aimed at doing the same, the competition is being announced, so if the Croatian defender who meets the conditions comes forward, then that competition will be annulled and something that he, which he does not meet, will go on forever until he gives up or again makes some new conditions that he will not meet. Therefore, this is a very bad message to Croatian citizens, the Croatian public, and it is also against Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia unless we agree to do something concrete, that the Ombudsman will become a real institution and authority of the Croatian Parliament and that he will protect the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. He now has no such protection options, he only has the ability to establish, he has the opportunity to warn, give advice and various measures which are essentially one great nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66218	Thank you. It is Mrs. Zdenka Babić Petricevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The report on the work of the Public Ombudsman for 2005 was praised, it was good for some and the grades were falling differently, I will say that the 2005 report on the work of the Public Attorney for 2005 was traditional for me, and the introduction of the Ombudsman was unobstructed because it pointed to the problems of one group of people or Croatian citizens in the Republic of Croatia, while others were neglected. The problems of individuals or groups on scale are not put in place but are trying to solve themselves as they can, and especially when it comes to those who still have to do what is necessary, which is the roof over their heads, so I will say the following, I will look back here on the report on the work of the Ombudsman, and I will, in particular, refer to the item you described here, citizenship, or requests for admission to Croatian citizenship, are still taking place and not only after a few weeks or a few months, after a few years. I will quote from your report the following sentence: Since the complainants are instructing the multiannual duration of the procedure of admission to Croatian citizenship, an indication of the number of cases which are in resolution and their duration as well as other cases of response by the Assistant Minister of the Interior has been submitted within the legal deadline of 4 January 2006, so it is not necessary to underline this, it is his job and duty. But I will only point to data during 2004. That's how it happened for 2005. Some 13 thousand 752 applications for 2004, 2005 and several more or less each year were received. From that, three thousand 994 were unsettled for 2004, so I will point out what I told you were in the introduction and the report itself unobstructed. During 2005, there was a drop in the number of lawsuits for the reason that applicants for admission to Croatian citizenship who wish to obtain Croatian citizenship meet the legal requirements, but cannot come up with a single document, which is called proof of the conformity of the Croatian people. Of these 3 thousand 994 unsolved, the most negatively unsolved are members of the Croatian people. You were told at the Ministry of the Interior why. I wanted to present this information to you, so I hope in your 2006 report you will not only bring up the problems of a group of people in the Republic of Croatia. So I will immediately connect to the item, your entry "emergency, exile, returnees and return of property and reconstruction for 2005". Just when I say that you are unobstructed, you are unobstructed in this part of your report because the Constitution prescribes Article 3 that we are all equal under the law and the Constitution prescribes that, in particular, it quotes Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the part describing the work and responsibility of the Ombudsman. You point to a national minority, to resolve these problems slowly and to resolve these problems slowly. I ask you if you have visited all those who have been exiled from Bosnia and Herzegovina and exiled Croatian immigrants to the Republic of Croatia. Croatian citizens with place of residence in the Republic of Croatia. This is where the Croats from Vojvodina belong, this is where the Croats from Kosovo belong. You have not presented the number of data, i.e. their unsolved items, regarding a permanent solution, a permanent housing solution. And especially those documents, as well as the Croatian ID cards from Romania. These are the problems that are certain that you, who and those people come to your door every day, so I hope that their problems, their problems, can't be solved, but you can equally point out as part of those people that you have stressed here that they are slowly and slowly solving. And then I'll also point out something that you didn't take advantage of, and you could use it. In a conversation with your colleagues from Republika Srpska or Montenegro or Kosovo, you should have pointed out how we deal with the problems of immigrants in the Republic of Croatia, problems and protection of human rights and the rights of national minorities in European countries. You could point out this when you were at your colleagues' meetings in the Council of Europe and thus prove that Croatia has come more responsible to these problems than any member of the European Union or those who are at the home of the European Union. And what I especially want to tell you today is that we talk about human rights all the time. I guess every person, every single person, when they have a job, is the most protected. And his human rights are violated and the man becomes weak when he is illegally fired. I will now present to you the latest situation in Požega-Slavon County. This situation in Požega-Slavon County brings me back in January, or February 2001, when in the first few weeks of the coalition authorities, many state officials, ambassadors and general consuls were withdrawn from their respective jobs because they belonged to one party. And so it happens today in Požega-Slavon County, and you have certainly already received a memo about what is going on in the City of Požega and Požega-Slavon County, and you will indicate in your 2006 report that you were familiar with these problems. I think that despite your conditions that you point out that they are not good for you to be able to solve many problems, you can do much more within the legal authority and in the hope that you will visit Požega and Požega County. I'll read a memo I got recently. "The new county headship in Požega-Slavon County resolved the illegal presidents on Wednesday 17 May, appointed by V.D., the officials of the mayor's office have issued transfer solutions to date." All this is not in accordance with the law, and I also state why. The Decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union shall enter into force on 1 January 2006 and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The President shall be dismissed in accordance with the reasons set out in paragraph 2 of Article 53. The law will deploy no other vacancy in the local self-government unit for which it meets the professional requirements. However, such and similar cases in Požega-Slavon County are certainly written only on paper every day, no one solves them. Because every time it comes to power, it's procedure as usual. Especially those whose history is the way it is. And I'm just gonna ask you one more question. It's a very important reason. Sir, can it be, Ronko, both the mayor and the mayor, or will it remain as attributed to the SDP party? I am not just saying this partyly, I point out the problems that you, which you must point to and in all of this must be objective because every man measures his problem towards himself, and does not measure it against those other problems or many people under which the same conditions are under, under which the same conditions are prescribed by law and by the Constitution in the hope that you will not highlight the problems of the group or individuals in the Republic of Croatia for 2006 I will traditionally vote for your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66220	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66221	It is incorrect that the colleague stated that the report by the Ombudsman for the last year was unobstructed, it simply did not follow from the opinion of the government itself, which took note of this substantiated report. It is also the task of the attorney general that he is talking about the violation of each human individual right and that is exactly what the Ombudsman points to, and that is that the state of human rights is the way you would like it to be said, particularly in certain segments, not only here's the Ombudsman but also Emnesty International Croatia, and the other problem is that you cannot classify it, or characterise it as an objectivity because you would not want the public to know about these violations of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66222	This would be more replicas than correction because you're correcting a court of law. The lady thinks it's not objective,... is objective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a replica. Here, which one is it, ma'am, what's the article?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66223	... I said for 2005 and a half items that it is not objective because it is always about the priorities of one, and the priorities of the others are placed on the other point and quoted the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 3. Mrs Equality, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is not the SFRY. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66224	And this is actually, I don't know how the Rules of Procedure got hurt. So let's move on. We have one replica, and that's Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Babić Petričević allow me to answer you, i.e. in a certain way, to refer to your otherwise good debate regarding the human rights situation of a group of people in Croatia. I'd call these people real, I'd call them if others called them superfluous people, superfluous and unnecessary. It is not Croatia, thank God that it is, however, countries whose people are also citizens and from which they came have a relationship with them as they are with extra people. Who's this about? So it is 21 thousand, 21 thousand exiles from the former Yugoslavia, mostly from the current Republic of Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's about pensioners, people who need the most possible protection, and they don't have it. What don't they have? Therefore, their countries in which they have earned their pensions do not pay them pensions that under the law and which they should fulfil under an interstate contract. It is known that coming to Croatia all exiles are taken care of and that it is, and that even a solution and pension issues have been raised for these people until, in a certain way, until 2004. However, the countries from which these people come simply do not make commitments between the state agreement and do not pay the pensions that people have earned in the countries from which they came. Mr. Attorney General, it's a social issue, it's a matter of political, I'd say interstate, but that's also a question of human rights couple of excellence. I think it's time and place for you to get involved and in some way encourage both the media and the international public if you need to go all the way to Strasbourg and protect the human rights of this group of people I'd say about the countries from which really superfluous people came. Croatia is a responsible state, it signed an interstate agreement, but other countries do not, unfortunately, respect the agreement and violate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66226	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Zvonimir Sabati's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66227	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Attorney General with your associates. So thinking a little bit about how and in what way... Your debate seems to me that you should probably have discussed this report on the work of the Public Attorney for 2005 in a different way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, this Report is a set of facts that are ahead of us and the right debate should give an answer whether the Ombudsman has worked well, whether all thematic areas, whether they are covered by all institutions, all groups of people to whom the human rights violations might or might be concerned, and then it would be more likely to lead the debate more easily. The HSS and I personally believe that the Ombudsman has worked well and should then enter the content of the report, but in a completely different way. I think, on the basis of this content, someone else should be sitting here to give answers because a whole series of allegations that are here, which are quoted several times, and even in the debate it is repeatedly said actually saying that this does not apply to the public defender but to those who are not doing their job properly, whether it was a long-term procedure or something like that or some other... there anyway, even though all of this together then we try... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we would say this report as the previous report is similar, but of course there are other characteristics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, I would like to say that the report is well structured, the content is well-handled on every separate subject, but what is understandablely a good part of the report is repeated year after year, namely similar fates or whether it was disproved and helpless by the same people or, unfortunately, others. It continues to be realized that individuals from the institutions from the administration to the judiciary do not do too often quality work for us. Or they're unsupervised, this is where you think about the longevity of the procedure. These people, we all know together, are basically on a state budget that they fill and they're richer and they're poorer, most of the poorer we can say so. And it is this poorer layer of people who expect these officials to do their job well first and serve them. And such a finding and desire make a sad picture after all. One thing is that some recommendations continue to be observed and some recommendations are repeated and there are no concrete actions. Therefore, the occupier appears to those who may know more about it either those who are more persistent or those who are probably the last straw of salvation. And whether the rescue will be found in the Ombudsman's regiment remains questionable. This introduction of mine can also serve to make some of my basic findings. There are a number of complaints in the report that are not in the vacancy of the attorney general. You don't have to be surprised. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect help. What kind of help, in which way, the answer is quite complex. It's not easy to tell an unsupervised and helpless man that it's not in the jurisdiction of the vacancy attorney. The least you can do is listen to him, give him advice and register it as a problem and naturally refer him to the right address. This right address is sometimes hard to find or, at the very least, harder than expected. There's been disappointment. People lose confidence in the functioning of the rule of law. The report also makes it easy to see that human rights are being violated in Croatia and that it has been good for which officials or administrative bodies or individuals from administrative bodies or bodies with public authority have served. This is also the case this year, and it is justified that we MPs ask why, why we draw conclusions in the Croatian Parliament that no one implements. As a result, it would be instructed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a completely different way to show about the report by the Ombudsman. It would be good for a comparative analysis to be carried out in the Government and, in parallel with the report, to deliver us to the assembly benches from which the work of which the bodies or individuals appear to be real and proven guilty and to see whether certain responsibility for the work of these individuals is being initiated. Each of us MPs, perhaps we are slightly less important than ordinary people because ordinary people tend to suffer injustices. So each of us can do a lot of pulling out the grapes from the cake and talking about individual cases from any area. The report is a lot of such examples, and based on them we may come to the right and who knows maybe the wrong conclusion that exceptions make up the rule. Would it perhaps be wiser to see where the least of their efforts are achieved, or we could achieve the greatest effects? It may be more significant to speed up a number of procedures and thus reduce the length of the procedure. People would be more pleased, we shouldn't wait long. It seems to me that many years of public administration stories should finally become a reality. In particular, a project to inform the public administration, the judiciary and a series of other institutions could be put under control by at least the execution of the deadlines or the settlement of the case. And if I don't move on, the user himself might have an insight into the state of his case in which the processing phase is located. Although this is of course not the subject of this agenda point, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the partial information procedures. Furthermore, what is the need for intervention of the attorney general? The report shows, I quote, that recent complaints indicate infringements in the handling of the competent authorities for which the Ombudsman communicated with the competent authorities in earlier identical cases, pointed to irregularities most frequently in the application of material regulations and after which these cases were resolved in a legitimate manner. Why did she even need an intervention of the attorney general? Since I am running out of time, I will present an example from that part of Croatia, north-west Croatia, of its Varazdin County, we can say even Krapina-Zagorska, there are such cases throughout Croatia. In fact, we're all testifying that we're paying a fee to monitor the HTV program. However, not all people have the opportunity to watch the TV programme, especially Croatian television or other national houses. However, they get an office bill every month to pay that fee. For example, the municipality... There is a village in Jarki, Gradisce, I know there was a similar case in Međimurje Bukovec, not to mention in Krapina-Zagorje County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, what's going on? These people get warnings, court proceedings are conducted and Croatian television, or our legislation, is such that they simply cannot find the answer to this violation of human rights. People would pay, they want to pay but of course they want me to say so to get the goods and the goods are a television program. Well, of course, what kind of righteousness it is when little people are trained in hardness and prove that we are a legal state. Why is this not applied and does not prove to a number of tycoon, meshetar, capable businessmen who have become suspiciously "rich" in privatisation, conflicts of potential interest and now do not pay, it is possible that we have such cases, taxes, communal and similar fees. I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66228	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66229	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm so pleased that my colleague mentioned a tv tax. Because there's a huge problem in Croatia right now, and that's that the incasators are going through schools, basic, regional, middle and performing a list of TV receivers by classrooms all in the sense of the introduction of the hacks. So that means that the schools that are lurking in huge problems anyway, they don't have financial resources and these TV receivers are essentially teaching aids to them. They don't need TV receivers to watch Croatian TV, but it helped them, and then, let's say I have data for certain counties and the next variant will happen. Then they send them a warning, but you know who sends the warning? He sends a law firm "Hanžekovic-Radakovic" that takes a million kunas at least annually. Then they don't pay because they don't have the money. Afterwards, the company goes with the tip and they earn neither the fault nor the burden of taxpayers over 3 million kunas per year. And I can do that on my own. So this is a huge problem, and that is why we here have to react that schools only pay for one TV subscription because everything else serves them as a teaching aid. So will he go to the hospitals and watch the monitors? So, where they see an EKG monitor or something, they're going to count it as TV. That's right, I'm so glad you brought this up. That's a huge problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66230	Mr. Sabati's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I understand the desire to complete the exposure even though I wasn't talking about schools. I know about this case, and it's more than just that it wouldn't be funny, it's tragic what's going on. We can say the law is also missing. We brought it here to the Croatian Parliament. We didn't take care of those people. These people can't right now, but there's no transmission. They can't keep an eye on us. But maybe it's the public who needs to be more serious about it. I know that we have it, and even in Međimurje I have information in local media, a lot has been written about it, but no one alive has taken a single serious step.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66232	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General. Dear fellow Sabati. Your request for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider more seriously the report by the Advocate General is a request to the Parliament, I suppose. Not the government. The Attorney General is responsible to the Parliament. He is independent of the government and is commissioner of the Parliament. So if this is your intention to conclude that it is the Croatian Parliament to order the Government to analyse the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia because I am a public defender and argues that this is not an overall review of the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. So it could be even worse. That doesn't mean there's no moving forward. But it can be even worse, so in that sense I support you. So the government is responsible to the Parliament and we should conclude that the government is reporting to us what is the state of human rights in the field of its office or its view of achieving the relationship between citizens and authorities? That's what I assure you is an even worse situation than how he's been reviewing the attorney general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66234	... Mr. Representative Sabati. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66235	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I, Mr. Vice President, said very Decidently that we here if we want to discuss the report then we're discussing the work of the attorney general. I repeat, he was doing a good job. But everything that's written in here remains an empty letter on paper if we don't see any concrete shifts. That's why I said it would be good for this Croatian Parliament to also conclude that the following year, when a report of the Ombudsman is to be discussed, someone from the government is to say: that is what we have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66236	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66237	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a report from the attorney general. That and this year, we need to show a cut of our society according to all those complaints that he received and that intersection based on what the gentleman's attorney general has done shows that the situation in our society is pretty bad. According to those complaints he received, I would single out two of his recommendations in any case, in fact two of his views on social security and legal security. I'd start with social security first because I think that social security is both directly related and with legal certainty because it's obvious that legal certainty depends on whether you have political influence? Do you have any capital? Can you finance your legal protection or not? And for this reason, I would start with social security and from a finding that, as the public defender says, is generally accepted, which is that most of the evil and actually the decomposition of Croatian society starts with conversion and privatisation. That's when one caste of the rich was created in our society at the expense of the rest of the state. This means the robbery has reached certain abnormal financial, material and other treasures and all at the expense of Croatian citizens and has led to a minimum of millions of poor people in our society. Because if we take a look at the statistics and look at how many employees receive a salary of less than two thousand two hundred kunas, there are 128 thousand. If we look at how many pensioners are less than two thousand kunas. There are 639 thousand of them. If we look at that we have 311 thousand unemployed and we count at least half of those who are really unemployed, so they're not working on black and they don't have any other income, that's another 155,000. And to the whole number, when we add 21 thousand more of those who made their pensions in the republics, in the former republics, now the countries of Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia are 21 thousand, we reach the figure of a million poor. You, these millions of poor citizens are both legally and socially endangered. How do you help them? Is it based on what the attorney general advises, recommends or warns us whether we are going to do something about it? We've almost never done anything before. And this is seen from the government's obvious statement to the last report, to the government's obvious statement on this report where there's absolutely no will to react somehow and to change that state. All citizens, all of these poor citizens, or the best or most of them, would be happy to draw a line on conversion and privatisation once, and to say gentlemen well, we ended this story either we'll somehow tax them or we'll somehow take away some of that property they illegally acquired. But citizens expect to draw a line and say from now on we won't. Do we have the strength, whether the government is going to launch some initiatives to end up with conversion and privatisation and to launch these funds that can still be drawn out of these tycoons, whether it's going to go into some kind of development that these millions of people would, if nothing else, start to think about a better future and hope that someday they'll fall into some middle layer, that they won't be poor anymore, and that's what I repeat a million in our society. As far as legal certainty is concerned, it is a wonderful warning that our judiciary under the pretext of judicial independence works very well on the principle of lobby, politics, capital because we all know that these tycoons are no longer in any party, because they do not need parties. None of them need any more of them. They are strong enough to buy whoever they want and this is also shown in the National Anti-Corruption Programme, and it says there that they have outgrown all the structures of this country and that they have crawled into all the structures of this country. Are we going to put an end to it? According to that anti-corruption programme, we won't because we haven't even installed a police attorney in that program. Because the government sees him as a necessary evil. It's all countries of the world, Europe, developed countries, so come on, we'll have it, too. Let's have him fulfill his form, and that's why we gave him that kind of power. Its options are to advise, to give recommendations, to give warnings, and we haven't given him enough money yet and we expect him to start something in society, and we don't see him anywhere in the future except for these three things – advice, recommendations and warnings. We give him the authority to do something based on what he finds, then his warnings to the State's Attorney's Office that should be reacted to when the rights of employees are violated to do something about it. We've been looking at the State's Attorney's Office report here and we've seen in that report not one single procedure under Article 114 of the Law has been initiated. The penal code, which states: “Whoever deprives or restricts a citizen of the right to work, freedom of work, free choice of calling or employment, available job and duty to any under equal terms of the right to earning, the law of a given working time and rest, the rights of health and pension disability insurance, the right to special protection of certain groups of workers, the rights of unemployment, birth rights, motherhood and other labour rights established by law, judicial decision, or collective contract, will be fined by fines or fines until one year. Not a word of this in the State's Attorney's Office's report. No single criminal proceedings have been filed. Why? Why hasn't the State's Attorney's Office sanctioned anyone in this article. Because it's about those who are the poorest, at least make money or are unemployed. Then the State's Attorney's office doesn't take care of them. And all the warnings the attorney general gives fall into the sand and no use at all. So gentlemen, let's draw conclusions after this report and commit ourselves to these conclusions and spend them without being a dead letter on paper like it was last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66238	We have replicas. First is Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66239	Thank you, Mr. President. You tell your colleague Kapraljevic that from the report of the Ombudsman, it is evident that the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia is bad. This is true, however, in some, and not only in some, but in many segments of human rights, the situation has deteriorated. Perhaps the paradigm is exactly the state of human rights in prisons, i.e. A threat to the collapse of the prison system. The Ombudsman says that the situation in prisons is below human dignity, and I will only read to you what the situation was in early 2004, not what I say, but what the media published on the basis of the report and the assessment of the International Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, and the OSCE, and showed that the Croatian prison system is at the European summit. Croatia has a model and authentic training programme for prison workers and many transition countries copy the system. That's what you've done in just two years of your work, that's what you're not doing. Because of such an alarming situation in the prison system, here I have personally suggested and I think it is necessary, because there are already conclusions of the Justice Committee that it is precisely the basis of a special booth that the Ombudsman has worked to express his very own obvious, i.e. to present to the Croatian public the situation in the prison system and the achievement of human rights in prisons to hold a special thematic session in order for the Parliament to take concrete steps and ultimately strengthen the already existing conclusions that have remained clearly dead on paper, because since last year, since when these conclusions have been dated, what the government should do in the prison system here to this day, not only has nothing happened, but precisely because the situation has not been done again dramatically worsened.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66240	Answer, Mr. Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague with everything you've stated. Anyway, it's exactly what you said about the prison system. But I didn't go to that part. It's true, it's all in the report. However, I went to legal or social security and cast that emphasis, put emphasis on it, and went towards a million people who are at the poverty line. In fact, when they look at each other, they're poor, and I'm talking about those who are the most disfigured. And they're disfigured just because they're either out of a job, or they're so small that they can't just get into the system because they don't have first money, second of all no political influence, and third of all, their life is like that they don't have the will to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66242	... Mr. Joseph Leco. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General, the esteemed colleague Kapraljevic. In your list of violations of human rights on the report of the Ombudsman, it seems to me that you have dropped one, one new form for us in the House of Representatives, extremely important. It is done, and the Ombudsman points out in Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on guaranteed healthcare. Please, the attorney general says that even health care is disabled in Croatia, and he emphasizes respected colleagues and colleagues, poorer citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Such a qualification cannot go unnoticed in a country that has declared itself a social state that its Parliament, a representative body, does not consider it a dramatic situation. So, I propose that the Parliament conclude that within a month, the Government will inform us of the state of health care in the Republic of Croatia, especially with an emphasis on the poorer citizens and those travelling to the doctor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66244	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's right, colleague Leko. And this is all you said that the poor are the most deprived of health care. But I wasn't talking about that part. Thank you for saying that. But I didn't talk about that part because I expect we'll have a chance to say about it soon when the government comes back with that health reform that we're about to have the opportunity to say everything we think about. Well, by the way, before the hospitals go bankrupt, I hope we can do something to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66246	Thank you. And a replica, Mr. Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66247	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to replicate in the section that the Attorney General basically serves us just as a ficus if he didn't have any authority. In this part, I would suggest, or supplement my colleague, that the Ombudsman should have the authority to discipline measures and penalties against those officers who do not do their job, and not just stand in the way of us getting an annual report and doing nothing about it. Also, to gain the opportunity to suggest criminal and criminal prosecution of those people and those officers who do not carry out their duties and lead people and our citizens to the edge of poverty, especially on the poor and the most force and training. It's because they don't have political ties or anything. As Parliamentarians, we have citizens’ questions on a daily basis. When citizens simply don't know where to turn anymore, the MPs and the occupier turn to each other. I think that in this part of it, we need to launch this debate so that the attorney general should have the authority to propose disciplinary, criminal and criminal prosecution of officials who do not carry out their duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66248	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kurtov, I've said that the government sees the attorney general as a necessary evil. And that's practically the same thing you said this was a ficus. However, I, too, have suggested that we commit to the government and commit ourselves to making those conclusions that we will draw on this report that we give power to the attorney general that, if anything else, he can make an application to the internal control body. I especially think about the judiciary, the question of those judges who don't do their job the way they're supposed to do it. And I don't call it any intrusion and independence of the judiciary, but someone should be controlling them in any way. And it is possible that it would be very ideal to allow them to work both disciplinary and criminal and criminal charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66250	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. So I have to admit, this report still leaves traces of bitterness for all of us. Because every year, when we have a report from the attorney general's office, it turns out that we have a shoulder to cry on to complain to each other. And nothing concrete, or we, and the government is doing nothing to remove such problems. First of all, I am referring to the legal powers of the attorney general and I agree with all my colleagues who are saying that these powers should be strengthened. Especially to state bodies that don't do their jobs most often. The second thing is that there is a great responsibility over us in the Croatian Parliament. When we adopted the 2006 budget last year, we were those in our discussions, and even in the amendments, we advocated that the Office of the Attorney General should receive more funds than was eventually voted upon. Unfortunately, we have not come across the approval of the parliamentary majority, and it seems to me that Croatia as a law and constitution is a guaranteed social state, defeating that foreign governments finance or will finance the work of the Office of the Public Attorney. I think that his appeals for going to the field mean at least in the county headquarters especially where problems arise must seek money from foreign governments, serve neither the Croatian government nor us as representatives or as representatives of the people and the Parliament who brings the state budget. I could ask myself, but even more to the majority of the council, which were really the reasons why the humble budget of the Office of the Police Attorney did not increase, improved that they had at least the most basic and normal activities of more money, especially when we boast that our revenues from the state budget and tax revenues seem to be about 15% higher than they were in the same period last year. A part of the responsibility certainly lies with both the government and us in the adoption of laws themselves. It seems to me that we often pass laws or parliamental majority to be more precisely passed laws that do not go to the expense of most citizens of this country, rather than to the sick most often, most often to the poor. Here's a few examples for that. It's already been said here to be entitled to health care. So Croatia as a Constitution of the social state where everyone has the right to basic health care is unfortunately not often consumed. I'll give a few examples. One example is that the government, along with most in the Parliament last year, has passed a provision amending the Health Insurance Act that all those attending therapy, must pay or make up for more than a hundred kilometers from the place of residence for treatment. We have a big problem with disabled children. For those who have suffered from cerebral or multiple sclerosis, which, for example, in Varazdin and Međimurje County, wherever you pull a dot, you have to go for a few dozen or times to the Varazdin spas, these are daily migrations. If you look from Varazdinska or from Međimurje County and they go to Varazdinske spa there is no point that is over 100 kilometers away. It turns out that those who are most needed are disabled and children. Their parents often have a bad material condition because they have to take care of these children or those with disabilities all day long. One of the parents doesn't usually work, it's an additional inconvenience. They're not getting paid for anything. The rest is the burden of the county. Here is the County of Međimurje, in its budget, has made such a provision to pay or try to help such parents. The SDP Council Club in the County Assembly in Varazdin County is going with such an initiative to do the same. But that's the problem. An obvious problem that shows social insensitivity in this country. The right to treat such children is compromised. It is also a threat to the right to educate such children because it is again related to enormous costs that such children come to elementary school and few graduates from high school. There's an even bigger problem with the disabled. Such people with disabilities who are over 18 years old. Because they're no longer cared for in this country. Now we can ask ourselves what kind of person these human rights have? They're obviously threatened to the end. And they're threatened by just passing laws in this high house. Most who have passed such laws. Not the minority who was against it. The other thing is about the availability of health care. These days there's a lot of talk about our hospitals being some of the above, some of them being blocked, and the fact is that we made the Constitution that everyone has the right to basic health insurance. It means basic health. Let's call it that. We're entering health reform. Let's remember, last year a famous decision was made on 30 kuna participation. I'd call it a tax on disease where the poorest often don't even have those 30 kunas to get to their doctor. It's being saved in one side of medicine hospitals. It is being saved on a diet because by one move of feathers and signing collective agreements, the government has raised the payers, which is nothing controversial, quite certain that they should be paid, however, it is not in a proper way, behold, miracles, and that those restrictions on hospitals especially in the province are greater. Hospitals are at a loss, and then what do we do? If not all of them have the same right to equal quality health care, the city of Zagreb, which has higher fiscal incomes and everything, it will certainly be easier to resolve than one Varazdin County that has an average salary of 20, 30% lower as well as in the rest of Croatia. A particular problem I'd like to point out is the Penal Code here. I hope we will soon implement and bring amendments and additions to the Penal Code. It is re-emerged from the Penal Code that "criminal" is a crime of non-payment of salaries. I guarantee you that according to the Attorney General's Office, there will be a large number of people who will be able to afford a trip to him at all. Who won't get paid regularly and won't have anyone to complain to. And legally, it won't be sanctioned again. We've got business hours. That's a lot to talk about. And there's a problem that the state administration isn't doing its part of the job. Come on, it's worth what happened in Osijek that they shut down this company for 30 days. But who's going to get hurt the most again? The poorest ones, the ones who work there, are going to get hurt again. I'm sure he won't get paid for that time. However, we can ask the question of who is defending the state administration from the State Inspectorate and, according to the judiciary, to do their part of the job. To protect those people. We have passed the law and it is not the law's problem but obviously the problem of its implementation that is not done properly. The problem is, for example, and here it is, these days there is a lot of talk that a famous rule has been passed inside the police, where, for example, those who are possibly infected with HIV are not able to be hired or threatened in this way. ... the question and that Regulation define that a policeman may also be fired because, in the context of his work, he faced certain dangers, he was infected with HIV. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It shows that, on the one hand, we, as Parliamentarians, on the other, are simply not thinking enough about human rights on the other hand, and most often those broad layers of citizens of this country. And just one more special thing, union organization. Unfortunately, we still have the resistance of employers to the establishment of trade unions and trade unions for employees in their companies. It seems to me that it is also insufficient to talk about it, and it is constantly insisting that unions should get up first to protect their rights. I ask myself and you how will they do it unless there's a organized union in certain companies? I note, and the freedom of union organisation is guaranteed by the Constitution, only a question, and that is also what the citizens of this country are complaining to the attorney general about why the right to do so is not respected and what sanctions are imposed on those who do not. In the end, I support the work of the attorney general. It should be extended to one side of the mandate, that it has the possibility to propose to the State Attorney's Office, and, if it is necessary to sue those who do not do their own work, from the silence of bureaucracy to the failure of their work assignments, trade union organisations, etc. But to keep our concerns and not to leave a dead letter on paper when it is brought or budgeted for next year, and to believe and amend the budget for this year that we will lead all together, not only the parliamentary opposition but above all, the parliamentary majority to allow him and his office normal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66252	Thank you very much. This concludes an individual debate. Now we have a five-minute debate on behalf of the clubs. Mr. Dragutin Lesar is first on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66253	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club will accept, vote for the adoption of this report, but we remain at the request that the government be shown in the implementation of the adopted recommendations in the 2004 report, which after the adoption of the report, is no longer the recommendations of the Ombudsman, but also of the Croatian Parliament. Because by overcoming the fact that the Government refused to show itself about the implementation of the recommendations, that the Government refused to demonstrate the reasons for not providing financial resources according to the plan adopted by the Croatian Parliament we remain responsible for the behaviour of both those state bodies and institutions that did not respond to the Ombudsman, which did not show up to his demands and recommendations. We remain responsible for the situation to tolerate the government being silent, refusing to manifest itself, and it will rightly declare us nomies. We push our heads into the sand, we satisfy the form of debates and reports, and we do nothing after that. The Attorney General is our authority officer. He stands at the disposal of the citizens of this country on our behalf. We gave him the authority to report to us, to propose and to warn us of situations that are not good in this country. It is obvious that such constraint powers as the attorney general are not enough to give confidence to citizens to protect them through that institution, not only warned their right, but carefully following the debate last week and today when most clubs were manifested and representatives, that existing powers are not sufficient. Unfortunately, some have also spoken of this in a farcided manner. Respecting the fact that as many as 2 parliamentary committees have been refusing to place on the agenda for months now a request from the Ombudsman to consider extending power in the law. The Croatian People's Party Club will propose, as soon as possible, amendments and additions to the law in this regard, to give the occupancy of judicial oversight over the proceedings due to an increasing number of lengthy court proceedings. We will propose the extension of its powers, the submission of criminal applications and the application of acts of internal supervision in terms of the request to initiate the procedure. If we want the institution of the Ombudsman not to be the citizens of the shoulder to cry, but the institution of encouragement and the return of the denied rights, and on the basis of the debate on Friday and today I believe that this bill will only be adopted unanimously in one article or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66254	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66255	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will also support, accept this report by the Ombudsman, and we must indeed say that the Ombudsman is indeed a very important institution, and that is our authority or, as I would say, the extended hand of this Parliament in terms of the protection of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and the freedom of our citizens in the protection of these rights against state bodies. This report, as colleagues have said traditionally well, traditionally and every year, is really very correct and it is in some way a set or a collection and individual complaints of our citizens about the difficulties they have in achieving their rights to state bodies. On the other hand, however, it also points to certain systemic problems, certain problems that arise in the work of the state authorities, in the work of the state administration. However, we cannot treat the report as a report on the state of our entire administration, the state of our entire system, because the administration is like the circulation of a state. In fact, it is countless ways that our citizens go to realize their rights and interests from the very fact that the child is born, from the very requirement to issue when the house is built, building permits, from all other status rights that people exercise in front of state bodies, and indeed it is a large, large system, and in order to have a complete picture of the functioning of that system, we should also have a picture of how far in front of individual ministries, in front of certain county offices we have applied for resolution, how many have been successfully solved, how many have been solved within the time period, how many of the complaints at the second stage would only then have one complete picture of how this administration system works for us. These are extreme examples where citizens appear with a complaint that their actions are long-lasting, difficult to exercise their individual rights, and there is a public defender as our public defender who appears and who is trying to help, who is seeking information, who is giving advice. We as the Croatian Democratic Community Club also have no objection to the discussion of powers whether they need to be stepped up, whether they need to be increased for the occupier. This about management, we think that these powers are standard and common to the powers that exist in other countries. And as far as these judicial powers are concerned, I must say, we also said that we are not against such powers. However, this cannot be resolved only by amending the law. It also requires a change of our Constitution. So you need to see if you're learning in such a procedure just for that reason or if you need to see one moment when there's something else that might come together. And we are extremely sorry, in fact, because the Constitution changed even twice a few years ago, that these recent changes did not actually include these changes that would give the Ombudsman more power than the judiciary. Because the judiciary was still burdened with problems, even bigger than today. We also advocate as a Croatian Democratic Community club, and we will ask the government again to increase the resources for as successful work as possible and for the better conditions of work of our public defender. Last year, the budget rose from 3.5 million kuna to 4.5. You stated in the report that it was enough for two or three new employees. It's not something, but it's a small step, and it's a small shift. And if we secure something more in next year, it'll all be together. What I have to say is that we'd disagree and we think it's a little too harsh that's about the judiciary that's actually based on one assessment that '93. In fact, they are incompetent, that judges are capable, determined and well-replaced, replaced politically similar. We don't think that's a good picture. Today, in 2006, and in the year when we have brought a lot of good measures to the judiciary in the last two years, and this trend continues. So it wouldn't be good to be back in '93. A year and I don't think that's the main reason. In the end, I repeat, we positively assess the prosecutor's report. We ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all state authorities to take all necessary steps to address these observed, although individual cases, which are presented very well in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66256	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, Ms. Representative Ruza Tomasic, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. This report by the attorney general shows, which we are actually accepting, that the Ombudsman is trying to do his job, but unfortunately there is little help or hearing from institutions that are responsible for certain cases. This is where we look at when the occupier speaks to these institutions, in order to explain, to warn or to make a proposal, they do not behave or respond, even after three hastens, they do not respond. So without extending jurisdiction and authority to the vacancy attorney, there's nothing out of this. We'll get back to the statistics next year. And I hope that the attorney general himself today will propose amendments to the law or any way in which this House and so that we can help him do his job better. Otherwise, he will remain as some kind of psychologist or psychiatrist to whom people speak, and he can only pat them on the shoulder and say it will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66258	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here's after a two-day debate on the report, it seems like all the clubs and all the MPs supported it. This means that we agree with the evaluation of the Ombudsman's staff to violate human rights in Croatia, to be violated by the authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority. The Croatian Peasant Party's club and the report and the finding that the practice of major unwarranted shifts so far after any change of power which unfortunately administrative and judicial practices, has not been prevented by constitutional and judicial practice, has in some cases devastated the professionalism, continuity and continuity that has an impact on the legal security of citizens. We believe that the criteria for setting up civil servants must be professionality and continuity, not political similarity and personal loyalty. That was the reason for the proposal for conclusions we proposed to this House. And we propose to accept all proposals from the Ombudsman to improve the existing situation, especially those that point to the need to appoint civil servants according to the criteria of expertise and continuity. Only then will we get a professional and professional administration that will make an impartial decision on citizens' rights. At that time, it will not happen that in the same matters it decides differently, depending on the applicant. It is a fundamental postulate that all citizens are equal before the law, regardless of their political commitment, national and religious membership, gender and race. We also accept the views of the Ombudsman, based on complaints from citizens about some of the court's behaviours that should be a pillar of the rule of law. We are in favour of establishing systematic supervision and evaluation of the work of judges within the justice system itself, until the removal from the system of those judges who, by work or by the quality of the judgments, cannot meet the necessary standards of good trial. In order to restore citizens' trust in the judicial authority, in order to protect the majority of judges who conduct an honorable and independent duty of justice-makers from the system, it is necessary to remove those judges who are under political influence, or the influences of informal groups and groups of individuals, and according to the report that the check belongs to a criminal mile. We propose to commit itself to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on a proposal for a solution to improve the existing situation contained in the report, to draw up a plan and programme of action measures necessary for the implementation of the proposals adopted, and to report to this Parliament. Just accepting reports without these conclusions has only been noted that human rights are being violated, but we do not want to prevent that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66260	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed occupier with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club accepts a report by the attorney general for 2005 and estimates that it is comprehensive, that it is objective, that it is very exhaustive. Maybe as never before, even though we've always had very high-quality reports from the attorney general. Probably just the fact that some of the funds were more approved last year, and then the occupier with his associates could then go around the field and be directly convinced, i.e. directly in contact with the citizens and be available to the citizens in such a way. However, we can note that it is saddened by the fact that from certain ministries in the government itself, specifically from the Ministry of Justice that it is the fact that the Ombudsman was on the ground, that he was available to the citizens and those who are addressing him for help, it is estimated as one lack, because there is the Ombudsman who gained his conviction on the basis of this direct condition, and not written reports. That's something that here doesn't even stand for sound logic, so here at the SDP club, we draw attention to the fact that the attorney general must not hesitate on the basis of such an assessment of the individual ministry in the government itself, but rather that this is the right way to work, and that is the end and the task of the attorney general, to be a spokeswoman and advocate and defender of each individual's rights to his own address. Almost all clubs supported a report by the attorney general and agreed to those requests, with proposals that were directly or indirectly put forward by the attorney general himself so that it could be as effective as possible. However, here we are discussing here in the Croatian Parliament, if we are not the staff, or if most, and we see that individual and opposition clubs are proposing certain conclusions, if we refuse these conclusions, or if we do not listen to what the Ombudsman is saying and is proposing, then this means that once a year we will suffer all this one criticism, but that we do not care at all about improving the state of human rights by doing so and political freedoms and generally political situations in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the situation that the Ombudsman is referring to, that is, from his report, to such an already alarming situation. And that is why it takes not only the means to team up, as in its report, and proposes, the Ombudsman, but also certain amendments to the law, so that at least those who are obliged to resolve certain issues of citizens, or to serve them, are in some way mandatory and not only depends on their goodwill, whether they will respond to a complaint from citizens, or a public defender, who is speaking on behalf of them and in order to protect those citizens. And here this is just a two-day debate that was more or less quality, but that didn't get concrete results, and then this debate doesn't make any sense at all. It may make sense as many as some have said that the attorney general doesn't have any rights. That's not true. He's right. It is also spoken of in these reports and in the public, and that is something, but surely we are the most responsible here in how much rights we truly will be and how much we want to make the attorney general effective. It has absolutely fulfilled all legal and constitutional assumptions within its powers and capabilities. And maybe just one more line. If, then, we are not going to grant more financial resources and amend certain laws, then the attorney general and specifically his deputy, who asked the prison manager not to freeze, has already shown how it is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66262	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the HSLS club, Ms. Representative and Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The HSLS Club will support the Ombudsman's report even though I have the impression that support by the Ombudsman will be obtained from all the representation clubs which I must say proved to be a practice and more than a dozen years and that very rarely there have been exceptions in the debates, because we probably support his fight for human rights. However, we believe that his options are still too low if the report, demands and proposals of the measures are deafened by the government, if the ministries are deaf and very often local self-government. Then, ten years ago, I compared his work once, the work of a public defender with a confessor who people come to complain about, he carefully listened to them, sent letters, and if the executive authority doesn't react then it was all actually a job that didn't give results. And what could be expected of the Parliament precisely because of the possible silence of the government from local to state, that the Parliament be a true partner to the vacancy attorney or his extended arm. And it is indeed necessary to consider the possibility of amending certain laws, but also, above all, sanctions for non-execution of measures because the sanctions appear to be a speech that every authority understands best. The debate on possible increased powers in the judiciary seems to me to be at a good level so far and I don't think it is particularly useful to compare us with some other countries, with a country with a longer democratic tradition because the frauds that happen in our country are often far more imaginative than those who have countries with a longer tradition. So it will be so hard to imagine in one of such European countries building houses without permission, it will also be difficult to imagine the non-payment of workers or the non-payment of goods to be delivered. These are almost our specificities, and so these comparisons really need to make sure that our laws have to be precise, they have to be clear and they have certain functions, and then we're going to get back to the problems in the judiciary as well as what has been going on here the whole time. I actually want to express my satisfaction that you specifically drew attention and gave criticism to the judiciary. For more than a dozen years, the situation in the judiciary has been more or less silent because it would mean meddling in the judicial system and it was almost not allowed to express more serious criticism, and in fact we all know we have seen research, that when it comes to the area of justice, we have doubts about corruption and that citizens are people who do not believe in the institution of the judiciary, so it might be good to prepare a thematic debate on the situation in the judiciary with certain measures where we can hear what the new minister has prepared as new possible measures. This is how the law changes are already mentioned as necessary. Then we're talking about maybe they'll need to change the Constitution. So why not? Why not change the Constitution for the protection of human rights? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66264	Thank you very much. And consideration, final consideration of the gentleman of the occupier's staff. Jurica Malcic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the end of this, truly extensive debate involving almost all clubs, parliamentary committees and many MPs, I would first of all like to express my satisfaction with the attention and interest that raised the questions and assessments contained in the Report. I would also like to thank everyone who has contributed to the debate, either to remarks and critical assessments, or to the expressions of support or to the presentation of proposals and recommendations. The submission of the annual report is the legal obligation of the Advocate General as a parliamentary authority, but also the possibility and opportunity to present to the Court of Representatives and the public the views and assessments that have been reached by the Ombudsman in the course of his basic duties. As well as the opportunity in which the Assembly and MPs assess the situation and the work of the institution can, using their constitutional powers, take the measures they consider necessary at that time. Although the Ombudsman is operationally and functionally independent and acts independently in individual cases, not receiving orders or instructions from anyone, it does not reduce his general responsibility to the Parliament on whose behalf protects citizens in the process against state bodies and conveys primarily between citizens and state and local administrations. In this respect, the debate was also useful for the future work and conduct of the ombudsman. Opinions and assessments in relation to management, particularly the attitude of citizens and administrations, have been accepted and supported almost entirely. The point of these assessments is that the reform strategy and the legislative changes that are needed are not enough to change the situation, but often delay the improvement of the situation in some future. It is important to improve within a system that can be implemented quickly and efficiently. To begin with, even in some things, it would be enough just to respect existing regulations. Although there is a shift in this respect, the need for the proposed measures to be implemented immediately and without delay remains. They, as far as I understand from the debate, were supported. In the assessment of the judiciary, attitudes were not as unique, not so much in the assessment of the situation as in its causes. The long-term length of court proceedings remains a major problem and there is no doubt in anyone's assessment that the functioning of the judiciary needs to be significantly improved. The report estimated that it is also necessary to improve the judiciary to this end by setting the necessary standards of quality trial which, as well as other activities and professions, will take place through the monitoring and evaluation of the work of judges and the elimination from the system of those who cannot meet those standards. For various assessments of the appointment of judges by the first State Judicial Council after the adoption of the new Law on Courts, I want to make it clear that the cause of the poor situation in the judiciary is, of course, not even the problem in the renaming of judges in 93. This appointment was necessary because we all know that before that, by 90, a large number of judges were also appointed under political criteria and the renaming of judges was then one step after the new constitution. Therefore, that is not the cause. The only reason is that in some cases this renaming was carried out. So the only purpose of such an assessment was to realistically assess the situation and accept the fact that some judges who could hardly meet those criteria entered the Constitution. Although few of them unfortunately create a familiar dark picture of the judiciary. The fate system must therefore be organised within itself, therefore, primarily through the judicial administration, the State Judiciary Council and the Association of Judges and take care of the human rights improvement of the judiciary because if it does not do so only within its system, it will strengthen the pressures on the side which may have negative consequences. As a fourth, most citizens assess the state's environment and efficiency through procedures leading to courts and state administration. The long-term duration of these procedures, with the known fact that some are faster to come to a verdict or a solution, is a big and sometimes too big a problem for citizens, but at the same time a suitable ground for all types of corruption, from friendly services to classical bribes. It is not just a phrase that in such a situation the shorter end is drawn by weak and poor while power and money always find their way through the mazes of judicial and administrative proceedings. Therefore, there is no excuse for not introducing the basic forms of control of the work and conduct of officials immediately and systematically and without exceptional, as if both the relationship between the administration and the citizens was made clearer and more transparent. In this respect, the proposed measures in the Report are also. In the end, it's all about the attorney general's institution. The occupier has enough powers compared to most ombutsmans, it is similar to the institution in so-called ombutsman. old democracies. Invoking higher powers in terms of mandatory orders or instructions is somewhat contrary to being the institution itself. The Attorney General may not be a substitute for the functioning of the system. I'll only give you one example. It's not like we don't have the authority to initiate disciplinary proceedings, both criminal and criminal. We have this authority, we do it, but we can't run those procedures. That means we have to go on a regular basis, it means through ministers, other heads of state. And therefore, it is the way in which that role of the attorney general is realized. Therefore, mandatory orders or instructions should not be called upon because the Ombudsman cannot be converted into another instance of formal proceedings. Its advantage is precisely to intervene informally and flexiblely between citizens and administrations and to enable them in justified cases to avoid long-term and expensive proceedings. Proposals, warnings and recommendations are nevertheless respected in a small number of cases. The second is the issue of a system that requires greater engagement in the adoption, and in particular the control of the enforcement of regulations, which is, of course, business and government, and so does the Parliament. As far as the authority and influence of the Ombudsman is concerned, he depends largely on the professional and moral strength of his activities, including the public. And that authority must earn itself, but it also depends on support, but not only the verbal, Croatian Parliament. Although I don't think the support of the Parliament has yet been only verbal, I'm sure there's room and its improvement. The occupier is the only such institution for the protection of human rights provided for by the Constitution and already in 1990. So, before all the war events of the First Constitution. Meanwhile, a large number of bodies with similar tasks have been established and operate, including the necessary institutions. Two specialized attorneys. However, some of these bodies, so the board of Human Rights Councils will find their role in the future, and some will, as a transition and stop. Therefore, the institution of the Ombudsman as a constitutional institution of the Croatian Parliament needs to be strengthened in order for it to play the role and importance in the European Croatia as well, as it does in other European countries. My proposal to strengthen institutions by 2008 was on the trail, and last year the Parliament accepted it entirely. The fact that the plan is not achieved in 2006 because of the restrictions in the budget does not mean that I do not consider it giving up on it. In this context, I will seek special support from the Parliament through the parliamentary committees. And in the end, I thank everyone again on behalf of the deputies and my associates for the debate and the support we have experienced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66266	Thank you very much to the Attorney General. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-26-0.u66267	We're going to vote on the debated, part of the debated points. First, a report on the work of the 2005 Ombudsman. I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the work of the Advocate General for 2005 is adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 89 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion. Secondly, in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: the opinions, observations and proposals presented in the debate on the report, as well as the observations, proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 90 votes for a unanimously adopted proposed conclusion. We also have a third proposal for a conclusion. This is a proposal from the HSS Representatives Club, which reads: Under 1. Proposals by the Advocate General to improve the existing situation are accepted, and in particular those that point to the need to appoint civil servants according to the criteria of expertise and continuity rather than political similarities and personal loyalty. The establishment of systematic supervision and evaluations of the work of judges within the judicial system itself until the removal and system of judges who, by work or by quality of judgment, cannot meet the necessary standards of trial. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to draw up a plan and programme of measures and activities necessary for the implementation of the accepted proposals and to report to the Croatian Parliament no later than 31 October 2006 on the basis of a proposal to resolve and improve the existing, existing situation contained in the report. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? Twenty-two for it. Four abstentions. 60 against. He didn't get the necessary majority.
