ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58692	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. By the end of 1999, the Republic of Croatia and neighbouring countries, Hungary, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, regulated issues of water economic relations on waterways that form the state border. They are with Slovenia as you know the river Dragonja, so Kupa, Sutla and Mura. With Hungary, it is the Drava River, and with Bosnia and Herzegovina the Sava River, Una and of course all of them cut off the plums of the Neretva River and our other rivers in Dalmatia that have been cut off with the state border. Such an agreement with Serbia-Montenegro, of course, could not have been at the time. In addition, the Republic of Croatia has accepted and signed several significant international agreements and conventions that regulate the issue of water economic relations, so I will list only two that are very important for this topic, which is the Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Water in the Danube River Basin, which, of course, concerns us and all the waters that go and land in the Republic of Croatia, and in the meantime, the Framework Directive on the waters of the European Union, which we have also started to apply in resolving legislation and all relations in the water economy. One very important and sensitive issue was the issue of river navigation on the Sava River without agreement with Serbia-Montenegro. Our ships from the Sava River, as well as those ships that were abducted, were located somewhere in Serbia or were connected by Budapest or Romania. They were unable to reach their home port, and the need for offices to relate to the regulation of sailing on the Sava River. So, under the auspices of the Stability Pact on 17 July 2004, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia and Serbia-Montenegro concluded a framework agreement on the Sava River Basin. The Croatian Parliament ratified it and entered into force on 29 December 2004. The agreement regulates the legal status of the Sava River as an international river, which is very important to us. So it is no longer a question of the relationship between the Republic of Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro or Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it has become an international river and all those provisions of international agreements that I was talking about earlier apply. The establishment of an international regime over the Sava River was then arranged. The legal status of its waterway within the pan of the European Corridor and the integrated water management of the Sava River Basin. The agreement established the International Commission for the Fleet of the Sava River, and states signatories agreed and agreed that the International Commission for the Sava River Basin would have its headquarters in Zagreb where the permanent secretariat of the international organisation would operate. In its responsibilities, the International Committee for the Sava Basin brings together important decisions and issues, firstly sailing along the Sava River and second integrated water management of the basin, which includes water maintenance, flood protection, use of water for economic purposes, energy use, water supply, fishing, sport, recreation, irrigation, but also includes water protection from the Sava River pollution, because all countries have made commitments to comply with international standards that Slovenia will continue its natural course when it leaves water on the Sava River and other rivers at the border crossing. The International Commission for the Flow of the Sava, as provided for in Article 19(2) of the Framework Agreement on the Sava Basin, is empowered to conclude a contract on the Commission's headquarters with the country of establishment. The agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Commission was concluded in Zagreb on 2 November 2005 and, of course, it resolved the usual things that are resolved by such a contract and settled on the status of the Secretariat and the International Commission in Zagreb. According to my assessment, the adoption of this law is a very important contribution to further development of international cooperation in the water management region. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58693	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58694	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. In front of us is the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the International Commission for the River Sava Basin on the Centre of the Commission. The SDP club fully accepts it. This is in fact a logical continuation of activities to regulate the navigation of economic use and to protect against the harmful action and pollution of this longest river, which was launched in late 2002 by the adoption of the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. To repeat, then, under the auspices of the Stability Pact for the Southeast Europe of the interested country Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia-Montenegro established the Sava Commission. The Commission's establishment provides for the regulation of navigation identical to the Danube navigation regime, which means that navigation will be free for commercial vessels of all countries. The Commission also foresees sustainable water management, which includes ensuring sufficient water and adequate quality for the conservation, protection and improvement of the aquatic eco-system, including eco-systems of natural lakes and swamps. But also to protect against the harmful effects of water, these are floods, erosions, ice, etc. The Croatian economy, as well as Croatians living along the river, also has interest in the work of this Commission. Especially if we know that the disintegration of the former Yugoslav community and wars in these areas in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina has been neglected as well as the meaningful use of the Sava. So they have also been looking forward to activities recently related to river sailing, both to Sava and to the Danube. Because by the Adriatic Sea, the Republic of Croatia has its own rivers to be used. For example, in December in Sisak near Galdova, a new river quote was opened for ships carrying out technical surveillance and remonting of inner navigation ships and building new water facilities, which is to be welcomed if it is clearly realised. Also Minister of Transport Kalmeta declares that preparations for the dig of the Danube-Sava canal in the length of 60 kilometers that would bring these two of our rivers together. The idea that came from the days of the Habsburg Empire, as well as the Minister of Reconstruction Radic spoke of it in '97. A year. That was December 5th. On January 18, 2006, it means a month and a half later, putting into operation lighting at the port of Vukovar worth 500 thousand kuna, in the port of Vukovar which has the most potential and which should further develop thinking about the start of work on the Danube-Sava channel has already grown into an announcement of the start of the construction of the canal. It was said by the minister that it was preparing documentation and studies, and the value of the project was estimated at around 4 and a half billion kuna. Four and a half billion money that does not exist, which is not my opinion but confirms a joint statement in Brcko since 13 December 2005, signed by the competent ministers of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. The statement confirmed the necessity of including in its development strategies and sailing along the Sava River as one of the priorities of these countries. The three countries are also scheduled to perform jointly towards international organisations to promote the objectives of the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement. And then we go to the most interesting. Part of the statement is also a call for donors and other financial institutions to provide financial support for the restoration and development of navigation to the Sava. So, financial assistance has been requested to edit Sava's waterway from Sisak downriver. You should know that donors can't solve any problems. We have seen this in the example of the restoration of the Vukovar that it restored, i.e. restores the Croatian state. Others can help, but they can't solve the general problem. And the only one interested in a full sail of Sava is Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we know what is the economic condition of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the focus of efforts on everything written in the Statute and the Sava River Basin Agreement will probably be on Croatia. And with this statement, a member of the government admits that the money, not for the construction of the canal, is not for the editing of the Sava trough. He just needs to be picked up. We believe in the SDP club that it is necessary to be responsible for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and not to promise something that is known not to be done. except for the possible laying of the foundation stone. So the security of the airworthiness of the Sava has great economic importance for the Republic of Croatia, but we need to approach this task responsibly because otherwise we will not know how to use the potentials of the Sava, the Drava, or the Danube, and then from this commission and that its headquarters in Zagreb will also be of great benefit. But I'm sure we'll talk more about it. In any case, to return to this proposal of the Commission's Headquarters Act, the SDP Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58695	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58696	Mr. President, the esteemed representative Pancic presented several incorrect allegations in his presentation. I'll fix only one, and I'll try two, as long as I can. First, there is no money in the Republic of Croatia to maintain the waterway on the Sava River. So it is enough to read the state budget and the item on which the funds are provided to carry out this serious and responsible work that is done neatly and on the river Savi sails ships. Secondly, the construction of the canal, so there is no Republic of Croatia 4.5 billion now in one place where only this way should be given a hand and take that money. She didn't even have Germany when she was working the Danube-Raina-Sava channel, she worked for 80 years, and we don't intend to do that channel that's going to solve the fate issue on the river... make it in a year. The government of the Republic of Croatia will probably work for ten years, and with one co-operation, I am convinced that it will provide resources for the construction of the facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58697	The HNS club, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58698	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Kupresk, I don't know what your function is now. I have to say we will also support this law and if anything good in this law is that Croatia has received the seat of this commission, and about the commissions and my experience with commissions they are about like cherchilov, you know, if you won't do anything then leave it to the commission. That's about what I think of commissions. As little as we know about this, you know, it wasn't easy to form this commission because you had our neighbouring state of Bosnia and Herzegovina that has two, three entities, two Federations, and it didn't work out in any way, and we're actually bordering along with Bosnia and Herzegovina across the Sava River, and clearly that these relations didn't just for the sake of their internal problems to establish with all our initiatives, right? On the third hand, you have again Serbia, which Sava is entering, and if you look at the two countries that are members of this committee, if it wasn't for Slovenia's entry, you would probably have declared this commission one of those alliances for the Western Balkans and it would be problematic. The happiness of God is that Slovenia is in this Commission, so no one can say that, right? And that Slovenia, we didn't have much of a relationship with them either. I don't even know what's going on right now, given their initiative to build four hydropower plants on the Sava River, and there are problems on the Mura River, they're building a hydropower plant. I don't know what our relations with them and what conditions we've given for it, but we couldn't build it without this commission agreeing with it and without getting the consent of the Croatian state at least, or those who care about Croatian waterways, so in this case, the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Economy. I don't expect any major effects from this commission, because I say these are three systems, the work comes down to shape, but since we have a seat probably Zagreb will be the headquarters, probably our initiatives can speed up and fix the work of that commission that is really very important to us you know. These stories about the fleet of Sava, the fleet to Brod, to Sisak sometimes to Zagreb, these are stories without cover, to Brod yet so, to Sisak only occasionally during the great waters, to Zagreb no matter what we think of it, clearly all of this can be arranged with various water structures and that we have it all, but then it costs very much. Unfortunately, we have a situation so far in these 15-16 years of Croatian democracy that we haven't maintained, we haven't maintained the flood protection facilities well enough, so flood defense, because there was no money in the Croatian Waters budget, no matter what the sources were. It's possible this year will be enough. I'm saying that that money that's been secured so far and what I know before 2000 was half of what I should have been. Half of what it was supposed to be. It's not a problem on Savi, it's a problem on other rivers, but you have another problem, it's the extraction of gravel on Sava. That's what I'd say completely out of control and there's a lot going on. And if we ban that one and we put in some kind of order, and Bosnia doesn't bring order, then you have the same problem. Because it's always a problem because Bosnia is, the border goes with the queen of the river and whatever you do, so if you're pulling out on one side and they're not pulling out, then it's coming down on their side. If they're pulling out, then they're coming down on their side, on your side. There is an additional problem that this gravel is not exploitable everywhere, it is only at certain places in Savi used for construction works for tampons, for concrete and for others, and in many places it is not usable because it is full of other clay material and it is not actually usable for construction purposes. There would be good, here I say we will support this law at the headquarters of this commission in Zagreb, we hope and initiatives from the Croatian side, and we hope that there are solutions to all these problems that are illusory to talk about them now here in the Parliament, those who are dealing with this know how big problems they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58699	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58700	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. A framework agreement on the Sava River Basin concluded by Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia and Serbia-Montenegro established an International Sava River Basin Commission or a short Sava Commission. The parties to the framework agreement also agreed that the headquarters of the Sava Commission and its secretariat should be in Zagreb. The proposed law confirms the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the International Commission for the Sava River Basin on the Commission's headquarters. It is unquestionable that such a way of solving problems and issues in the streams of certain rivers, therefore through international commissions, is not unknown, which gives us a close example of the Danube River clearly confirms. Two international organizations, each in their own domain, take care of the Danube plum. The Danube Commission, based in Budapest and the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River in Vienna. So, experience is not exactly Churchilllovska, the esteemed colleague Marasovic. But he's not here now. The arrangement of the Sava River Basin is very important for the Republic of Croatia in every respect, but it is also important for the other signatories of the Framework Agreement whether they are in the upper, middle or lower stream. And finally, Sava is the tributary of the Danube and the obligations of the arrangement exist also on that basis. Often, we are not even aware of how much and to what small details the influence of such a river has, in which way this influence is manifested. The example I'm about to make may seem to someone as amazing or out of the sphere believe it or not. But he's just a small part of the mosaic of those influences. Sources of water along the Danube coast on the move Lesna Zaravni around Vukovar are influenced by the water regime of the Sava River or, as the old people used to say, the Sava waters. It's hard to list all the benefits, which means everything to Sava for her lineup. Exploitation of gravel and sand, constantly renovating not small reserves of drinking water, primarily in the Zagreb area. The route to the front of Zagreb, the possibility of irrigation, the water regime of eastern Slavonian and Srijem oak forests. Ornithological reserves, of course, with all the caution of bird flu. Zone recreation along coastal towns, water sports, fishing sports and economic and the perspective of the projected multi-purpose channel Danube – Sava. And some claim, and rightly so, that the hydro-energy potential is not negligible on the move from, when it comes to Croatia, on a move from the Slovenian border to somewhere up to the height of Gradiška. The possibilities are therefore enormous, but also demanding. Because just for example, it is worth having the Republic of Croatia solve everything perfectly, and the neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, do not give it to God. I mean, first of all, the stream of the Bosnia River, which, along with the Sava for years, has been bringing in a lot of waste. Maybe it's unfortunate that now this central-Bosnian industrial pool is in the collapse, it almost doesn't work, and then there's no such pollution. Of course, it is not an individual solution, but it is necessary to work together on this. The Danube example, I say, confirms it again and best. Therefore, for the Republic of Croatia it is not an irrelevant issue of the headquarters of the Sava Commission as well as of the secretariats of the same and we can only welcome that it will be in Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58701	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the International Commission for the Sava River Basin on the Commission's headquarters. I'm voting on the bill. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 100 votes passed unanimously, passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58704	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me, here, to brief you on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Protocol on the Protection of the Sea against Contaminants from the Land. As already known, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided in 1993 to adopt the Barcelona Convention and also this Protocol on the Protection of the Sea. It was also in 1996 in Syracuse that this Protocol was renamed... , i.e. in the name itself, pollution from land activities has also been added. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And let me also say that the objective of this Protocol is that all those who are at sea have information if there is any pollution from the mainland. So we all get information about what it's like to be polluted, sort of and possibly affecting the environment. It is also by confirming this Law that our country has the opportunity to obtain complete information from all other states that are normally by the sea, about all activities that take place on the protection of the sea. Let me also say that the money sources for the implementation of this Protocol are secured from the aid for water protection, as well as the complete activities that will take place under this Protocol are compliance with the State Water Protection Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58705	Thank you. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? A spacious arrangement and protection of the environment? I'm opening a debate. HDZ MPs' club, respected representative Mirjana Brnadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58706	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants from the Land of the 1980 Convention on Protection in Athens entered into force on 17 June 83 and confirmed by the former state and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 93. The Protocol was amended and updated on 7 March 96 in Sirakuza and renamed to the Protocol on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution from sources and activities on land, etc. LBS program, protocol. The aim of this Protocol is to encourage the cooperation of the Parties for the protection of the Mediterranean Sea and the protection of the environment of the sea, coast and island by reducing, combating and eliminating the release of dangerous and harmful substances from sources and activities on land. The obligation of the parties is to take the necessary harmful substances from sources and activities, measures and activities to meet those objectives by favouring the gradual elimination of the introduction of toxic, persistent and bioaccumulative substances. The Protocol shall also ensure the mutual reporting of the parties to the measures taken, the results achieved and possible difficulties in the application of the Protocol, as well as the reporting of discharges arising from the pointal and scattered sources of activity on land in the area of the Contracting Parties, which may directly and indirectly affect the Mediterranean Sea area. This Protocol also opens cooperation in promoting the achievement and exchange of experience in the protection of the marine environment between Contracting Parties and the possibility of obtaining financial support for the preparation and production of measures programmes and improving waste water treatment technologies. The amendments and amendments to the Protocol in relation to the Protocol of 1980 consist of amending the name of the Protocol, amending and supplementing some articles with detailed explanations as well as supplementing the new additives, which is a list of dangerous and toxic substances and the best possible cleaning techniques. The monitoring of pollution from land shall be carried out by the competent Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and Croatian Water through monitoring of waterways affecting the sea at specific pointal sources of discharge, municipal disposal systems and direct discharge from certain industrial sources through the Institute of Water Licenses and Permissions. The 2005 National Action Plan identified the release and pollution from municipal and industrial sources, pollution reduction measures, the number and size of waste water treatment devices, funding sources and implementation deadlines. There are 41% of the population connected to the public drain system in the Adriatic basin, 21% of which is a waste water treatment system that we cannot be satisfied with mainly because of our tourist orientation. As for the quality of the coastal sea on the sea beaches, it was satisfactory, it was examined on 90% of beaches, on the largest number of beaches that failed to meet bacteriological criteria, it was found that these are beaches in an area where wastewater treatment systems and waste water treatment devices were not built. In the area of inflow of larger rivers such as Krka, Jadro, Cetina and Neretva, the addition of nutrients and the ratio of nitrogen and phosphorus is favourable so that eutrophication of the sea should not be a problem. Most of the problem of bringing nutrients into the sea comes in the area of larger cities, at the mouth of the Krka River and in the Gulf of Kastelan. According to the basic chemical and biological indicators for assessing the quality of surface waters that reach the sea, they are classified in the first or second category and, exceptionally, according to microbiological indicators and the fourth category, as a result of the unsuitable treatment of waste water from municipal sources. In line with the definition of the Republic of Croatia to preserve its own natural resources and according to the above mentioned pressure indicators, we believe that the validation of the amendments and the addition of the Protocol on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution from the mainland is of interest to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58707	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58708	Once again, Mr. President, you are already me, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So as one of the signatories of the Barcelona Convention, Croatia has committed itself to carrying out activities in order to effectively protect the Adriatic from all kinds of pollution and degradation of our sea as well as systematic, as an integral part of the Mediterranean. Without error, it can be said that Croatia's Adriatic coast with numerous islands of natural beauty can be measured with any world's natural sight. The fact that war destruction has significantly weakened our country's economic potential should also be pointed out. These facts also lead to today's desire to preserve natural beauty and at the same time to seek economic growth. It is a characteristic of the Croatian day. Wise state policy must be able to reconcile this because our interest must also be to preserve the natural environment, but also to ensure development. At the strategic level, let's call it that, the Republic of Croatia has taken the liberty of working to protect the Adriatic and thus the Mediterranean, to reduce the introduction of urban, industrial and other pollution as provided for in this Protocol. On the basis of the global and strategic action plan, we should also adopt our national action plan, where all aspects of the problem will be addressed, reducing environmental pollution in the coastal area of Croatia at the level as required by the guidelines and objectives of the strategic action plan. But where will the problem be? The description of the situation, the measures to be implemented for this part of the national action plan, has no objections, however, as cancer is the early majority of our plans, which is implementation, implementation. We're afraid it's just a tied-up paper bundle that's not going to be dusted down, and we're going from case to case, from county to county to county, to solve the emerging problems of the type of disposal of existing waste dumps, the realization of drain projects and the treatment of wastewater. It should be noted that less than 12% of all collected waste water is purified. By 2015, the resolution of existing deposits on the Adriatic coast is envisaged, and by 2025 the construction of wastewater treatment systems for population coefficients of 2 thousand to 15 thousand, however, it can be said that without further development of economic potential and without additional financial support, deadlines will be difficult to meet. Of course it must not be forgotten about industrial pollutions, they are the largest related to the production and development of energy and chemical industries. It is interesting to note that in one document of 2005 called "economic instruments to protect the sea from pollution from land" where, referring to potential radioactive waste and slag, the "Plomin" thermal power plant that previously used coal from rasa and the waste disposal site in the Gulf of Kastelan states that no systematic monitoring has been established so far, so there is no monitoring of environmental and sea impacts. So we don't have a complete picture of the situation of the existing problem. If we add other pollutants here as a result of tourist and residential construction on the coast and especially in the light of the development and construction of marinas, we see that the operation of transport ports and similar work in the implementation of both the Barcelona Convention and this Protocol as well as the NAP will be at stake. But it will best, for example, show how environmental and Adriatic protection works in Croatia and how much this issue is at the top of the Croatian government and whether decision-making takes more care of the private interest of large-scale capital or whether fundamental state interests are taken into account. Take, for example, the first Adria Society. The project fell on the first step of unpreparedness to make a professional environmental impact study and to prescribe all measures to protect the Adriatic, including double-plate tankers, their constant control, the ban on dropping ballast waters and the like. And why is that? Well, it's simply because large capital wants to go as cheaply as possible, and then it's not interested in specific environmental protection measures, which may be to understand, but also the state has to take care of its own interests. Or an example of another, LNG terminal. We'll agree that the terminal is necessary. Croatia would thus get a new, safer, delivery direction for supply with this energy. The terminal should also be built because of the needs of the Croatian economy and the needs of Croatian citizens, not a terminal that will serve interests outside Croatia as this government has imagined. It is particularly unacceptable when the current prime minister says he will be built in one place regardless of what the public and environmentalists say. The terminal can be built simply where the laws of Croatia and where the positions of the profession will be said to be built and not where large capital or certain political structures want to be built. That's how it's supposed to be in an orderly state. So, the terminal, yes, but for the needs of the Croatian economy, which would also solve the ecologically unacceptable work of the Plomin thermal power plant for the needs of Croatian households, with maximum security insurance for citizens and the environment. And what is the relationship to the protection of human health, governments are best shown and an example of the permit of the Vranjic government to process asbestos substances that are carcinogenic, where workers work without means of protection, products that are not to be placed on the domestic market and the European Union market. Workers are being poisoned, citizens who live there are being poisoned, the environment is polluting. And why is that? Because of the interest of the tycoon. Simple. According to the latest information, although the competent inspection was requested, she did not go to the factory because it seems forbidden to go there, because the factory would have to shut down and initiate proceedings against those who allowed her to work. And it seems to me that today we are announcing a strategy to fight corruption. Let's solve this problem, move on to new technologies, ensure that workers work without jeopardizing their own lives, and those who suffer clearly need to pay compensation. This kind of example, unfortunately, would have led to a crowd, a responsible state policy but also at a local level, depending on whether or not we are going to break such a practice and what interests we will protect. When we talk about protecting the Adriatic from pollution one more element should be taken into account and that is the fact that the biggest contaminant of the Adriatic Sea is our neighbor Italy. Our economy, i.e. Advantages to a large extent of technology as much damage as they do can't be measured by our neighbor's industry. For example, there is a river by which it engravings one of the most industrialised not Italian but European centres and there are other large cities and industries across the Italian side of the Adriatic. For this reason, it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to insist on including all coastal Adriatic states for taking responsibility for the protection of the Adriatic and the Adriatic coast. The Adriatic-Ionian initiative is one of the possible solutions to this problem. It should continue on water monitoring projects, implementation of emergency response plans, in cases of sea pollution and the like. Because without joint action, it is hardly possible to fulfil the tasks set out in the objectives of this Protocol. The awareness of the need for coordinated action on the protection of the Mediterranean is greater every day and Croatia needs to use this to better protect our part of the sea and coast. Although the quality of the Adriatic Sea is still relatively well preserved compared to other parts of the Mediterranean, we must be aware that such a situation will not be maintained for long unless we take all necessary measures. One of the fundamental national interests of the Republic of Croatia is certainly the preservation of the Adriatic. The acceptance of this Protocol is an incentive not to forget this interest and to continue, regardless of the chronic lack of financial resources with the implementation of safeguard measures and to raise awareness of the necessity of adequate protection of this sea, because everything we do is for the sake of our health, our children and future generations. Therefore, the SDP Club accepts this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58709	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58710	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! A fellow Pancic listed a number of incorrect allegations but let me correct only one, which is next. I quote, "The action plan is a pile of paper that will remain in the drawer and will never be realized.". So, Mr Pancic, do you know that in 1990, the Republic of Croatia dropped wastewater in the Adriatic Sea after declaring independence and that only 12% of the population were involved in the integration systems. Today it's 41 or 42%. Secondly, in addition to this plan, there is a state plan to protect water that is realised. It is currently being built in our units of local self-government in order to protect the Adriatic Sea over forty drain systems, waste water and treatment plants, without speaking in Split where a huge system is built.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58711	Thank you very much. The second correction by the respected representative Mirjana Brnadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58712	Thank you very much. My colleague Pancic, in his presentation, confused pears and apples and presented a number of incorrect allegations, and I really have to correct and for the sake of the public. This petty tampering of Mr. Pancic that Dr. Sanader said the gas terminal would be located in some location, no matter what the public or environmentalists said. Well, it's a really notorious lie and really an ugly bribery because Dr. Sanader never said it. Nobody's smart enough to say that, especially him. He said the exact opposite. On the contrary. He said the terminal would be located where the waist says it is most needed, where the economy says it is the most needed, and the waist is the main one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58713	Third correction, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58714	Thank you. So, in fact, on the trail of what Mrs. Brnadić is saying, and speaking of asbestos and salon pal Pancic, he played a little bit when he claimed that the tycoons were the ones who set up and maintained such production that the residents and workers were poisoned. That's just not true. The production was established by self-control and communists long ago, and this government cannot be planted, this government is looking for a way to finally shut down this production so that it can live normally in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58715	Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić. Fourth Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58716	Here's to the same subject. Azvestoza is a disease that has been known for decades. And the previous government had the opportunity to shut down that factory because it knew that asbestos was health-threatening and that it was even cancerous. She didn't do it. And now that the workers are asking to finish, to spend that material that they don't, and to get a few more salaries before they're definitely found for them, the solution is now being planted that it's a tycoon issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58717	Honorable representative Ante Markov on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58718	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants from Land. When does it occur in nature and when does organized, institutionalized care of the Mediterranean occur? Is that the 1976 Barcelona Convention or is that before? Whether the Athens Protocol begins a more elaborate performance of all Mediterranean countries in a way that protects the Mediterranean and preserves it for the future. There is, of course, a whole series of dates from the European Community that have, on several occasions, adopted directives and guidelines on the protection of the Mediterranean and other parts of the sea. There are more conclusions from Mediterranean countries on how to protect the Mediterranean but in general it is believed that the Athens Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution from the mainland is one of the most important documents that simply networked all the Mediterranean countries and that has evenled the protection systems but also for the first time covered and graduated economic action in the Mediterranean. It's actually the most important link and the most important chain that has been launched in terms of serious concern for the Mediterranean. Why do I mention the Mediterranean? Namely, the Mediterranean in translation means the sea in the center of the mainland. For those who don't know. I'll let my colleague know. Of course, I don't mention it because of it, but this particular sea in the center of the mainland is about the seriousness of a threat that could endanger the Mediterranean. Of course if you try to focus on the Adriatic from the Mediterranean then it is about the same if it is not more exposed to possible negative influences and negative selections but also more vulnerable, given its scope. Very interesting, perhaps one of the most interesting research that has been done in this field has been carried out by the World Nature Protection Foundation. Namely, it placed the outer islands of central and southern Dalmatia in the 10 last paradise oasis. That's what official research has shown. And of course, the protection of these oasis is necessary to preserve the entire region. At global level, marine areas are divided into 18 ecological regions, of course, based primarily on biogeographical criteria. And on this scale, the Mediterranean has just been established as a unique large and semi-closed eco-regional region, and the area of central and southern Dalmatia's external islands has been defined as a priority zone in the Mediterranean ego region. Why am I saying this all together? So first of all to try to establish a very important, important feature of the Adriatic Sea, precisely this micro-region and that precisely because of its biological value and almost intact nature which it is, which is that it is now representing both cultural and natural value. Of course, one of the organizations that deals with this particular problem on the premises, our premises of the Association for Environmental Protection "Sun" which is also a partner, which is also a partner of the World Foundation for Nature Protection is currently under way. Of course, it is always constantly developing, which should promote the sustainable development of the Adriatic. The sustainable development of these most valuable eco-systems of the Adriatic. What, in fact, was the goal of these research particularly of the Sun Association that worked most on it? In fact, it has established and it has practically shown that, with the fact that we have the most preserved part of the eco system in the overall Mediterranean, that organised care or institutionalized supervision is still not at the level of the value it protects. It is therefore good to adopt this Protocol on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution from the mainland as one collective document which should be used when making and when adopting an entire set of laws to be adopted. One of those laws that must, of course, always rely on this law, that is, this protocol was discussed yesterday by the Island Act as well as a whole series of legal measures and legal solutions that are trying to pass in this field. The key question is whether the Republic of Croatia and to what extent it has been able to identify the dangers arising from the marine environment, living resources, for human health due to pollution coming from the mainland. Of course, and not only from the mainland, because in recent times the development of tourism, especially nautical tourism has created an additional danger, of course, even as far as environmental protection is concerned, and this is the fact that on the Adriatic Sea of those ships, boats, sailboats, which during the season live all 35 have a possible port. And it's actually a very serious problem that should be discussed on two levels. The first level is the development of a study on the development of nautical tourism, which should assess the possibilities of the Adriatic Sea in terms of boat acceptance, which are these limits. Some areas within the Adriatic are particularly protected areas, areas which, of course, cannot receive as many ships and boats as there is interest. Therefore, there must be a system that will accurately and decidably try to establish order in this regard. At this point, all those who have been, live there or sailed or have had opportunities can be sure to testify that at this moment we have a great deal of pressure. The offer is such that it will simply seal the sea, islands and shores. And without making one full study and strategy to develop nautical tourism which has recently been no longer a specificum, it is not something that happens along the way, but has become a mass phenomenon. In the past 10 years, gentlemen have become a mass phenomenon as well as so-called seasonal summer tourism. Therefore, on the one hand, Croatia exhibits its most valuable resources at this moment of unnecessary use, and on the other hand we do not obtain those financial effects that we could do in conditions that we are fully organized. Because it means one example of those 60% of ships that can't dock nautical tourism in the harbor or any other port. They agree where? Sidree gets where they come from. Often and counter-experienced in the sea. With their anchors, they pollute the submersible, with their anchors, of course, by dumping the waste that they have on their ships, they put it where they get it, they don't pay anyone for their own, they get their anchors, and we get some natural coves that when you look at their submarines, if you dive down there you see that you have an eco disaster, that there's actually a garbage dump that when you wake up in the morning and you look at the blue sea you don't see. But they're down there. They're down there. It was this association that showed the so - called ugly diversity of Adriatics recorded in the submersible that was shown in their recordings at about 10 months. Therefore, if we look at the Adriatic, if we look at whether Croatia has fully recognized the danger then we must ring all the bells and make one side of the assessment of the situation today on the Adriatic. The assessment and analysis of those economic activities that will be consistent with natural possibilities, because if we cross that line and increase the exploitation of natural resources then in ten years it will no longer be a product that will interest anyone. Because when we get to it when the boat is parked and you can no longer see the bottom at 4 meters then you'll be in the same position as the Italian and French coast. In other words, you'll be uninteresting. Therefore, Croatia must make a strategy for the overall potential of the Adriatic as soon as possible for us, it must make individual strategies for the development of nautical tourism by absolutely necessary in this strategy to position care for people, care for people living in those areas, located on these islands, and who in some way in cooperation with nature are trying to be part of it. That is why the initiatives that come from various sides are valuable, which say that Croatia is at this point, even as far as tourism is concerned, and at this point it is a strategic commitment located at the turning point. Whether to choose the trend of mass and facelessness in the tourist offer or to develop a recognizable tourist product. Of course, I don't think mass is bad in itself. It is as good as a figure, but the content of this mass should be a recognizable tourist product. Croatia is too small to be but should not be too small, only to see other people's experiences primarily Spanish and Greek in terms of so-called Tourism without identity. It is precisely this unidentified tourism that is, in fact, the biggest obstacle to development, but also the biggest obstacle in this Protocol on Protection. Therefore, Croatia still has an outstanding chance. She said I was at the turning point, whether she would accept the methods of mass and impersonality or would deal with all those who at the professional level, who at the level of serious people who are considering the future want to claim that Croatia has all the elements to develop a recognizable tourist identity. And that this identity is actually a driving force for the development of all tourism initiatives, to be the very driving force that will always be on the left hand side to care for nature protection, care for the protection of these eco values, but also care for the man who is the greatest guarantee and greatest participant in that protection. On the other hand, Croatia has the opportunity to develop on this and such a strategic tourism initiative, so I will show all the and all the Croatian economy. Because there is hardly any activity in the economy today that cannot find its market on such tourism with Croatian identity. Because only tourism with Croatian identity has the right and will be able to compete, it will be able to be positioned in the total tourist offer. Only such tourism will interest someone. Only tourism where you will experience what you cannot experience at home. In that Europe, it will be interesting and it will have a price. Only tourism that doesn't have someone else, and you have it will have a price. And we're interested in those who come here and pay as much as they can. And for that, they get the favor that belongs to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58719	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58720	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. First, what is amazing is this claim that the implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the state budget. However, it is claimed a little further that the protocol will be implemented by means of protection of water that collects the meaning of Croatian water. On this occasion, however, I hope that the government will consider, as President Sanader at the last session, or at the last current hour, promised these proposed water charges that question normal economic activity. Because each of you will agree with me that 18 thousand kuna for water compensation in the first zone for building a 100 squares house is an abnormal amount. In the second zone, it's 12,000 kuna. Four thousand 500 kuna, if I'm not mistaken for an area of special state concern. And all for a 100-square building. Who's building a 100-square house, though? No one, like 200 squares. And then to get a building permit for that 200-square house, you need 200 thousand kuna. Just to get the paper so we can start building. For a hall size of a thousand squares of height, let's say 6 to 7 meters you need over 500 thousand kuna just for a water fee. And so, gentlemen, that's what I'm trying to say, let's not make money like that, say, for this protocol. I'm not going to quote what we've already heard, the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea, it's in effect, it's adopted in the '80s. the years in Athens, etc., entered into force on 17 June 1983. Or on page 6, where we are literally told that the contractual sides of this Protocol in, the parties to the text below, will take all appropriate measures to prevent, reduce suppression, remove to the greatest extent possible pollution of the Mediterranean Sea area caused by the release from rivers, coastal objects or spills, or resulting from any other or activities on land, in their territory, etc., etc., finished quote. Unfortunately, not fortunately, Croatia with this Protocol, to be cynical will have no problem. We solved this problem very, very successfully there in the early 1990s as if we were trying, no, to comply with this protocol in the way that we put out the entire heavy industry or rather the whole industry along the coast. In one Split, 20 to 25 thousand jobs were shut down, in Rijeka 10 to 15, in Pula, God gave me the same 5 thousand, for sure. Maybe today, employment is the same as it was in '91. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58721	Comrade Cain, this is not what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58722	However... What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58723	That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58724	How does it not belong?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58725	It doesn't belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58726	We must be honest, Mr. President, and admit that this is what happened and that just today, from Rijeka to Split, we are left without industry, except for these four shipyards.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58727	Comrade Cain, final warning, final warning. I'll take your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58728	But here, I'm saying we're not gonna have any trouble with protocol, with pollution because they're in the '90s. 4 shipyards survived, though with 8 billion kunas of outstanding liabilities, one or two remounted shipyards, one INA facility in Omislja, one terminal and that's about it. And that's awesome. But no one, unfortunately, thinks about it. However, now, as Mr. Pancic says, the further work of this asbestos factory is beginning to be considered not far from Split, but God forbid Mr. Rebić's words are coming true and that the plant is simply relatively fast, under the quotes "shut down". It's to shut down, and the others to open up. One who thinks that we can only live on olives, tourism for two months, sheep that no one wants to fall again, and a couple of fishermen is a sucker. So we kind of need the industry up the coast. We need ports, we need shipyards, we need capital to run this..
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58729	Thank you very much. I'm closing your debate. I warned you, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58730	Mr. President, I'm sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58731	There's nothing more to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58732	But I have a right in front of the club...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58733	Honorable representative Jaksa Marasovic on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58734	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The HNS Club will vote in favour of this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants from Land. But I have to ask the promoter, are all the countries that are oriented towards the Mediterranean Sea signatories of this agreement? Namely, I did not find in this text who all signed this agreement, because that is one very interesting question. I don't know which one of you knows, but just what Neil brings to the Mediterranean, I'm sure all the countries that are oriented to the Adriatic can't bring. What? ... It's just Neil. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now what are we talking about? By the way, there's something else I need to say. Around the Croatian part of the Adriatic coast lives about a million and a half people on a permanent basis, autochton, so with everything that's gravitating towards the Adriatic, they don't even have to be at sea, because that's important here is pollution from the mainland. You know, it is important here whether Bosnia and Herzegovina is signing this agreement and whether it will stick to this agreement in terms of the pollution of the Neretva that ends in the Adriatic, in terms of the pollution of Trebisnica that ends in the Adriatic. Here's the Wolf. He needs to know that Ogulin's coming to the Adriatic. So his sewerage was not built in the end in the Adriatic. So I'm saying that it's important that everyone sign this agreement, it's important how much we stick to it, because at least it's Croatia's damage to the Adriatic, and that's clear from all the analyses because the Croatian part of the Adriatic is the cleanest part of the Mediterranean, but in the world and Markovjev at all, that it's paradise on earth, so that's quite clear with all this, which wasn't the sewage system, which wasn't a wastewater treatment device, but today it's a relatively long one, and what Mr. Shirac river these 41% needs to be increased in the next 15 years to 90% of the bar regarding the sewer systems and the construction of the submarine discharges is long enough, and then we won't have problems. Are we going to have mechanical devices that would be good, and for the chemical-biological certainty that we shouldn't, except at certain locations where especially sensitive environments are. Because I repeat, a million and a half people on our part, and in Italian 30 million, that's your relationship 20 times. Now imagine the industry that Cain was removed from this pay phone, which has Italy, and imagine the industry that Croatia has. In fact, Croatia does not have an industry that pollutes or has very little, very little, only that it is troublesome with Dalmatiacement and Dalmatia is no longer problematic because it is also poor products with the Termoelectrica in Plomin, but I don't think that these are some problems that would be major problems, it is that it is very simple to solve and it is not that problem either. We, in fact, must invest large funds in the protection of the water streams that go, which gravity towards the Adriatic, which pour into the Adriatic, and there will be a need from Istria to down to Konavala to invest quite a lot of resources, because, by protecting these rivers and streams, we are actually protecting the Adriatic Sea. And I wanted to say one more thing. I now have to go back to that strategy that we brought here a few days ago and that money that was provided for in that strategy seems to me from 3.15 or 3.25 billion within 25 of 35 years, the euro. So if we accept this protocol, we must be aware that this money will be too small, that investment in these hundreds of Adriatic tourist settlements will be necessary and that great investment in the construction of sewer systems because I will tell you about the illustration. The city of Vela Luka, which itself has 5,000 people, and it grows to 30,000 people in summer, has no sewers at all. So what has gone directly to the sea, in its time in Split on the waterfront. And there will be a need for large investments, and clearly it will not be able to be its own, therefore its own from municipal systems and Croatian waters, but there will have to be additional funds that we can get from pre-accession funds. Unfortunately, I don't think we're ready to compete for these pre-accession funds, because we don't have enough well-developed documentation to compete for it, so we seem that out of all this money we're supposed to get, we're going to get only for these big projects like they got Karlovac now and the railroad in Slavonia, and these many smaller projects are going to run out of that money. That's not good. This should also be done by not only local self-government and those in charge of it, but also by Croatian Waters and Ministry help them to get to that documentation as soon as possible, if they can't compete this year so they can compete next year. An additional problem, a huge problem for the wastewater disposal system in the Adriatic, is that it grows to you in relation to the winter/year of 1:2 in larger cities, in larger places up to 1:20 in small, smaller places. Because those three months, three or four months when tourists come to you, it's 20 times more than an indigenous local population, and that's a technical and technological problem how to design and build these systems. It is another problem that, which must be aware, which today is actually very little working on, because we are actually doing what we do in Croatia, bigger towns, bigger cities. So, here, let's say, Zadar could start building a treatment and shipping device this year. So there's still a lot of, a lot of those cities that aren't even close to handling it. But I can't help but mention that problem again. So we need to know here order size. What effect does Croatia have on the Adriatic, and what impact on the Mediterranean, on other countries? And because of that, regardless of what this Protocol here we'll be for it, I don't think we should fall under influence, especially Italy, which is a big country and which is asking us for a lot of things, and they know how they behave and we know what the Po River means for the complete Adriatic, not to say for the North Adriatic. It is a larger cause of the pollution of the Adriatic River Po than the whole of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58735	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58736	counterpart Jaksa probably accidentally said that at least Croatia is polluting the Adriatic. Of course that's not true. I guess our people who live, our tourists who come, our cities located along the Adriatic coast and on the islands are primarily responsible for the sea being clean, or because the sea is unclean. Of course, the influence has a neighbouring Italy, but primarily I think that all the reasons for the pollution or the poorer sea and the submarines have to look for themselves, and then just ask others to behave. Hence, our conduct and our responsibilities toward the Adriatic Sea can serve as a serious reason to expect that from our neighbors. But without us, of course, we won't be able to create a more positive picture, nor will the Adriatic Sea look cleaner.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58737	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58738	Dear Mr. Marasovic, I am not removed from the pay phone but I am expelled from the pay phone and on the basis of a flat-rate, impertinent, arrogant and arrogant decision by the chairman...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58739	Thank you very much, I take your word. Please sit down. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58740	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58741	Mr. Cain, according to Article 210. The Rules of Procedure, when the speaker is away from the topic, the President will warn him. He's bound to warn him to stick to the agenda. I kept my warning and my duty to warn you and to keep you. I warned you again, I warned you again twice. And then, in accordance with Rule 210(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I took the floor away from you. Therefore, I was obliged to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and I followed the Rules of Procedure, and I will stick to it. ... I gave you a warning because of the offensive behavior and speech right now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And according to this agenda point, according to the Rules of Procedure, you will no longer get the word and you will not speak. HSP representative club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58742	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, highly respected gentlemen from the D.A.'s Department. This Protocol is a continuation of the Barcelona Convention signed by the Mediterranean countries to protect the Mediterranean Sea. Of course, it has a series of protocols, one of which is this one, and the other are those related to the wave of pollution from ships, i.e. pollution by oil emissions. One of these protocols we also recently ratified here and that is good, that Croatia shows its concern for its Adriatic. But here in this Act of Confirmation of this Protocol, we at the club one thing is not quite clear. Which is why this Protocol in the Assembly must defend the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy until we see no representative of the Ministry of the Sea. It seems to me that if the implementation of the Barcelona Convention is based on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea, then the protocols should be assigned by jurisdiction in the first order of the Ministry of the Sea, not the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy. But it's a matter of unfortunate division of jurisdiction. As regards the other parts of this Act, i.e. this Protocol, it is essential to note that the Protocol covers pollution from the land that arises. On the one hand, from housing, and on the other hand from industrial and economic activities from the mainland. Of course, no one in Croatia calls for the re-industrialisation of the heavy industry that would drop into the Adriatic again some waste water of heavy metals, as it was in the Gulf of Kastela, that is to say, accommodation of production with mini-chlorid monomers or other waste materials that can be spread to the sea both through waste water and through the aero-sols. Of course, however, this brings us to the question of what kind of industry and what kind of economy we can have on the Adriatic. It is clear that Croatia acts very responsibly on this side and will act very responsibly. We have the largest area of the Adriatic Sea, Croatia has the longest length of the seashore and of course Croatia is very interested in adopting this Protocol. But there is a question of Article 10 of this Protocol, which is relations with neighbours. In fact, we are also absolutely powerless under this Protocol if this pollution comes from our neighborhood. So it's not just the pollution through the Neretva Valley mentioned here by a colleague from the HNS. The problem is also pollution from the river Po which should not be underestimated. We underestimated it because it is generally claimed that the sea currents in the Adriatic are coming from the east coast from the south to the north, and from the west coast from the north to the south, and then, in theory, it all goes down the Italian coast of the Adriatic. In principle, however, simulations by colleagues at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute show that the joint of the south and the tide actually seems to be quite the opposite, which is that the total streaming of waste materials from the Po River can be moved to the western coast of Istria and the Kvarner Bay. What in this situation do you do? Nothing if Italy doesn't ratify such a protocol, because we can act on international agreements and protocols towards a country that violates the protocol, then and only if it is a signatory, and that's why I'm missing a list of countries that have ratified the protocol so far, so we know what to do. Also, as I remember in the protocol that regulates sea pollution by oil drop, I mean tankers, of course, is also foreseen, of course, that fund is filled with all the countries that are signatories, but I'd like to see what the fund regulation looks like here and it's a pity that in the opening statement, the Ministry's representative did not and explained it more closely. So, if there's any pollution from our neighborhood either because of the Neretva spill, whether it's because of the Poe River, or because of some industrial plant in our neighbouring countries, how are we going to react, how are we going to look for damage, how are we going to lead the disputes? It is mentioned only that the parties concerned undertake to start consultations to find a satisfactory solution. It's very... a formulation that does not actually give sufficient power to Croatia to put pressure on its neighbours to break off this activity, to remember that this is all being poured into the common sea, into the Adriatic that is shallow, closed sea with very slow sea changes, for 10 years it should be led to change in the Adriatic and without such a mechanism of pressure on its neighbours we can actually do nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will behave perfectly correctly, which is quite clear because we love our Adriatic, but the big question of the ministry is how do we put pressure on an irresponsible economy in Italy or in BiH if they continue with their moves so far? No one says that the spilling of that oil in Neretva will be the last, there is something even scarier waiting for us from one or the other coast of the Adriatic, but we don't really have any mechanisms to prevent it with this Protocol. It is also good to finally start talking here in the Parliament about one notor fact, which is that tourism pollutes the Adriatic. In Croatia, it often presents itself as a straw of salvation for our coast and islands, of course, that many of it earn well in summer, and that is good, but we must start to act responsibly, not only on hard waste, but also on wastewaters, and the country that signs and ratifys such a Protocol must also start to take care of other consequences of tourism, hence wastewater and its responsibility for the pollution of the Adriatic. So it's not just about industry when it comes to the pollution of the Adriatic, it's about tourism. The creation of apartment settlements, a whole series of complexes on our islands that are planned in spatial plans and which the ministry is blessing are actually potential points of great pollution. One thing is when it comes to... the construction of islands or inhabitants of our coast, and the second is when it comes to megalomanic complexes planned, for example on the eastern coast of Hvar, which are planned elsewhere on the Adriatic or in Solta or on Brač. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will turn a little bit into a copy of Spain, but I would then ask that those who do so take care that in the meantime, Croatia is the signatories of this Protocol and that we turn out to be ridiculous in international circles. On the one hand, we accept the Protocol that protects our Adriatic from irresponsible behaviour in the development of the economy, and on the other hand, we look to tourism as if it does not pollute the Adriatic. So let us start to take care of what the gains are and what the losses are in certain economic moves. This protocol reminds us of that. The HSP Club will, of course, support this Protocol, but we kindly ask the Ministry's representatives to inform us. First, which the countries still in the Mediterranean and especially in the Adriatic Sea have signed and ratified this Protocol and the second which is a compensation mechanism for pollution from the neighbourhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58743	Thank you. 11 hours and 4 minutes have elapsed time to apply for a 10-minute debate on this agenda point. The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58744	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Party of Retired Persons will support this Proposal for a Law with exceptional satisfaction as the preservation of the nature of the clean environment and of organised and active society in all segments is the basis of our political action. The only thing that bothers us in this story is that we too point out that this care is bound by conventions as if it is not older than all conventions that the people that clean up should always from their own yard, as if it were not our dominant obligation to leave the living environment to the right and healthy ones who come. So to those of whom we borrowed all this good about us. According to those of whom we inherited it, we no longer have obligations, but to those who come we have. Isn't our Croatia one big yard, isn't it mandatory to keep this great yard properly clean and upright? This bill establishes commendable monitoring and records of marine pollutants, from land, from all aspects, and this is the dominant obligation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, but it is only an easier part of the job. What we in Croatia appreciate in the retirement party is the difficult part of the overall obligation to create action plans and programmes and measures to combat sea pollution from the mainland, but also what this proposal does not say, which is the resolution of previous sea pollution or better the whole marine environment. In doing so, we aim at two categories of solid waste that I will especially highlight, I would not enter into everything that my colleague Tadic had previously said which we in HSU fully support from the position of legal regularity and expertise I would aim at two categories of pollution of the sea or the marine environment. These are two categories of solid waste that reach the marine environment by water, air and sea transport. In particular, these are PVC bags that permanently pollute seawater, seabed because they are practically indegradable and the sea does not have a system self-defense from these "insects" to get rid of them, to clean themselves of them because they either float on water, or under water, or lie on the sea floor, and it primarily looks awful ugly without talking about the feeling of us domicile as well as strangers swimming in the sea in the summer months running into a PVC bag. You don't know if you've been hit by a jellyfish, what you ran into. That's one terrible feeling. Of course, this, as well as the systematic cleaning of the seashore and the seashore, is part of the marine environment of solid biodegradable and indegradable waste, is not resolved by this bill. But the situation that we have in that environment, which we are only describing now, obliges us to act. The activities that have recently been introduced and which we have witnessed and are still under way with packaging five where we have practically cleaned a lot of our environment from this packaging prove that it is possible to act if it really does. Of course, there is a crucial moment here, or as it is common to say here in this assembly if there is political will. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection must co-ordinate the programmes of measures and activities of environmental recovery and we consider this a first priority, and this should be done with units of local and regional and regional self-government. The funds for this are easy to do, but they must be found and there is too much to forgive for unemployed citizens in Croatia. And occasional employment in nature's return function is certainly welcome and is better than this total unemployment. Every job is honorable, and especially is the one in which we leave nature to our heirs in the right condition. Also, these two ministries must design in our opinion in Croatia a party to pensioners a programme to reduce the use or emissions and use of PVC bags. Our personal committee and the need to advertise in the long term cannot be in front of nature protection, in this case the sea and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58745	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58746	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! In my debate and driven by some debates, I would like to stress that the Adriatic Sea is only one part of the Mediterranean Sea, that it is actually a small sea that has a specific flow regime. The water to change in the Adriatic Sea should take ten years and it is long to make sure that the impact of pollution coming from our neighbouring countries in Italy has no impact in Croatia on the research that is mentioned here, carried out at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute and financed by the Croatian Waters funds have proved that there is a so-called "Ruđer Boskovic" Institute. cross currents in the Adriatic Sea where pollution can indeed come and even to Kvarner. What do I mean by that? That our Adriatic Sea is a specific ecological space that needs to be very carefully and carefully managed but should certainly be used and used because it is one of the biggest economic potentials for the citizens of Croatia and Croatia, including the development of the economy, among other things, tourism and all that such benefits as seaways, sea water and all that it provides for the organisation of life and economy are provided by the Adriatic Sea. We immediately took over the Barcelona Convention after the independence of the Republic of Croatia, estimating that we should not carry out activities to protect the Adriatic Sea for the sake of Greece or someone else but because of us, our citizens and our national interests to keep our space and our wealth as long as possible in a natural and intact state. Of course, the sea needs to use those spaces, but the same way in our economic development we opted for sustainable development, means only as much as it takes for us to preserve it all for generations to come behind us. Now, specifically about this protocol and the debate that's being held here today. Well, most colleagues don't understand that protocol, IV. The Protocol of the Barcelona Convention includes addressing the issue of protection of the Adriatic Sea against pollution from land. If territorially I were now able to show on one map what that means and that means that the jurisdiction of this protocol extends to the border of the river Neretva. This means deep in Bosnia and deep into the continental part of the Republic of Croatia with which we as a state undertake to address certain issues of protection, so we must address the issue of water protection and river protection in order to protect our seas. And I remind you again, he's working for us and he's not working for someone else. But this protocol provides us with the possibility that in the realization of him through so-called. The Mediterranean Action Programme also participates in the European Union to participate and the United Nations, that through the implementation of this protocol, we have raised several million, we can even say a few dozen million donations to address our problems of purification and construction of drain systems and we will safely come into a situation so that we can use international law against those who are jeopardising our environmental space or our national space. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, that's what to say. It can't be about that, the Ministry of the Sea. It is required, according to the structure of our ministries and state administrations, to cooperate with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy, but it is primarily required to take care of that third protocol of the Barcelona Convention relating to pollution from ships or oils and so on. There's another protocol in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. And that's air pollution. We have huge pollution coming from southern France and Italy to winds that come from that time of year and bring air pollution. Well, look at our forests in the Gorski Kotar. They are not affected by what we do in Croatia or produce some kind of pollution or blow up. That's what the chemical industry is releasing to you in Central and South France and in southern Italy. So they take care of each ministry for their own, and through the Government of the Republic of Croatia we all need through this House ours as our largest legislative body to create conditions for the implementation of these programmes. I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, It is, it will be one sure opportunity for us to bring out some other points, but I think it is about protecting the national interests of the Republic of Croatia that we are allowed through this protocol and that we should accept it. Mr. President, I'll support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58747	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58748	Thank you, Mr. President. In his debate, he would have partly referred to the debates of colleagues so far, and I did not use replicas or corrections of incorrect allegations to avoid actually interrupting the debate. So here we heard dilemmas sign or don't sign the protocol since someone else signed or didn't. We can certainly set such a dilemma, however, if we want our sea, the Adriatic Sea, the Croatian sea clean sea, then we cannot ask others to follow certain rules if we do not respect them ourselves. So there's no such thing as an absolute dilemma. Also, one MP here advocated the literal industrialisation of Croatia, which is quite the opposite of the requirements of the announced project and its party president under the Alpe-Adria regional initiative that he wants to preserve indigenously old settlements, so original, originally as they are. So I'm not absolutely clear about it either. On the other hand, there was also a question of why the representatives of agriculture here, and this protocol, this protocol is now called the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants from Land. Therefore, it is primarily your job to deal with this problem. There is therefore no excuse for such a question. Ladies and gentlemen, as early as 1992, with a rally from Rio that has been involved in the protection of the entire country, but also in the protection of the sea, it is also required to predict and prevent further disturbance of the marine environment and reduce the risk of long-term and irreparable influences on the sea and oceans. It is requested to be involved in the protection of the seas of the overall development programmes for environmental protection and social and economic programmes. Next, the polluter pays principle and the use of economic incentives to reduce sea pollution. It has been requested to improve the living standards of coastal inhabitants especially in developing countries in order to contribute to the protection of the coastal and marine environment. It is then required to suspend or reduce the release of synthetic chemicals into marine eco-systems that reach the marine organisms and accumulate there in large quantities. It is also required to reduce and monitor the release of toxic waste and to establish safe dumps of these wastes on land instead of being put off into marine eco-systems. Nitrogen and phosphorus improve the rapid growth of marine plants. Therefore, strict monitoring of their releases to the marine eco-system is determined. Encouraging such soil treatment techniques that reduce the erosion of the country and transport it through rivers to marine eco-systems. Finally, the ban on the use of harmful pesticides and artificial fertilisers and the reduction of the use of less dangerous and the use of natural methods to control pests. Why is this last provision really important? I hold in my hand an article published by our scientists in Croatia, at the Croatian Institute of Public Health where they compared the level of pesticides. chlorinated hydrocarbons in the meat and fish. And it's very important that actually when they analyzed meat and up to ten times the level in the meat of domestic production of these toxic substances is lower than in the import meat. But unfortunately, when it comes to fish, that's not the case. Why? The Adriatic Sea is a closed sea, a warm sea, and we are not fishing in some other sea but our own. Thus, it is entirely unwarranted to ask a question if someone else is not why should we actually bring this protocol into force or protect it? We need to protect ourselves first and foremost because of ourselves and then because of, and then for, everyone else and the whole country. If all the other nations, the great nations, therefore, and the great contaminants do not accept this protocol and the like, if they disobey these calls from Rio, then I would still read them what follows them, or what follows us, and I would end it. He says, "If the oceans die as they will if we continue to pollute the continental plateaus with sewers, industrial waste, if we don't stop the oil pollution that covers the surface and crosses the oxygenation, if the oceans die, there will be unprecedented chaos and terror on the ground. The oceans maintain the balance between the levels of salt and the gases on which our lives depend, and when the oceans die, the carbon dioxide content in the atmosphere will grow and grow until it forms a wrapper around the Earth. From this will develop greenhouse effect, the heat rising from the ground will be caught and docked under the stratosphere and air temperature and the sea will rise. The melting of polar ice into the oceans will raise the sea level by 30 meters in a couple of years and submerged many great cities on our land. On our planet. If the oceans die a man will die within 50 years starving on high mountains without food or oxygen." So says John Gordon and we're here for a culture of life, not a culture of death. So my support and our support for this protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58749	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58750	Then the last thing I wouldn't want to do is answer anything, because those disasters that, as this Mr. John Gordon is called, it's stupid to even talk about it. But as the doctor mentioned pesticides and nitrogen, unfortunately we have no pesticides or production on the Adriatic. You know, you all know that the only production we have now on the Adriatic is Neretva and it can be reduced to Mandarins all of it. Everything else is nothing or small, and as far as fish are concerned, about 80% of the fish caught in Croatia goes to Italy. So, they eat our fish and believe me it's much better to pay than their own, much better than their own which they also hunt in the Adriatic. And I must say that there is no healthier food than that fish that is fished on the Adriatic. By the way, there's something else I need to say. We have electricity that goes along, so from the fire doors to our shores and everything, so that's quite a strong current. For example, in the Korčula Channel, turbines can spin. That power is, therefore, like a river and everything on our coast is carried to Italy. So God was in our hands, too. Not to mention, after two hours at sea in the Adriatic, all bacteria are dead. The chemical when it's gone, the Juvanils, they're gone. No, and everything else, don't worry that it's such a small concentration that everything that comes to the Adriatic Sea has no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58751	Peace. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58752	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my colleague Yakshi for this very beautiful and picturesque replica or response. However, I do not agree with you in the part of how our sea is completely clean, completely protected from pollution, etc. So we live in the global world in general, and our sea, the global sea. So, he has contact with all the seas of this world, and it's not our luck that our pollution goes to Italy or I don't know where it's like it's not even our luck that someone else's pollution is coming here, and so I support this protocol again with the goal of actually making pollution less, and more health, more life in our and in every other sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58753	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58754	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We all know that the Republic of Croatia is, among other things, a Mediterranean country and as such is focused on the development of the maritime economy, tourism and is committed to protecting and preserving the environment, sea, coast and islands as one of its own, so I would say the greatest values. The Republic of Croatia is a party to the Barcelona Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants adopted in 1976, and in 1995 the Convention was amended and renamed to the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean. The Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants from the Land was adopted in Athens on 17 May 1980 and entered into force in 1983. It was amended and supplemented on 7 March 1996 and was then renamed to the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution from sources and activities on land. The countries signatories of this Protocol, including the Republic of Croatia, recognized the dangers arising from the marine environment, living resources and human health due to pollution from springs and activities on land, and the serious problems that arise for the same reasons in coastal waters and the mouths of the Adriatic River. The priority objective is to protect the environment, and in order to achieve this objective, it should primarily reduce, combat and eliminate the release of dangerous and harmful substances into the environment, substances that are toxic, persistent and prone to bioaccumulation. These amendments and additions to the 1996 Protocol amend and supplement the 1980 Protocol to strengthen cooperation between parties, cooperation on the promotion and exchange of knowledge and experiences in the protection of the environment of the sea, coast and islands, and all in order to use the best available techniques and best procedures for the protection of the Mediterranean Sea. The Contracting Parties to the Protocol undertake to take the necessary measures and activities to eliminate pollution arising from the source and activity on land. This Protocol obliges the Contracting Parties to take the necessary measures, either individually or through bilateral or multilateral cooperation, to remove contaminants resulting from land-based sources and to phase out the introduction of substances that are toxic, persistent and prone to bioaccumulation. We all know what the Adriatic means for the Republic of Croatia. We also know how sensitive and vulnerable this area is and how a man can risk this extremely sensitive space with his carelessness and carelessness. Because, as is said in the text of these amendments and additions to the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea, environmental pressures stemming from human activities in the Mediterranean Sea are growing, especially in the area of industrialisation and urbanisation, as well as in the seasonal increase of coastal populations due to tourism. We know very well how much our coast today is exposed to uncontrolled construction, and the municipal infrastructure does not usually follow such a rapid construction, so let's remember when we discussed the Water Management Strategy on several occasions the participants of the debate pointed to the problem of municipal infrastructure. In this way, in the sea or rivers that are poured into the sea, we release uncleaned or under-cleaned wastewater, which poses a danger to the marine environment, living resources and human health. However, I believe that far greater the problem and the danger of the environment is waste from industry. It is therefore necessary to switch to clean production technologies, to phase out the introduction of substances that are toxic, persistent in the environment or prone to bioaccumulation. In one word, intensity is transitional technologies that do not harm the environment. It's all very well written and imagined, but knowing our Croatian reality, I'm a little skeptical about the application of these provisions in practice. Croatia today makes good laws, signs different conventions, protocols, and on the other hand, the fact is that the Republic of Croatia is a recordr in non-implementation or out of these same laws and provisions. So speaking of clean technologies and the gradual elimination of what is toxic substances, let's remember, I would remind us again of the Salonite case that we've heard different opinions here, depending on whether it comes from the left or right of this assembly. However, the fact is that by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the factory "Salonit" in Vranjic is near Split, it is allowed to reuse asbestos and that is a fact and it is unfortunately our reality. The Parties to this Protocol undertake to draw up and implement national and regional action plans and programmes to retain shall contain measures and deadlines for the application of them. Furthermore, release from toxic sources and release,... the source and release into water or air which reaches and may affect the Mediterranean Sea area is strictly subject to authorisation or regulation by the competent authorities of the parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this purpose, the Party will establish a system of controls to be carried out by the competent authorities in order to assess compliance with the authorisation and regulations. In order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to carry out systematic control of the amount of material, means systematic monitoring which releases the control of their concentration in wastewaters and how they are released. A successful and quality work would require, of course, the equipment of competent institutions that carry out these controls both in terms of staff and in particular with regard to equipment. And now I would look back at the Croatian reality. In paragraph C, paragraph 1 in the category of substances to be used as guidance in the design of programme action plans and measures referred to in point 3 shall indicate organo-sociated compounds and substances which may create such compounds in the marine environment. These compounds include tributyl tin, a compound that is found as an active substance in anti-vegetative colors, meaning in those colors that we coating the bottom of yachts, ships, boats, etc. so as not to accumulate algae and other growths. These compounds are also found in some pesticides and are considered to be tributyl tin to be the most toxic compound brought into the sea by man's activity. As a result, many countries in Europe and the world have completely or partially banned the use of tributyl, i.e. anti-vegetative paints containing tributyl tin as an active component. Croatia not only does it not have legislation to regulate this area, but there is no indication on the basis of which it would conclude the situation of tributyl tin in our Adriatic. No study has been conducted on this issue to determine the zero state because laboratories that should perform these analyses are not adequately equipped. The Institute of Public Health of the Split-Dalmatia County, in collaboration with the Oceanographic Institute in Split, went into the realization of such a project several years ago, but the apparatus at our disposal was inadequate and could not be achieved with the necessary sensitivity. And the purchase of apparatus that would serve for this kind of analysis was, of course, too expensive under the existing Croatian conditions. I just said this example because I wanted in some way to support my claim that if we really want to systematically observe and monitor what is happening in our sea so that these measures that have been mentioned in this Protocol could be successfully realised and implemented we must invest in both the equipment and the staff of the competent institutions, because that is the only way we will have good results and therefore I do not agree with the finding in the opening section where it is said that there will be no, that the implementation of this Protocol will not require additional financial resources. Finally, I would like to stress that I absolutely support the adoption of this law and I want to believe that the Republic of Croatia will have enough sense and political will to systematically implement and implement all these measures in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58755	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58756	You see, fellow Members, it is good that you have noticed that on the legal level of this strategic level, Croatia is fully committed to protecting the Adriatic, the Adriatic coast. This is also the debate over this point today in the Assembly that large differences between HDZ, SDP, HSS, HNS, HSP and other clubs are almost gone. Maybe the intensities here in certain matters are just a little different. But the problem is implementation. You mentioned this example of "The Salonita." We can talk about him, we can talk about "Adrija" society yesterday, she was talked about far more by certain parties. And now that even worse things are trying to spend today on the Adriatic, he's trying to keep quiet about it. The Salonite, a third of the government was involved in giving permission to this continuation of the work of this factory that should not have been built at all during communism, so there is no confusion at all. That's when one crazy decision was made to build it. But today to change the rules on the ban on poison by allowing them, that these products are produced, that there is nowhere to be placed because the ban on selling in Croatia and in the European Union is in force, I think it borders with pure stupidity. And I agree with my colleague Brnadic when he says that no one can say that the terminal should be built in Omislja, no matter what the public says. But that's exactly what Prime Minister Sanader said, so we can read it in the paper. So I'm glad the Prime Minister is also after his unfortunate statement...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58757	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58758	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pancic, I absolutely agree with you that this is actually a topic on which there is no political difference between either side of the assembly. We all agree here, because we know very well what our Adriatic means, we know how much we have at the end of our duty and our obligation to protect it. But exactly what I have said in my debate on several occasions, in some ways I have expressed fear or fear of what it will look like in practice, because we often face good decisions and legal provisions in Croatia. So here I am when you're already talking, you're talking about the Sanolith factory that's kind of a Frisce example and that can be interpreted, this case can be interpreted differently as we see it. The left-hand side says one thing, and the right-hand side says the other, but unfortunately, the fact is no matter what the reasons are, and we heard that the reasons are that these raw materials are being spent, and that's why the government made a decision to continue production, and we know very well how toxic the salon is, how dangerous it is, how difficult it is to break down in the environment, and I think that the recovery from that raw material that it allegedly remained, should have been solved in a different way, rather than re-activated production in this factory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58759	Honorable representative Anton Prusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58760	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry and to say by the way that I understand why the Ministry of Water Economy is subject, or... to the protection of the sea. My colleagues and fellow MPs, of course, welcome, as a representative and as a seaman, the adoption of the emergency procedure of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution from the mainland and that I will vote in favour of the adoption of this law. As this is actually about confirming an international contract, in principle take or leave, more important than the inability to intervene in the text of the Protocol by me, it is more important than that which is intended by signing this Protocol and what is, in fact, the objective of this Protocol, and how to protect the sea from the Mediterranean Sea, which is part of the Adriatic Sea and one closed sea basin. True God is well ventilated and with good change, relatively good change of seawater although it is a closed sea basin, but in time, I hope to see the need to protect the sea from the land's springs in time and to prevent as much as possible the introduction of toxic and hard-to-degradable things into the sea environment and, of course, it should be welcomed and expected to remain not only on the declarative but on the implementing level. The Republic of Croatia, which is particularly worth pointing out, is a member of the MAP, which was adopted in 75th year, which is an action plan in the Mediterranean as part of the United Nations programme and I know from personal experience that our country is making a full contribution to cooperation in the framework of the MAP. The sea, of course, is a receptive of great but not limited possibilities and therefore its protection, but all those living on the shores of a particular area are very important and I agree with my colleague, Tonci Tadic, who, on behalf of the HSP club, said that the countries that are signatories to this protocol should also be known and that it is seen whether the Adriatic is truly systematically protected as a great treasure and that is what I keep trying to talk about. If there is no partial protection, protection must be integrated, can be destroyed only partially and I think that, in addition to pollution coming from ships, which I dared to say as a seafarer, thanks to the action of IMO, international maritime organisation thanks to the activities and Croatia within the IMO, such high standards, such rigorous controls have been introduced, such rigorous regulations have been introduced and, most importantly, the unique application that the wave of pollution from ships is still somehow circulating, we continue to use substandard ships and substandard shipmen, however, every day all less so. You on board know exactly, you have a book of oil, you have a book of feces, you have a book of garbage, you have a book of oiled water, and you have to have material evidence where these wastes ended up from that ship. You must have confirmation of whoever received them for further care. So there is still some sort of pollution. However, I must warn myself of what I was talking about in terms of integrated protection. And at this moment, about 40 million tons of liquid dangerous substances are in the Gulf of Trascan. At present, some 10 million tons of waste ballast, not wastewater, but ballast waters, are poured into the Gulf of Trstian. And we have to, therefore, act unitedly, and that's the answer to some projects that sometimes try to push through or one option is yes, and the other is against it. IMO is also by adopting ASM code, meaning one new chapter of IX. in the international SOLAS Convention, he accurately identified the problem which when it comes to ship pollution, including more and more, more substandard ships and substandard shipmen from the maritime business, and we were in Croatia in the 1990s, I would not like to talk specifically about these examples now, but I will set an example of the ship "Tomislavgrad" and therefore the SDP Club of Representatives, among other things, was in the debate on the Law on coastal line traffic, smoking and cold because we are witnessing what has happened in Croatia in these years of transition. And now that it's specifically land-based pollution, I remember a few months ago we were in this assembly bringing a waste management strategy. The Ministry's report said, and I know it from personal experience, 59% of waste material from the destruction of objects ended where, on the coast of the sea and that's the fact. What's going on with the landing flow from the mainland? Let's start with ourselves. Let's say for the Istrian County, I believe it's... having seen the dangers that occur due to the pollution of the sea from land and in terms of the processing of waste water and their depositing into the sea, so that most of the Istrian cities and municipalities have invested considerable resources precisely in the disposal of these wastewaters and their depositing into the sea. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, I have to be honest and say that this is not the case for the city of Pula, that you have in Pula about 38 direct discharges of sewers into the sea and that Pula port which is about 3 nautical miles long is one big septic pit. And that's the key problem that's bothering the city of Pula and you see, the very phenomenon is nerves. When we were kids in a way we rebelled, we kept pulling out on the hedgehog. Today there are still, fortunately, in Croatia which is proof that the sea is still relatively clean, but not until the end. There's no more hedgehog in Pula's harbor. And something that's actually very important is that, this common concern of protection and action within all the countries that in this particular case live on the Adriatic. For example, pollution from the Po River area. Well, it's a terrible contaminant. You see what happens occasionally, especially before the coming season when there's a slight increase in sea temperature, the blooming of the sea, the mucus and all that's going on. Therefore, the intensity of this Protocol is also that countries report to each other and inform each other of the measures they take to establish joint controls in a way. And finally, to say something, I have the right to my opinion. I've been listening very closely to the debate of my colleague Ante Markov on behalf of the HSS Club. The thing is, when he talked about nautical tourism, yachts, etc. Let us start by saying that in last 2005 about 54 thousand permits were issued to foreign vessels for sailing and living in the coastal sea of Croatia in all port captains and facilities in the Republic of Croatia. It includes those speedboats and small boats, all of which is over three metres, all of which is about 30 percent of those real yachts that I would have identified as a problem in the discussion of fellow Marks. Which reside in certain wild anchors, etc. However, I assure you that there is no problem with them. The problem is in us, in our disorganization and in our system that can't take advantage of what's positive in that. And the problem is in us, and I'm afraid there's no problem in implementing this Protocol that I'm going to vote for when I adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58761	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58762	Your Honor, I'd like a colleague, in fact in most of his discussion, to agree. However, I would like to emphasise how much it takes to sign this and support Croatia as even one of the leading in the region to take care of the protection of the Mediterranean Sea. Because in the case of God, don't let the Po River go with the currents along the Adriatic coast, it would be a disaster. Since the coast along Italy, it has no island, there is no place to keep the pollution that is happening. At our place, if it were stuck on our island, I think it would be a disaster of flora and fauna, not of the hedgehogs. I don't think there'd be any fish, if there were, she'd be drugged. Therefore, I fully support this debate, but I think Croatia should move on, that Croatia should be the leader in the region in terms of protection so that in case the current also needs to turn to protect the Adriatic. It means that we are not just dependent on nature, on God, but on being a human factor that is the most important, most important. For him to be the last obstacle to sea pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58763	Replica reply, Honored Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58764	Well, actually, I thank my colleague Kurt. Indeed, we agree in everything, and in particular we agree on what I said, that the Adriatic needs to be protected in an integrated manner. And of course the Republic of Croatia with more than 6 and a half thousand kilometres of coastal edge with all these natural gifts it deserves to gain and must stand alone for the leading position in protection. And as for the Po River, yes, the negative effects are and I am a witness because there is a shallow sea in the north of the Adriatic along Istria. They have obvious negative effects, but I hope that nature will not turn so much and that, despite the occasional changes in currents, changes in constant currents will not occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58765	Thank you. Dear Representative Marian Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58766	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants from the Land. The Protocol on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution from land is the third Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea since the pollution adopted in 1976 in Barcelona and amended and supplemented in Barcelona in 1995. It was renamed to the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean, which was confirmed by this High House on 27 November 1998. In order to protect and monitor the state of the Mediterranean Sea, as well as the comprehensive planning of development and management of maritime goods, cooperation by the Government of the Mediterranean and the European Union has been encouraged by the approval of the Action Plan in the Mediterranean, which is part of the United Nations Environment Programme. The Barcelona Convention and the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean are particularly important for the Republic of Croatia, which, as a Mediterranean state, implements environmental, sea, coast and island protection as part of a common regional strategy for the protection of the Mediterranean. The Republic of Croatia recognised the dangers arising from the marine environment, the plant and animal world and human health due to the pollution of activities on land, and the serious problems arising primarily from the uncleaned and under-cleaned release from households and industry. The importance of clean Mediterranean and clean Adriatic Sea should not be particularly elaborated here. Certainly this Protocol should be supported because, without the protection of not only Croatia but also other Mediterranean countries included through this Protocol, there is no clear Mediterranean Sea or our Adriatic. The aim of this Protocol is, therefore, to encourage cooperation on a joint project to protect the Mediterranean Sea and to protect the environment, sea, coast, islands through reductions, suppressing and eliminating the release of dangerous and harmful substances. Here I will give an example of the Gulf of Kastelan, which before World War II was a well-known tourist destination, which was devastated by the unreasonable socialist economy by the chemical and heavy industry. The Eco Kaštelan Bay project, where huge resources are invested, will finally solve this problem, and I hope that the Kaštelan Riviera will then be at the side of the largest tourist destinations on the Adriatic. Unfortunately, we will never be able to restore the state that in the ecological sense was once, but at least we can stop the pollution and fix what you fix that. This must be a reminder to those who today advocate some unreasonable projects that pose a potential ecological danger to our Adriatic like the "Adriatic Society" project and similar. Dear colleagues and colleagues, tourism, fishing, mariculture, the beauty of life on the najm na moru has no alternative. This is what we need and must be jealous of because it is the most valuable thing that Croatia has. The implementation of this Act will not require additional financial resources from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The financing of the activities listed in the amendments to the Protocol will be carried out by means of compensation protection of water collected by Croatian waters and the implementation of activities under this Act is in line with the State Water Protection Plan. Finally, I believe that the Protocol on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea of pollution from the mainland is a major contribution to the clean Mediterranean and the Adriatic, and I welcome and support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58767	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58768	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to intonate my exposure significantly differently than it's been said here so far. Namely, I will deal with more protocol itself, and less with the Adriatic and examples of Adriatic pollution. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, the intervention of words. Look at this House. I don't think in these two years we've turned down any international agreements, not one international protocol, we've accepted them all. So that's not controversial. This Protocol is not disputed either. It is a dispute, however, that after that, it is controversial. Namely, I am grateful to Mr. Shakespeare who called me about a year and a half ago and asked me to go to Kyoja for a meeting, and I don't know if you remember it, because there was this particular matter that was being discussed there, and I went away, prepared myself, exposed myself, and I'm going to pass on the experience of it together to see what I came up for, and what was the purpose of my intervention. In fact, Mr. Peru said that we can't do much here, we can accept or not accept the Protocol, we can't intervene. It's not like that. I want to say here where we are when it intervenes, and I assure you every international agreement, each protocol is updated every few years, amended, complemented. This is the problem of Croatian politics when discussing programmes, plans then most often we are not there or if we are silent there, we do not intervene on this text, we do not defend Croatia's interests as we should, but we should strongly defend them. It happened both in Kyoji and in many other places. Look, I would therefore very much like to have, along with this Protocol, which we will adopt 20 conclusions, this, this, this and the one with which a future member of the Government, the representative of our Committee or anyone else will go to the Mediterranean Action Plan for the next meeting and defend clearly the views of this Parliament and this country within which we are giving it. Unfortunately, that almost never happens. What happened in Kyoji colleagues and colleagues? So there was a little bit of a broader theme of pollution in the Adriatic, but also of fishing and a few more sub-topics. The meeting lasted two days. On the first day, the Italians, their parliamentarians, represented countless examples of Adriatic pollution, but what examples? Only from the eastern coast of the Adriatic. The Gulf of Kaštelan, Omisalj, the tuna grower, all of what they wanted clearly to direct the media's attention, not to discuss their sins in this story. I followed them closely the first day and then I answered at the beginning of the second day and I said that certainly for all the data we heard the previous day, and in connection with... Fish in the past 20, 30 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely we cannot blame the Albanian fishing fleet for that. For those acids that destroy forests in Slovenia and our Gorski kotar, we cannot blame and should not blame the Montenegrin industry. I was ironic and mean. To pollute the Adriatic with wastewater, we can sort of load our cities, but we've done a good part of the work on cleaning these waters, we need to start thinking about some other sources of pollution. He defended me very strongly, and with me stood the State Secretary of Environmental Protection of Slovenia, very correctly and then everything turned in a completely different direction. My colleagues and colleagues in the Mediterranean action plan we have received this data one of the models to reduce and polluting the Adriatic is to reduce all those on the Adriatic in a certain number of years the pollution of the Adriatic by 50%. My colleagues and colleagues, what does that mean? If there is a harmful concentration of 20, and at this point the Italians are contaminating 200, they will reduce their pollution from 200 to 100. They are still 5 times above the border that damages the Adriatic clearly and damages the Adriatic. Albanians will have to reduce from 8 units to 4, Croats from 12 to 6. Is this the logic of reducing the protection, or pollution of the Adriatic? That's not a good logic. It is accepted, but where were my representatives of my country when it was debated? Why wasn't there any subversives? Why wasn't there any relief? We know that one of the key moments in the negotiations with the European Union will be precisely the ecology and the fulfilment of environmental standards where we will surely seek maximum extension of the deadlines, and when we are discussing protocols, when we are discussing such frameworks, then we are nowhere to be discussed. Therefore, my message of clear conclusions, we send competent people, we send people who know foreign languages and who truly and actively defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58769	Thank you. Club IDS, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58770	Dear Mr. President, here I have answered your question because you have taken away the word of the president of the club IDS in your own way, interpreting, of course, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as it suits you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58771	We cannot comment on this because the chairman's decision is not being commented or discussed, according to the Rules of Procedure. I have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you and the Rules of Procedure shall continue their 5-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58772	Here I am presenting on behalf of the IDS Club a brief and clear position on the point of this agenda, which is that the greatest contribution to the vote of this Protocol is actually the destruction of the entire industry along the Adriatic coast since the beginning of the 1990s by HDZ governments. To be cynical, I could say less jobs but more pure Adriatic. As far as the IDS Club is concerned, we have asked for two years in a row for an item to be entered into the Ministry of Environmental Protection to create a project to protect the Adriatic Sea from submerged ships, planes, but of course our amendments were rejected on this subject. We do not agree that the implementation of this protocol does not require additional funds because we must be prepared to adapt our lives to preserve space for the next generations at least as beautiful biological and culturally diverse as our ancestors have left us. The numbers don't tell us about it. The threat of the environment and sustainable development has been addressed at the level of the United Nations for 30 years, and almost as much at the level of the Mediterranean. Nevertheless, environmental and poverty degradation has never been as alarming as it is today. Small improvements were not enough and there was no political will for major moves. But to us, the Adriatic is the only sea, and if we leave to it the success of political negotiations at global level, key decisions can come too late. Can we, from the point of view of the risk to our children, wait calmly for the outcome of the negotiations and allow the current trends to continue? Hoping for this, however, there will be no irreparable Adriatic devastation, because the figures are currently talking about the deteriorations, and it is unlikely that our closed sea will already become seven times more polluted than the Mediterranean average that we want to remember. Whatever the alarming data is, I think we need to harness all our strengths and protect our Adriatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58773	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Final proposal for a law to confirm amendments to the Protocol on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution from the mainland. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 110 votes to pass the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58776	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! When I listened to the Minister of Economy here in the last current hour when, on the basis of the issues clearly asked, the media said that the situation in the economy turned out to be actually running between honey and milk for craftsmen. However, whether this is the situation in this sector is probably best known to those who earn their daily bread, as we have known in Croatia for decades. However, what is the situation we can partly see if we visit the Ministry of Economy's website and look at projects that are mainly designed to take incentive measures for craftsmen to be open this year and whether they can run for some form of support or incentives. No, on the Internet site today, projects for last year are said to be completed and will likely be announced during the year. This means obviously since the first quarter is near the end some form of support will be able to be obtained by half this year or possibly by the end of the year and those craftsmen that are often full of mouths and here in the Parliament should work their plan for this year. We at the HSS Club believe that Croatian craftsmen should be supported just as much as they deserve, and therefore we have sent several proposals for action in the parliamentary procedure. Among other things, we have also referred to the urgent process of amending the Water Contribution Regulation because we believe that the Government should not adopt a regulation with a weight stronger than the law, so that it should not add up to the square of the apartment and the production plant. And it happened that they had suspended all construction within 30 days because they were awaiting the Prime Minister's proposal whether to withdraw the 30-day test period after that. I don't know what we actually have to test for 30 days except one bad proposal where we stopped the good situation in that sector. I would also like Croatian craftsmen to join the committees through the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, for example for the economy. It is funny to say that they are not on board and even in this most important for them and of the twenty-five different bodies that we have here in the Assembly Croatian craftsmen are only in one body. We would also like to change the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods and to remove the monumental rent from 10 kuna per square metre to three times the amount and would like to free those who operate in areas of special state care in mountainous areas from this new and unnecessary burden. We would like to amend the Road Transport Act to enable those who have vehicles over the age of 18 to be able to use them for line transport and those who have vehicles slightly older than ten years that they can also drive persons in transport. They would like to equalise the rights of mothers craftsmen and the rights of mothers who work in trade societies and who work in institutions through amendments to the Law on childbirth. It is completely inexplicable that these rights do not have mothers craftsmen and mothers working in companies. We'd like those rights to be even and there's no reason not to. We would like mothers to trade and consume maternity leave for up to three years because there is one provision that they can consume but at the same time cannot close the crafts or put the crafts on hold or cannot consume during that three-year period of health insurance, health care and the right to pension and disability insurance. Here, these are just some of the problems I wanted to count here. For an introduction, let me point out how important it is that we change the profit tax law that came here today. However, I would also like to say that we referred him to an emergency procedure on December 6th. Here's how long it took us to discuss a law that's unusually important for craftsmen. This law states that a craftsman, or a natural person who makes a income if he skips one of the above criteria, must change the system. It comes from the Income Tax Act. However, these criteria are extremely low. A craftsman, if he has revenues greater than 2 million kuna in one year, can move to another law. If he made more than 400,000 kuna income in one year, he must also move from the Income Tax Act to the Profit Tax Act. If it has a long-term asset that costs more or is worth more than 2 million kunas it must also move into a different and more complex system. And if he hires more than 15 workers in one year, he also has to do it. In a similar way, we can explain from only one segment what it's called construction what it looks like for craftsmen. If it buys one miller or medium value truck when it gets a job, it's about EUR 300 thousand or it automatically skips the value of 2 million kuna property and has to go to another system. If this same craftsman builds a house in Zagreb of 153 metres square at a price we know of about 1800 EUR, he must move to the category of winners. Will they ever be able to arrange this kind of construction again? It's the craftsman's problem. However, he can no longer return to a system that is more favourable to him and must remain in the profit system. At the same time, the legislator or the competent ministry of that Regulation and the regulation to be adopted shall not adopt any legislation. I'll remind you a few times I've already said that here in the Parliament the rules on the flat-rate taxation of craftsmen under the law the Ministry was supposed to bring over more than three years ago. There's no such rule today, but there's no excuse to have remeners, fires, razors on an island or in a mountainous area that cut people's hairs there and it's actually more necessary to reward what they're doing, not make them run books so we don't tax them on a flat-rate basis. But there's a law that doesn't apply, and we don't have that rulebook for three years. So we'd like through the amendments to the law to increase the criteria for the transition of so-called income craftsmen to the winners. In this way, the number of craftsmen would be significantly reduced if we increased the criteria we would have to go over in the profit tax system. This law is proposed for the reason that for craftsmen, profit taxation imposes a much more expensive way of keeping books; so on. double accounting. The little craftsman doesn't know I'm running those books. So these are the increased expenditures imposed on him for which there is no economic justification because they do not in any way contribute to the increase in receipts. This applies in particular to certain activities such as trade and construction because these are activities in which major traffic is carried out, but also costs and the income achieved in the total income is actually low. It is also proposed to postpone the application of this provision so that craftsmen to whom it relates may adapt their business within the appropriate time limit. So those who skip the criteria will have to go back to the Profit Tax Act to put them on for a while longer to adjust. By accepting this law, we would relieve small entrepreneurs and allow them to operate more profitablely, and I think it is ultimately of interest both to them for survival and to the state for better tax collection. I'm absolutely sure this will bring a better tax collection. In particular, they would like to point out the number of craftsmen who, according to the assessment of the regional crafts chambers and finally according to the data of tax administrations under the applicable law, would be obliged to move from the income system to the profit system. Their number is 4000 766. We can round up to five thousand people we're forcing to completely unnecessarily change the system. We give them great limitations. We're giving them big expenses. Finally, the accountant needs to be paid. For the double system of bookkeepers, it costs at least a thousand kuna per month if it tracks a craftsman, and in the income tax system, a craftsman can book books alone or bookkeeping the wages of only 100th, 200 kuna. We believe that this provision of the law should apply from 1 January 2000, in a way that changes the conditions under which the craftsman who made the income from the crafts but also with the craftsman from... the activities of becoming a taxpayer of profit tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The conditions are changed in a way that raises the border to cross and increases from 2 million to 4 million kuna of total income. We believe that this is an appropriate data, 4 million kuna and not "God knows what" big income and that is the limit that is well set at this point. We would like to increase the value of long-term assets from 2 million kuna to 4 million kuna, and we would like to increase the number of employees from 15 to 25 workers and ultimately want to increase the income from 400 thousand kuna to 500 thousand kuna in one year. In this way, small craftsmen would be allowed, according to their own business decision, to remain in the income payment system or to move into the profit system. For many small craftsmen, the cost of running double accounting is disproportionate to the income achieved and additionally burden their business. I point out, in fact, that this is about 5,000 people who are anxiously waiting for us to have a debate in the House for several months now, and I assure you that they expect us to just bring amendments to the law this way. Let's set up a little bit more than the provisions that are here in Article 2 and allow them to work normally. I'd just like to remind you of another important detail that's different so-called. They have come from those who have won. Incomes when invoiced pay taxes, which is only in crafts to pay VAT at the time of collection of invoices. Here, when they turn into taxpayers, the tax is paid as standard for companies at the time of creation of the invoice. Such a change within a relatively short period of time, of course, will also cause the need for greater trade capital to be made in order to make this adjustment because the legislator says it is necessary to make a transitional period which, unfortunately, is too short. So at the beginning of the year the craft must already enter all accounts relating to business and one-time actually account, and pay VAT and, of course, all invoices further in this way invoice. This is what happens at this time when very liquidity is not the best quality in Croatia. We're tracking data that in FINA, it's increasing, and all of these changes that are proposed go a little easier on the life of craftsmen. I assure you they deserve it. Croatian craftsmen, according to the Trade Register, have 106637 and they employ 149912 workers. So 250,000 people work in this sector and he deserves special attention. It also deserves to enable them in this process of joining the European Union to give a special support to the most sensitive sector. They are known to be the most exposed to competition. They are threatened not only by the threat of stagnation, but by the threat of shutting down their activities and losing their jobs as it has happened in some countries that have passed the same process. We know the information and it probably wouldn't be good if it happened to craftsmen in Croatia, and it will happen, of course, if through this set of laws and others that we should not help. That is why it is precisely necessary to work immediately to create an incentive legislative framework and measures that will allow this sector to develop further. As one of the small steps is to just refer to the procedure and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act. I hope all this stuff that I've been saying is enough arguments to make me change the law like this and accept it because, of course, craftsmen expect it from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58777	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58778	Thank you very much. Well, in a number of incorrect allegations, I would like to correct one that several times repeated by a respected colleague, Pecek, when Croatian craftsmen say they expect us to change the law like this. It is simply not true because they expected such an amendment to the law at the time when he was the minister of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58779	The other one. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58780	Mr. President, my colleague Pacek said that the criteria for moving from tax to income tax are extremely low. This is simply not true, because the income totalling 2 million kuna, capital over 2 million kuna, the number of employees 15 and the income of 400000 kuna in the previous period is an indication that it is a significant entrepreneur mainly if we compose this with the obligation of the owners of companies that are with only basic capital of 20,000 kuna and with much less traffic and business activity are obliged to keep business books under the dual accounting system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58781	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget. President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, respected representative of Šima Prtenjača. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58782	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the board's position on this subject. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 47th session held on 8 February 2006. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the HSS by an act of 6 December 2005. The financial and state budget of the Croatian Parliament shall be based on its competence as set out in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as a home working body and the introduction of the proposer pointed out that with this Bill, it proposed to increase the criteria for the transition from the income tax system, the taxation system of the income tax, and this increased the limit from 2 million kuna to 4 million kunas of total income, i.e. 2 million kunas to 4 million kunas of the value of long-term assets, i.e. 15 per 25 employees, i.e. EUR 400000 per person's income. That proposal would free small craftsmen from significantly expensive dual accounting management that imposes taxation on them in the profit tax system. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament also discussed the written opinion of the Croatian Government, which in the Croatian Parliament suggested not to accept the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Profit Tax proposed by the Association of Representatives of the HSS. The Committee also held that the opinion that small craftsmen will be helped more than the proposed amendments to the law in question if, under the applicable Income Tax Act, the introduction of flat-rate taxation for small craftsmen is prescribed under the law. In this way, the state would collect more taxes and small craftsmen would be made easier by business. In the discussion on the board, an opinion supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's view stressed that it was not necessary to change the value of the transition from the income tax system to the tax system of income tax prescribed by the applicable law. It is, in fact, economically significant entrepreneurs who need to be carefully and transparently accounted for in order to avoid possible abuses in the display of a real tax base. In addition, it is about values that far exceed the conditions for the establishment of a company that automatically requires the establishment of a tax base based on dual accounting. Following the debate on the draft law in question, two committee members voted, while 6 members were against it. Therefore, the Committee on Finance, the state budget of the Croatian Parliament, decided to propose the following conclusion. The proposal for an amending and supplementing law on profit tax proposed by the HSS Representatives' Club is not adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58783	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58784	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me on behalf of the club of HSS, first of all a few introductory words about the tax system of the Republic of Croatia, as it is, which it lacks and whether it is fully consistent with the needs, first of all citizens then of course the state budget. First of all, I have to say that our system is definitely burdened by some weaknesses. First of all, the main weakness of our tax system is that it is not evenly distributed. But not the very structure of tax revenues is somewhat deviating from those in modern countries. Most of the tax and tax burdens, unfortunately, are on the burden of the poorer layers of this society that bear the greatest burden and the greatest burden. What is not good in the tax income structure is, of course, the fact that most of the tax revenue is taxed on VAT and excise duties. Of course, it's not good, but it's a fact. The fact that he's saying one more thing, which is that the main echo of collecting tax revenues is focused on export components. Which, of course, is not good and immediately generates a major threat to Croatia, which is that the participation of the internal Croatian economy is relatively small, if we look at these tax revenues as well. Of course in the last few years, I think since 2004, there have been several novels, changes in profit taxes, income taxes, but the system is still extremely complicated, not transparent enough and clear enough. And of course, every tax system of all countries must be simple, clear and understandable, both for a citizen who is a taxpayer in order to know how to rule and behave, and also to pay taxes, and for a country that is obliged to collect that tax because that complexity also brings her into an unpleasant situation. Should I examine, in principle, the untaxable part of the income? Do you need to modify classes and rates? Of course I do. Whether other revenues should be included in the basics, such as interest revenues that are not included today. Of course, because he's on the verge of equating that we all pay the same tax. Of course, interest incomes are the only ones who have money. Those who don't have their interest income, they pay interest on their loans. Of course, all of this says that in Croatia, we all need to prepare together a major tax reform that needs to be evened, adapted to the needs of society, socially renewed and included as soon as possible in the mandatory tax structure. Of course, in the context of returning this bill that the HSS Club has submitted, he is very understandable. So I will try to present it in a very simple and understandable language. The fact is that craftsmanship is the most tough part of the structure of the Croatian economy. In almost the worst circumstances, in war circumstances, in circumstances where they were almost not "desirable", under quotes, when they were almost called relapses, then craftsmen and just as they liked to say so in public, live from their work showed that despite adverse treatment and poor relationship they were not only able to survive but in all the strategies of the modern projection of the Croatian economy craftsmanship, little entrepreneurship is at the very top of those of whom something is expected. With the right, yes, with the right because of the experience of some countries, especially Italy, not specifically in the field of craftsmanship, but in the field of cooperativeism, it is precisely that such structures in complex market circumstances, in conditions in which all market mechanisms are not fully developed, under conditions where globalisation is dangerously taking up positions both in the smallest and most uninteresting areas of each country, and so on, Croatia. In conditions where globalisation simply covers the space of the common market with its institutions. It is this structure, this segment of craftsmanship, small entrepreneurship or cooperative society that gives and receives the most significant results. What are the preconditions that crafting in Croatia can develop sufficiently, that it can achieve that structure of its own production and the number of jobs and the total income that we expect? Well, first of all, we need to change the role and place of craftsmanship and similar occupations. This is one of the legal proposals that is necessary, necessary and without which craftsmen will come into a very difficult position. In fact, leading the double bookkeeping of gentlemen about a family that is not even verifiable to deal with the conduct of dual accounting is not only a burden of financial gentlemen, but sometimes an insurmountable operational problem. Why? Well, because you can't just find someone who can run that double bookkeeping because you don't have enough resources, and lately, because of the great globalisation, those who know they're working for the big ones anyway. And the big one always eats the little one in the end. And craftsmanship is, if something is a synonym of Croatian economic identity, and it has always been mentioned everywhere lately, then craftsmanship is just a synonym, the last barricade on which it defends Croatian economic identity. And the craftsmanship and our tradition and all the things that we mention in our eyes when we talk about some national values will disappear gentlemen if we don't help him. It will disappear if we do not understand a small craftsman who has a family and neighbor who employs 5, 6 or 10 people if we force him to do the limit prescribed by the existing law, he must begin to run double accounting because he must move from income to profits. Why? There's one key to us and a fundamental question. Could the Ministry of Finance be able to tell us clearly and unequivocally about the tax revenues that are happening through the transition, or what would happen to raise this censorship and keep it in the position it was in? Nothing. Except we're separating him, except we're burdening him, except we're bringing him into a nervous breakdown because he doesn't know how to solve this empty paperwork, and in terms of separation, that amount of money he has to pay to the state nothing would happen. And now if that's what we're doing, why we're doing it. Why don't we just admit that there's no need and that we'll raise as much money as we can if we accept a simple way of calculating that it stays within income, that we'll raise more money and on the other hand we'll give encouragement to all the others who will be able to deal with it right away. But of course, this will not solve all the problems in the craft, but it will give a good indication how and in what way can and must the torments of those who work with their own hands of those who do not stand the great conglomerates, those who, regardless of the banks in Croatia are stable, good and strong, have to wait in front of them as beggars, those for whom no one has a phone call to receive them, those who get up in the morning and have to make sure that they have money to pay their commitments, because they have to pay their own obligations, they have to sit at the expense of them, the least suppliers waiting for them, and the least state tolerates them. So I'm talking about people who are trying to survive and survive in this and this global world, and they're often the bearers of those crafts, they're often the bearers of those activities that just disappear. Who simply die out to return in another form so that they can have the same tools or these same products again, but no longer wear the term "Croatian", they can no longer buy in such a form and they are simply and not. All but a serious country, all the countries that hold to themselves and to their dignity are right now standing up and fighting for these structures of our citizens. Because these structures of our citizens have been there, they will remain and they are witnesses and they are the strongest levers precisely for the Europe that we are going to, a Europe that we must not fear, a Europe that neither fears us but neither do we. But in order to stand up to something, there's no war on weapons, there's war on knowledge, but there's war on tradition, there's war on tradition, there's war on its own, there's war on its own, there's war on its own, there's war on its own, there's war on trade and everywhere. If at that level, if we don't build our own consciousness and our own self-awareness that we have to this government will just show that it holds up to this kind of important thing regardless of what the opposition club proposes this law, this government should absolutely show today a step that is expected of this government, and what's good to say is that it's good even if it's proposed by another club, we will support it or as far as the HSS Club is concerned, you can give the same law and this same reasoning, you can simply change the relationships that the craftsmen are looking for and tell the gentlemen we'll change it. We will also be satisfied because we will all do together what is expected of us, which is that by example we must show our citizens that, apart from being parties, we have differences, that, apart from being divided into positions and opposition, we have understanding and we have our own overall responsibility for the most important segment, which is the development of craftsmanship, this is the development of those activities where modern Croatia will rest just as gentlemen as Croatia that fought with craftsmanship in other circumstances and in another system. Therefore, I think it would be good for our own sake, but also for the example of the European Union that we will be able to react to all those positions that are not in line with our Croatian interests. If we give such examples as Parliament and they are a reflection of our strength and desire to rise up once from the narrow political benches and talk seriously, responsibly and in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then we will be able to reach exceptions through negotiations, the same ones that Malta, Poland and other countries have come to. Then we'll have the strength to say our properties will be in the system of exceptions like those of Malta. Our agricultural land will not go for sale and privatisation but will be protected by an exemption institute like in Poland, then we will create those reliefs that the Croatian economy needs in order for gentlemen to compete equally in the European match. The European game can go now, but it will be played by third-party players from Croatia and first-class players from the European Union. We also want to give this law a boost to those who need encouragement the most, and these are Croatian craftsmen. I therefore invite you all together to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58785	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58786	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In his debate, the esteemed colleague, Markov, stated that craftsmen are heavily burdened with the cost of running double accounting, which is absolutely incorrect, as the predecessor here explained that the total cost of running double accounting is a thousand kunas per month, and these gentlemen discussed here, which account for only 3.5% of the number of craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia. So, Mr. Markov, you take care of 3.5% of craftsmen, and all the rest of them are ignored.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58787	Second Amendment Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58788	Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Markov's claim that double accounting is an insurmountable operational problem for craftsmen. Now, when you and me are broken down, then we have an insurmountable operational problem, but that problem solves a mechanic. Likewise, when an auto mechanic appears to be an insurmountable operational problem of bookkeeping, he then hires an accountant or an accounting service.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58789	And respected representative Nevenka Majdenić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58790	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representative Markov said that double accounting is a burden for small entrepreneurs. That is not true because small craftsmen, therefore, those who deal with small crafts, therefore, repairs, smaller services or smaller production will continue to use simple records. Therefore, double accounting will be used only by those who, in the previous tax period, have achieved a total income of more than 2 million kuna income, 400 thousand, who have a long-term asset greater than 2 million kuna and, therefore, employ more than 15 workers. I don't think it's good to scare our craftsmen with double bookkeeping. On the contrary, the cost of double accounting is negligible compared to the benefits of dual accounting. So the craftsman at all times has a review of his income, his invoices, has therefore the state of his property and it enables him to conduct a more quality business in terms of and its development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58791	Thank you. Proposer, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58792	Thank you very much. I would like to resolve this dilemma as soon as possible because apparently, colleague Majdenic, who has a salary of 15 thousand kunas, does not understand what a thousand kunas mean. Mrs Majdenic, a thousand kuna is for a craftsman money to the sky every month when he has to pay only bookkeeping services, plus all these other charges that are ahead of him. And you have to understand that 99% of craftsmen struggle to survive from month to month, and possibly 1% of them have Mercedes or a similar car. That's the state of craftsmanship, and I wouldn't want us to talk politically here, to speak politically here, but I'd like to talk about the state it is. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Dance here, he's a craftsman. Did he consult his crafts chamber on the amendments to this Law? Well, of course the Chamber of crafts has accepted these changes to the law and is asking us to adopt it here in the Parliament because it recognized the needs of craftsmen. However, do not speak politically. Go along with me, Mrs Majdenic, I will take you to those craftsmen who cannot keep books because they are not trained for accounting but to produce. I'll ask them together what a thousand kunas mean to them. It means nothing to you, it's money to them, it's money to the sky, I assure you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58793	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58794	Mr. President, my colleague Pecek has again listed as his previous colleague as being a thousand kunas of huge money. I agree, that's not an exact quote, but I agree it's a big money for those 142 thousand craftsmen. However, for these 4 thousand 776 who make traffic more than 2 million kuna and earn income greater than 400 thousand kuna, please, it is 0.05 promila. And that's nothing. That's how much these gentlemen spend in a bar on the syringes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58795	Second correction, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58796	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Pacek said I speak politically. And that's not what I'm saying politically about the state of entrepreneurship because the information that's been presented in this bill says this. The promoter says 4000 766 craftsmen must move to a profit tax system under the existing law. And I think that's a really nice piece of information because that means that they've achieved an income greater than $400,000 or another one of those criteria. Therefore, they have become significant businessmen, and this is positive in our entrepreneurship. It can't be said that there's a bad climate in entrepreneurship. Besides, I still think it's double, I didn't say it was, I didn't mention a thousand kuna at all. I said that the cost paid for double accounting is negligible compared to the advantages that this system offers. And that's what I stand for. I'm an economist and I can prove it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58797	HNS Club, Honorable Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58798	Thank you, Mr. President. In any case, the HNS Club will support this HSS proposal, the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act for the simple reason that we look at this craftsmanship the way we usually look only when we take pictures on TV or when tourists come to us and when we talk about it only declaratively so that craftsmanship should be protected and we talk about old crafts, so we show it to tourists at various events. And we boast about how we have it and how we take care of it. But when we remember that report that we had a few weeks or a month ago, the HAMAG report, when we saw how much the agency that needs to take care of helping small entrepreneurs, how much it actually gave a guarantee, then we see that the environment in which these craftsmen work is very bad. And this story about whether he should have dual accounting or not should have dual accounting and talk about whether he should be a craftsman or run bookkeeping as a company and whether he registered as a craftsman or as a company, he himself, by entering a craftsman, determined in which way he wants to keep books and how he wants to do business. We put these limits into something far before it should. We've prescribed that total receipt of more than 2 million kuna. Income of 400 thousand kuna, value of long-term assets on 2 million kuna and 15 workers. I wonder why such limitations, why not these other limits? Why not keep those 3,000 by one account or a thousand 200 per second account of craftsmen’s accounts, and why should they have additional costs to run double accounting? The craftsmen chose the way they wanted to work by entering the craftsmen. If they wanted to be companies, then they'd give 20 thousand kunas and do business that way and they wouldn't go to crafts. And when it comes to some kind of help, and even in so few people that are covered by this law, we don't allow it to happen in Croatia, even if we see where the craftsmen are working, I would like the government to come up with the supplement of this bill, and if we solve it like we did yesterday in sports when the state took over all those losses of sports clubs, so that we also take over the losses that they eventually made so that we can turn those losses into stakes and then turn it all over to local self-government and that local self-government, so here's how we save 400,... sports employees or wealthy sports workers, so let's try and get the state to intervene in this bill and save it in the same way as saving sports tycoons, so save these little craftsmen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HNS club will in any case support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58799	Thank you. HDZ Club, the respected representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58800	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, would like to make clear very briefly with a few arguments why we do not support this proposal. There is no need to enter the history of craftsmanship and show their situation in previous decades except for the finding that the laws that have already been passed have been significantly improved in this area. The proposal proposed here also does not need to repeat almost so on average it is a double increase in the limits needed to move from income to profits. Also to explain that each other can serve for our bickering, but not to help solve this problem. The reasons that are stated here are mainly here and through discussions are mainly highlighted in the problem of bookkeeping. It seems that knowledge is at least paid in this country, so we might as well figure it out here. What needs to be paid, what needs to be done in accordance with existing laws should be managed and harmonised, no one forbids anyone to organise in any other way, but the current state of bookkeeping is not an obstacle to the development of craftsmanship. If we were to comment on the same reasons about the number, perhaps those that would in this way, because we can't take everything under a few or hundreds, or if you want thousands of those who barely survive and total craftsmanship, we come to a completely wrong conclusion. Here it is proposed that by accepting this kind of change, only two, three reasons, or two, three arguments. If we accept that from the data I received from the Chamber of crafts for the last time in the debate, so please if there are any deviations around 106 thousand we have heard 600 and something more than 106 thousand craftsmen if we apply these criteria that now suggest everything about a thousand would go to that other border. Therefore, for whom, in fact, we bring such a regulation into the crowd. Likewise, to far exceed the fundamental role of such a sense, we are also asking questions that are actually the reason, and for which group of people, or craftsmen, do we do that? The reasons for adopting this are also seen in possible, i.e. it is explained in the possible improvement of status and I would say this in part with the change of legislation. We at the HDZ Club think that this is unnecessary for two of the following reasons. The first that this year's budget already established the conditions of business, as well as the tax regulations. We also accepted a projection here for 2007 and 2008 as well as guidelines for macroeconomic and fiscal policy and any incursion in individual, detailed procedures in this part would be partial and would not give results that we would like to achieve. However, we are absolutely from the HDZ Club and the Government already making certain preparations, and we believe that it is necessary to enter into tax reform and that tax reform cannot be implemented through individual partial procedures. This tax reform must provide both the possibility and the same or similar conditions of faster and better business and market conditions in the Croatian state. In the end, I can only conclude that in our society, probably the highest income on taxes and contributions is paid only by employees of employment, and everyone else seems to be social cases that we at the HDZ Club cannot agree with. Therefore, we cannot accept such a partial proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58801	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58802	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Collaterals of this Act, of course, within the framework of the reasoning of the proposal itself, which was used by one narrow segment, which is, of course, the right and encouraged a number of issues related to the system of operation of craftsmanship and, of course, is one of the topics which deserve both the whole debate and the overall solution and, that is, the possible improvement of the status of craftsmen. But I will briefly remain on this concrete proposal for a Law amending the Tax on Profits Act, which is now governed by that law. According to the existing law, all companies and entrepreneurs and natural persons who generate income from crafts and with a turnover of equal activities, if they meet one of the prescribed conditions, are therefore obliged to apply a profit tax system. These conditions are now already said several times here, I will repeat them, one of these conditions should be met, so the total receipts during the previous accounting period of 2 million kuna, the income achieved in the previous period above 400 thousand kuna, if the long-term assets are also worth more than 2 million kuna, or if, on average, in the previous period, they employ 15, or more than 15 employees, then they are obliged to apply the tax system on profits and is obliged to run so on. double accounting. This Law proposes increasing these criteria and thus increasing the income from 2 to 4 million kunas of total capital from 2 to 4 million kunas, the number of employees to be more than 25 million kunas and the total income achieved in the previous period if there are more than 500 000 kunas, with the taxpayer to switch to the taxation system by applying the profit tax system to meet at least two of these criteria. This proposal was also discussed by the Government. He also discussed the parent board, which is the Committee on Budgets and Finance, and as the Honorable colleague of the Club said on behalf of me, I adhere to those who believe that this law should not be amended for two fundamental reasons. The first is the reason, and I have already mentioned it in one of my corrections of the quotes that I consider to be about significant entrepreneurs who have both significant economic potential and who are also achieving significant business effects, and, in particular, by comparing it once more with companies. It is necessary to know that the company is therefore established with a minimum of 20 thousand kunas of underlying capital and regardless of the business activity that the owner or the company owns does not have to be 2 million kuna, let it also be 100 thousand kuna during one accounting period. He is obliged to keep business books, he is obliged to apply the dual accounting system and to belong to that category of taxpayer. And the next reason I don't think we should change it either is because these censors seem to be suitable for our terms. It is a matter of economic importance for entrepreneurs, and it is certainly a reason and obligation for them to establish a tax base with accurate and transparent accounts of their business outcome. And all those small craftsmen, small entrepreneurs we like to mention so often, such as those dealing with petty repairs, small services or small production, and under the existing law of their business books, can be guided by the application of so-called. simple bookkeeping. In fact, this is a accounting system based on the principle of the cash register, which means that the cost is only what was paid and the receipt is only what was charged during the accounting period and such a system, we will agree, however, not to provide for the establishment of a real business result and thus tax bases which is certainly necessary for one normal functioning and the system of a regulated state. So I conclude by saying once again that I think that the existing system of taxation and enabling smaller craftsmen, so those who meet these conditions are less than 2 million kunas of total traffic during the year, less income from 400 thousand kunas to 15 employees that they can still remain in the system of simple accounting and that this is something that is suitable for our terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58803	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58804	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished secretary of state! There are already several discussions that highlight the criteria that have been laid down by law for craftsmen to be in a tax system either per income or per profit. The colleagues of the HSS Club are now proposing that these criteria increase 100% in favour of craftsmen carrying out the activity, so let's say that they, that they rise from 2 million to 4 million in total revenue or that they also increase the limit from 2 million to 4 million in value of long-term assets, or from 15 to 20 employees, or income from 400 thousand kuna to 500 thousand kuna. I must point out that the truth is only done according to the data provided by the Proposer of 4000 766 craftsmen who are in the income tax system that 102 thousand craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia are not in that system. The only argument that is stated here is that, here are the great costs of bookkeeping, and even in the debates so far, it has been shown that in fact these costs of running double accounting are, in relation to the income achieved and the traffic actually achieved, measures in the gaps rather than in the percentages or in some large amounts. Our colleague Markov invited us to take care of these people's social status. I absolutely agree that we take care of the social status of those 102 thousand of our Croatian craftsmen who work and carry out their duties with honor. However, apparently our colleagues showed no social sensitivity to them but only to these 4000 776 of which I would not know only 450 remain still in this system and all those others would turn 4000 and 300 into an easier system, into a tax system. I think my colleagues forgot one more thing. By liberating this group of people who do not according to me by any of the basic criteria for the release from such obligations, at least a thousand accountants in Croatia would be out of work, or those who deal through an organised institution would lose their turnover, because of this, this is why I would make them large craftsmen. These are in the sphere of the economy, the craftsman's large economy. They are not large-scale businessmen to those who have companies. In my assessment of the truth, these criteria cannot be accepted, and this is the debate that we have held in the 3rd month of this year when the state budget was passed, when, with this bill, no financial account has been carried out and shown to us by other MPs what it means financially for the state budget. Where in the state budget are we going to secure funds instead of these taxes that these people, who, I believe, are honorably doing their job and fulfilling their obligations, will no longer have to do these obligations. Where are we from, who are we proposing to in the state budget to deny? Is that on the family fees or the volunteers of the Homeland War or someone else? School, health care, etc. Therefore, Mr. President, this proposal does not meet the basic criteria so that I, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, could propose to adopt it. In fact, I feel like I don't need to adopt it, and I won't even support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58805	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58806	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I don't know what led the promoters of these amendments and the addition of the Tax on Profits Act, but I think that some important provisions of existing legal provisions and concepts have been ignored when it was made. The Law on crafts clearly and precisely defines the concept of crafts as an independent and permanent exercise of the permitted economic activity of natural persons with a purpose of obtaining profits. The craftsman shall, on his own behalf and for his own account, carry out economic activity and may also be used by other persons. This Regulation shall enter The Act amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies states that the minimum amount of underlying capital of HRK 200 000 is necessary for the establishment of a company, therefore, a limited liability company or company. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The profit tax law states that the taxpayer of the profit tax is a natural person who generates income from crafts and with a turnover of equal activity if he meets one of the 4 conditions set out in this proposal for amending the Law. I have listed only three laws that are bound and whose provisions regulate this issue. It is certain, however, that the proposed amendments and additions to any law must take into account the overall legislative regulations of that area, as this is the only way to reflect the effects of these legal changes on the overall economy, the guidelines of its development and society as a whole. When I was talking about the definition of "turner" according to the Law of Trade, I pointed out that he is carrying out economic activity with his means and on account, but it is normal that every crafter wants to develop and improve his firm. It is commendable that it is stronger, economically and marketable and that at some point crosses the income line, as our proposings say. In my view, it would be normal for him to then move into a higher organisational form, into any form of a commercial society than to legally move the boundaries so that you can stay on the income longer. Because as already an entrepreneur he has far greater opportunities for association, and thus more economical use of funds, the market for technical, new technologies and new products. Clean and transparent bookkeeping today is also a prerequisite for obtaining and bank loans. A crafter who achieves a total income of more than 2 million kuna or if he has obtained an income of more than 400,000 kuna or if he has a long-term asset of more than 2 million kuna or is on average employed by more than 15 workers is not a small craftsman. He is an economically significant entrepreneur, which is also the reason for the correct and reviewed result of business, business records. And it is not good for a natural person with a million-dollar capital and a business result to run simple books and not establish a real tax base. Simple bookkeeping based on the principle of the cash register, which means the paid cost, the paid receipt does not ensure a real business result, and thus also tax bases. Their production calculations are based on all costs included, and not only on paid ones, which means that they have different accounts for their own purposes but are tax needs. It must also be said that long-term assets of over 2 million kuna, consisting of buildings, machines, devices, craftsmen cannot control and monitor without accurate and up-to-date accounting records. It is the same situation with costs, customers, suppliers, workers, salaries, taxes and contributions. And only on the basis of true accounting documentation can correct and valid decisions be made. It's very important to me. The proposaler's data, as I have already said, that 4 thousand 766 craftsmen must, under the current law, move to a tax system towards profit is really nice, encouraging data because it means that they have earned income, therefore, greater than 400 thousand kuna or other that characteristic. So the total receipt and the like. That they have crossed, therefore, a craftsman and become significant businessmen. Also presented in the material that in 2005 about 2,000 and 200 craftsmen crossed the legal threshold of the income talks about a positive trend in our economy. The proposal for amending and supplementing the Law is certainly not a limiting factor and burden on craftsmen but rather a systematic measure of strengthening and developing entrepreneurship. Therefore, I support the Government's proposal not to accept these amendments to the Law, and I would like to reiterate that, therefore, it will continue, that small craftsmen, should be told that not to create an unfavourable, unpleasant climate, that they will continue to run simple accounting rather than double accounting. Therefore, I believe that our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen should also be educated in accounting terms and that will certainly help them achieve a better, better result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58807	Thank you. Comrade Pacek, there's another representative who checked in. Do you want to before or? ... Yes, please, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Željko Pecek. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58808	It's just that this has to be reacted because I listen very carefully to what my fellow MPs say. I'm surprised that for Mr. Shirtz, 4000 and 700 people, the fate of craftsmen and their families means nothing. Four thousand and 700 fates at stake. And let's not teach them lessons, let's not tell them what's best for them. They know what's best for them, Mrs. Majdenic. They know. This is a proposal from the Croatian Chamber of crafts to which the situation has been isolated and which it wants to change, and here at the HSS Club we help them in some way, but do not tell your colleagues that it is a burden for the state budget. Col. Širac is neutral for the state budget and are the same income and are the same expenditure, is the same income, is the same tax on that income, only different books are kept. I said the cheapest way to keep books is a thousand kunas, the cheapest, but it costs a couple thousand kunas. This kind of book can be run by the craftsmen themselves and their children and that's the advantage and it won't be any difference between these 90s and some thousand craftsmen will keep books simpler, and we suggest from these 4000 and 700 that they also lead simply because they're not big. Because you think a man has a slaver that has to lead and double bookkeeping, I assure you you're wrong. That's more than 2 million kuna. I assure you you're wrong, because I know this sector and it would be good if we talked differently here in the Parliament and you know what's going to happen? There will be accounting errors because people don't know how to run a double system and you know what's behind it? Penalties. You know who pays the most fines? That's exactly the sector. And you know what happens in Croatia? So the middle civil layer disappears, disappears, and this craftsman disappears. Do you know how many pensions people go after 30 years of internships after '99? years retired? A thousand and a hundred kunas, but to you a thousand kunas separate for keeping books is nothing. Oh, that's, I assure you, money for them to heaven. It's not exactly the average salary in Croatia either. I beg you, this is not a proposal from the HSS that we have politically proposed to fight HDZ, this is a proposal from the Croatian Chamber of crafts. The Croatian Chamber of crafts has arguments that require this, and I guess the goal is to reach 150 thousand craftsmen. I assure you if we don't change this law, if we don't change all the laws that I've been talking about, if a craftsman's mother can't use retirement insurance when she's with a child for up to 3 years, what have we done? But look only if such a condition means she can't put a turn into a standstill and if she stays with a child for up to 3 years she doesn't have the same income as a working mother, so you'll probably find arguments to be against that proposal. It's me or when we talk about trucks over 18 years old everywhere in Europe, these trucks are driving. In Croatia, a craftsman can't drive a truck over 18 years old, he can't even open a craft if he has a truck like that. So let's change that state. I'm appealing to you, let's not fight, I'm not interested in fighting with you because I have arguments for all of this. And finally, I talked to the craftsmen and the Chamber, and that's their proposal, that's not an HSS proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58809	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58810	Mr. President. My colleague Pacek stated that I did not respect these 4000 776 craftsmen which, of course, is not true. I respect that category of our people very much, and I think that these are honest and honest people who do their job, but I think that this group of people should otherwise carry out their obligations to the country they live in and in which they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58811	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58812	I will answer to support the motives behind this Law although I am prone to the views that the bill itself only segmentally touches the problem of crafty extinction in Croatia. What's pretty sad about this House when it's really about forgiveness of debts to sports clubs worth 700 million kunas or half a million kunas then 35 MPs appear, there's a passion for it, there's practically some kind of and party war, and we're all witnesses, enough to walk through any city center from Župa to Pazin that craftsmanship and craftsmanship and classical craftsman type is completely compromised. The threat of craftsmanship is like chronic degenerative diseases, it has many causes from rental policy and the process of restitution in cities to the fact that the governments so far before 2000 and after 2000 did not take advantage of anything they could use to strengthen the process of development of craft savings cooperatives in Croatia, for which huge potential could be gained within Western banking associations. It has already been mentioned, I think Mr. Širac was talking about the problems of pension disability insurance. I happened to be at an art goldsmith's craftsman, perhaps the best in Croatia, so I'm not going to mention names, I'm going to tell you only the locations of the Great Gorica. I've been to the man who manufactures, by chance, this just this morning, the nickel exhausts and the two autoelectricists who have been expelled, one from Derventa, one from the High, and in that sense, I think it would be good to use this law as some kind of incentive for the assembly majority to devote a more serious debate on craftsmanship. There is a paradox that takes place a few days ago in Croatia as a day of entrepreneurs and at the head of Croatian entrepreneurs is a man who deals with importing hygienic preparations and, of course, sets up conditions for both the president of the state and the President of the Government and the President of the Parliament, whoever you want, talks about what the state should do, shows that he and his suite, this tycoon scroll, which has become rich among other things and the destruction of the tiny and large crafts in Croatia because it is threatened by foreign sales chains,... , the Chinese, the black market, all of this and all of these people are getting smaller and more invisible and if someone in their name doesn't raise their voice then the craftsmanship that represented the beginnings of modern industrial production of Croatia and generally modern culture in Croatia will disappear and in that sense I would expect that when HDZ says that against this law is a great commendation of the motivation of this Law and that it agrees that HSS's suggest it from sincere human beliefs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They realize there's something going on around them that's not good. The bird flu will destroy the small producers of these poultry and I don't know what, you've now driven these long pipes of peasants into closed spaces, no more turkeys, no more ducks, no ducks, no chickens can be out in the open, something similar is happening today with Croatian craftsmanship, and that's what I'm going to end up with. I don't think this law is ideal, but anyone who says it's only four thousand people, so it's some idiot. What does that mean? Four thousand people. Road 4, that's 20,000 people who are existentially dependent on it. When you say one man, one man is enough for Americans to enter a war. Therefore, we must no longer use the mental assembly of early Communism. When something's under a thousand, it's small. A man, a craftsman, if he can change his fate better and be the cover of something positive that needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58813	Thank you very much. Mr. Letica, I give you a warning because of an offensive expression to an agent you called an idiot. You called an agent an idiot very precise and clear, you didn't just give him a name and a name. I'm focused. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you'll get another warning with a full concentration, so you'll make sure you don't name MPs idiots. Replica, a respected representative of Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58814	Thank you very much. Since Mr. Honorable Representative Letica spoke last my replica will refer more to saying a few sentences related to this topic which I do not think is explicitly mentioned in the discussions in this part and refers directly to the agricultural producers of the natural person who are VAT bonds. We are today in a situation where we want our agricultural producer to be in the system, to guide it in a certain way and to objectively prepare it for what is called the future, the European Union and all that. In order to be so prepared, I am convinced and I think the Secretary of State agrees and all of us here that its total income must be not only these 2 million and something, not only these 4 but also more, given that we know in which situation we are in competition and especially at the threshold of this adaptation to the European Union. Unfortunately, with this limitation that we have so far if we look at it this way, our farmers will continue to be depreciated, but they won't be able to expand, but they'll have to move into that other group. Their transition to that other group is causing a huge problem. I assure you, they've barely dealt with keeping records of how bonds of a natural person, bonds of VAT, that when we transfer them now this double part and what they're bound to do is all those I'd say and some of the advantages they could in that part would fall into the water. I think it will make it even more difficult for them what we should all try together to make it easier for them and that relief should be for them to be more competitive, that they can deal with the challenge that lies ahead of them and that they can eventually survive. That's why I think we should think carefully about this proposal, not evaluate it, I'd say it in the same way as I heard here from my colleagues that it doesn't suit him. If it pleases in any way both one craftsman and one natural person in agriculture, the family holding which is a VAT debtor should in any case... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58815	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58816	I'd just say so. I was talking in principle about the idiotism of those who consider four thousand people insignificant numbers and you're president something too nervous, there's no reason, and I've noticed it for a long time. As for my colleague Pankretić's views, I support them as a whole. Therefore, today something needs to be done systematically in relation to 98% of the Croatian population and also in relation to craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58817	A colleague of Letica, she listened to the whole public and I very carefully when you said what kind of idiot those 4000 and something that would accept to refer to the exception of 4000 and some craftsmen, an idiot. Time's up for an individual debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Final review on behalf of the applicant, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58818	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Here, I'll try something quieter to not do what I hope none of us want to do and otherwise always the final tone should be directed towards the affirmative approach. And I'll try to say it like that. We are these amendments to the law, we brought them here today, and we are not asking for support because of the HSS. The HSS simply doesn't need this kind of change and supplementation. We have simply been talking to them for a long time with the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, with craftsmen almost a year and a half, we have been working with them, and this is only one in a series of legislative proposals with which HSS has come out to fix what needs to be fixed in terms of the overall state of craftsmanship. I would point out that he had just initiated and adopted the Small Economy Act where the first legal framework for crafts was found, for a little entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, that programmes were launched, that whole lines of credit were launched. Of course, I also take this as an appeal. This is an appeal through HSS craftsmen to change the state and this is a small segment that can be improved if we want those 4 thousand 766 craftsmen to be able to do better, so that the state doesn't get cut off. It is not the proposal of the HSS to regulate the easy relationship between the employer and the state. The proposal is that they are equal because they are activities such as trade, such as construction in which you have really high amounts but you also have high costs of these amounts. So it's about specific types of income, of course, often based on one job, that you go through that censorship, but that doesn't mean you're successful, that doesn't mean you don't have a problem with bookkeeping, that doesn't mean you don't miss every kuna. But just if this is a kind of appeal, then that appeal needs to be properly understood. Which is why you refuse to make a proposal like this. Let's see what happens if we reject this proposal. There is a very negative message happening to the Croatian public and craftsmen, and of course it is in the eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the eyes of craftsmen very clearly focused in a way, that it is the interest of foreign companies, that it is the interest of global capital, that it is the companies that have come to Croatia, then the government and the ruling position would certainly be different. Therefore, we cannot send messages to the citizens they have for them, from their point of view of negative connotation. If it can be established, if the Ministry of Finance can very clearly and precisely determine what would happen to bring about such changes and supplement whether the state budget would be damaged? Would there be a decline in the charge of the state budget, and what would the craftsmen of these 4,000 get on the other side? Would that hurt the second structure of Croatian craftsmen? No, you wouldn't. If we could just say no, we didn't go to full reform. But you know what? These citizens of ours are already as old as they are, who's 60, he's convinced 60 years old tomorrow you'll be better off. That's how my father used to tell me they were talking to him. He retired and has a very small pension. But you're gonna get better tomorrow, and you're not gonna wait for it tomorrow. Therefore, a partial reform that will be on the right path to try to solve life’s problem is also better. Well, I agree, the smaller part of the craftsman, but he's trying to solve it and he's gonna get rid of it. And the overall segment of our craftsmanship and our relationship to crafts must be at the level of a certain sensitivity. He has to. Because we can't change our craftsmen to be equal with strong corporations, with the ones on the outside that will come unquestionably because I can't handle them. We need to be sensitive, we need to make advantages for our domestic producers in this area. The craftsmen and pioneers of the Croatian economy, but believe me, if they do not become holders of the Croatian economy then Croatia will experience difficult days. Croatian craftsmanship and a small economy must become a backbone. Of course, it cannot become without concern and a very important role of the state. Fiscal policy in that part plays a very important role. The fiscal policy in that part must take those positions and answer those questions that are very simple. How can we all pay taxes evenly, how to fill the tax register regularly, without being at the expense of the poorest, rather than being equally and evenly divided? Therefore, this bill should also be taken as an appeal, but it should also be seen as one in a series of legal solutions which the HSS will come out for months to try to improve and create a better position of Croatian craftsmanship than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58819	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58820	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the inaccuracy of colleagues that it's for these craftsmen, i.e. entrepreneurs, a life problem. It's not true that life's a problem. If someone has 15 employees, if someone has value, I don't know, a 2 million kuna machine can't be his life problem. I know very well the craftsmen with two million kunas of which no one wants to work for the municipality because everything has to go through paper. It's true that craftsmen don't like papers, it's true that it will complicate their lives. That they actually complicate their life in paper management, but that life's problem is definitely not true. And when you speak, your whole exposure is based on little poor craftsmen to whom it does not apply at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u58821	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 3 p.m., the vote on proposals discussed, and in particular on the proposal for a law on coastal line transport. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act, the Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. In accordance with the proposals made by the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no draft law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS is adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 67 for closure, 3 abstentions and 7 against. The conclusion was adopted with the proposed majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64142	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 40th session held on 9 March 2006, the Committee for the Election and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives. First, a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Zvonimir Sabati and Others, is hereby elected as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64143	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 77 votes to make the proposed decision. Second.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64144	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 40th session held on 9 March 2006 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Željko Ledinski, is dismissed. And secondly, a member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament is elected Miroslav Cacia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64145	What's the score? It's a debate. The result? The result? To vote. Score, 77 votes in. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64146	The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs at the 40th session held on 9 March 2006 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Zvonimir Sabati is elected member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64147	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 77 votes for the proposed decision. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64148	Thank you. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 40th session held on 9 March 2006 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. Željko Ledinski is elected as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64149	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please, let's get on with it. Let's go vote. The result? With 77 votes to be delivered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64150	At the 40th session held on 9 March 2006, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to resolve and appoint a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters. First, a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from the elementary disasters, Ivan Drmic, is resolved. And secondly, for a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters is named Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64151	We can vote. No more quorum. By the fact that Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš is gone right now, and that's the lack of quorum. Thank you very much, President. We'll move on. I interrupt, the session continues on Wednesday with the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act by Units and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local... Hold still, please. I suggest that these two laws be held in a united debate. Consent? Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Profit Taxation, the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. That applies to the same matter. Consent? Okay, thank you very much. We continue to take the agenda as determined in the order. Thank you very much. This time it's gonna be like always what... legal advice. [[You don't understand.]] The election and appointments, three decisions since last time, respected President Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64153	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 40th session held on 9 March 2006, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters. First, a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from the elementary disasters Ivan Drmić and secondly, is resolved, for a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters is named Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64154	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 5 against the proposed decision. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64155	At the 40th session held on 9 March 2006, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to resolve and appoint a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters. First, a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters, Ljubo Jurčić, is resolved. And secondly, for a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters is called Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64156	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. To vote. The result? With 90 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64157	At the 40th session held on 9 March 2006, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters. A member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters is named Vladimir Kurečić instead of Vladimir Pleška.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64158	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Thank you. The result? No, we can vote before the results, yes. The result? With 86 votes for, 2 abstentions to the proposed decision. Elections, appointments and resolutions, committee president Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, please present several suggestions. Don't leave yet. We'll be there in a few minutes. ... What's hungry? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64160	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly held at the 41st session held on 23 March 2006 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament. Željko Kurtov is elected member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64161	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 90 votes for and 3 abstentioned representative Zeljko Kurtov was elected a member of the Committee on Agriculture. Go on, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64162	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 41st session held on 23 March 2006 unanimously established a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Croatian War Veterans Committee. Željko Kurtov is elected member of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64163	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the committee's proposal was adopted. You can't vote your colleague when you're standing. There's still one decision. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64164	At its 41st session held on 23 March 2006, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Management Board of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. As a member of the Management Board of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, Marko Širac is hereby appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-10-0.u64165	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The result? With 76 votes in favour and 4 abstentions and 5 against, the proposed decision was made. We're done voting. Resume session Wednesday. We will begin with the theme of the proposal for a national anti-corruption strategy in 2006 to 2008.
