ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53463	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 18th session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all very much. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of Mr Ivo Sanader, Vice-President, Vice-President and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session also begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - I would also like to pay tribute to all the fallen Croatian defenders and all the civilian victims of the war in the fight for the free and democratic Croatian state. - A minute of silence - Let them be eternal glory and thank you. - Praise them! – The minutes of the 17th session of the Croatian Parliament were received at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 17th session. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I added 8 new points: 1. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, 2. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol 14 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms on the Amendment of the Control System of the Convention with the Final Proposal for Law 3. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the consolidation of the debt of the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal for Law 4. Proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "Croatian Roads – Split bypass" with the Final Proposal for Law 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the field of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families with the final proposal for Law 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government with the final proposal of Law 7. Proposal for a decision on a spatial nature park plan Kopački rit and 8. Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda referred to in points 4 to 8, from 12 to 14, points 37 and 38, under points 40 and 43, shall specify the laws for which the emergency procedure is proposed. These are: Proposals for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol No 14 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms on the Amendment of the Control System of the Convention, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Consolidation of the Debt of the Republic of Croatia, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Project "Croatian Roads - the Split Passage" Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Cooperation in the area of the Law of the Victims of War in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Amendment of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia on Health and the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the second Club of PGS, SBH and the IMF. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Proposal for a Law amending the Road Transport Act with the final proposal for a Law. Proposing representative Željko Pecek. Does any of the representatives, the representative, have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed law? Just one moment. One, Vice President Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53464	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53465	Wait a minute. One moment. Only yes, Luka Bebić, Damir Kajin, Ruža Tomasic, Anto Djapic and Zdenka Babić Petricevic. So we have five MPs who object to enlisting in an emergency procedure. Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53466	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I have an objection to the urgent procedure of the proposal under point 37, 38, 40, 43, i.e. the addition of the Health Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act with a final draft law, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax with a final proposal for a law under 40, 43, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Transport in Road Transport. There's no need for an emergency procedure. There's no need for a regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53467	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53468	Your Honor, Mr. President, here at the IDS Club we would like to express our objection to the inclusion in the agenda by emergency procedure under point 5. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic. Then, under point 7. Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative body. Why? Well, first of all, it is a major financial commitment under the Republic of Croatia, and it would be our turn to prepare ourselves to discuss these points of the agenda, the more we found these legal proposals only yesterday in our boxes. Although it may be common for these international contracts to be included in the agenda by emergency procedure, I said yesterday we got these legal texts and it is about significant financial commitments and I hold that it would be opportunised to move so much or to move somewhere in the middle of the agenda so that they could prepare themselves or go into the regular procedure. For example, in this law, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic is that of the Paris Club, etc. I note that Slovenia is not treated in the same way as the other ex-Yugoslav Republic, but it is on the other hand an 80 million-dollar obligation that the Republic of Croatia is taking over. It's probably nothing to argue about, but I'd like you to give us a chance to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53469	Thank you. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53470	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The HSP Club notes the proposal of the 12th Point Act. This is the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Citizenship with the Final Proposal for a Law. In fact, such a law, a proposal that brings a series of irregularities that not only would not help Croatia, but would violate Croatia's reputation in the world, has caused huge damage to the Croatian diaspora. We ask that this law go into the ordinary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53471	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53472	Mr. President, we have an objection to the 8th point, so the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies, etc. for an emergency procedure. We keep in mind that this bill does not make any difference and that this is a subject that deserves at least two readings, so we suggest that the 8th point goes into regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53473	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53474	Mr. President, on behalf of the Committee on Immigration, we object to point 12 and ask that this point 12. Proposal for a Law confirming the European Convention on Citizenship shall take place in a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53475	Thank you. Now we're going in a row. Keep an eye on it, I'll always highlight which complaints to include in the agenda by emergency procedure. We'll have to vote. Please engage! Please result in a quorum determination. 82 MPs and MPs are present. So we can determine the agenda. First, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of Protocol No. 14 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms on the Amendment to the Control System of the Convention? There was no objection here to the inclusion of this bill in the emergency procedure. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes for, 4 abstentions and 2 against the agenda, this Final Bill was included in the emergency procedure. Secondly, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the consolidation of the debt of the Republic of Croatia? Here the objection to the inclusion on the agenda by emergency procedure was given by the respected representative Damir Cain. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 62 votes in favour, one abstention and 29 against and this proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Third, who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Development Project "Croatian Roads – Split bypass"? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 83 votes for, 2 abstentions and 3 against included and this Final Bill proposal on the agenda by emergency procedure. Fourthly, who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families? ... the objection to the inclusion on the agenda following an emergency procedure was held by the honourable representative Damir Cain. [[Specially enabled.]] Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 73 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 10 against and this Final Bill proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Fifth, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government? The objection to the inclusion in the agenda under the urgent procedure of this law was made, with respected representatives Kajin and Anto Djapic. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 45 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 41 against. The law goes into regular procedure. Sixth, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Citizenship? Here, the objection to the inclusion on the agenda was given by the respected representative Ruža Tomasic and the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Assembly. Please engage. We can vote. The result? 12 for, 4 against, 4 abstentions, 74 against. The bill goes to first reading. Seven, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Military Technical Cooperation? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes for and 5 against and this Final Bill proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Eight, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Social Insurance Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Denmark? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes for, 2 abstentions, 2 against the agenda by emergency procedure was included this Final Bill. Ninth, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Health Insurance Act. There was a respected representative, Luka Bebic, who had the objection. It's the SDP MPs' club, that's the bill. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 24 for, 6 abstentions, 60 against. He didn't pass the motion to include this law in the emergency procedure. Secondly, who is also the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Health Insurance Act proposed by the PGS, SBH and the IMF, also objecting to the emergency proceedings of the representative Luke Bebić. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 23 for emergency procedure, 2 abstentions, 60 against. Not included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Third, who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act, proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS, with also the objection of the representative Luke Bebić. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 25 for emergency procedure, 3 abstentions, 60 against. He did not pass the proposal to be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure. Twelve, who is in favour of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Transport in Road Transport, proposed by Agent Zeljko Pecek, with an appeal for inclusion in the emergency procedure of representative Luka Bebić. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 30 for, 7 abstentions, 55 against. He did not receive the necessary majority to include in the agenda by emergency procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, the objection can now only be made to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, with a call for a session. Under point 1, the following are included: Reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, under point 26 of the proposal for a decision on the establishment of a spatial nature park "Kopački rit" and under point 36 of the report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. Any of the MPs object to including any of these three points in the agenda? There isn't. Dear Representative Zeljko Pavlic, I don't know what, do you hurt the Rules of Procedure or what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53476	Rules of Procedure. Here, then, at the end of the adoption of the agenda, I would like to warn that it has been broken or broken these years and over a year of Article 138. Rules of Procedure which discusses the proposal on the working bodies of the Assembly. In this article 138, it reads: "The President of the Working Body and the Legislative Committee are obliged to put the draft law on the agenda of the working body meetings and to carry out the debate." I warn that there were four laws on road safety that were not processed in the working bodies throughout the past year on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. I think it's this way, it's obviously an obstruction, it's just a violation of the 138th of our Rules of Procedure that we have to work on because it's about duty, so it's about something being done, not something or some law being obstructed. So I ask you, as President of the Parliament, to insist that this Rules of Procedure be effective, functional and applicable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53477	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 18th session with two points. One is: Proposal for a decision on a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 3(2). The law on privatisation of Croatian telecommunications. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. You know what this is about? What? The Legislative Committee shall propose a proposal for a credible interpretation. [[Intruder: Legislatives.]] Any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of these two points? There isn't. The addition of the agenda was then established. And even today, we would then do this point next is - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Safety – Proposer Djurdja Adledzic, first reading, P.Z. No. 381 It's a withdrawn bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53480	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, no one has filed a motion to vote with us. Therefore, we should have voted with the keys, I warn you of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53481	We continue on Wednesday at 9:30 with discussion, continuing the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Transport of Linely and Uncommon Coastal, Maritime Transport and thereafter on the agenda: Proposal for a Decision on the Spatial Nature Plan Učka pa Kopačka rita pa Changes and additions of the bankruptcy law and various other reports. ... The convention will be here in time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They'll come, the convention will come.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53482	In the morning, representatives of 38 reported 34 were asked questions, the president of the Parliament was interrupted at 1 and a half hours, left Mr Ivan Kolar, Ana Lovrin, Petar Mlinarić and Davorko Vidovic, and there will be a possible question in this opinion first in the following. What? ... Says here you can ask 40 questions, but not at what time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53483	Well, Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I must say that I am sorry that we started the spring session of the Parliament with a kind of precedent, a kind of incident and a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so by interrupting the question on the current clock. In fact, President-in-Office's behaviour was counter-business because we first agreed on the quotas of the party, and therefore the quotas were not respected today, and I four MPs, regardless of which party they belonged, had no right to ask a question. Secondly, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that the half-life break is at half-two, and many times there has been a situation in this House that we and after 13 and 30 have continued to work, because that's what we do every Friday. Therefore, I see no reason to continue to work today during the duration of the break and that these four MPs could have had the same treatment as the rest of us who asked the question. The third thing, in the Rules of Procedure, is that the current clock lasts for four hours. We didn't take advantage of it either, we were working on the current clock for less than three hours. And one more thing, if we had contributed in any way today, to the fact that the current lasts longer than it normally does, maybe this would have been justifiable. Unfortunately, we were here today to witness that the President of the Parliament was actually allowing ministers, especially the Prime Minister to do much longer than he was allowed time to explain his answers and answer our questions. We don't mind that any of the ministers and the prime minister himself have very broad answers, but we also ask that each representative be the same in this Chamber and we really protest that four MPs had no reason to ask questions in the current hour and we also apologize if we have pissed off Mr. Prime Minister's questions and no longer had to listen to and answer our questions after 30:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53484	That it was allowed for government members to respond longer, and for some MPs, too. I'll pass on these remarks to the President of the Parliament, it's up to me to move on to the agenda. ... In what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The objection is based on what? ... I don't see any reason unless you're looking for a break for something. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53485	Just two sentences. Today, without being able to ask the question, there are four MPs left. Next time, according to that logic, that dynamic will remain eight, the next time twelve, and we will lose that possibility in 7 or 8 current mornings to 35 MPs asking a question or an entire current morning of these improvisations simply bring.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53486	It's not gonna happen, you know why?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53487	I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53488	Because we're going to warn you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53489	Well, we'd better smoke in the cold than later.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53490	And ministers, government members and MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure and that no one crosses the minute he has to ask questions, and also to answer questions. So that's not going to add up cumulatively, but we'll figure it out next time, and I'm asking you not to lose any further. I've taken note, I'm going to pass on Mrs. Opacic to these remarks she's made to the good part and they're standing around because she hasn't been asking questions in four hours, but here I can't judge why someone's been saying it any longer, why someone's shorter. I will pass on the matter, and now we are moving to the 1st point of the agenda, with four MPs Ivan Kolar, Ana Lovrin, Petar Mlinarić and Davorko Vidovic having the advantage of asking questions next time. Here, Mr. Ivan Kolar agrees, and Mr. Vidovic is gone, and these two Mlinarić and Anna Lovrin, so let's go, I think that's how we handled it. The first asks a question at the next current hour by representative Ivan Kolar. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53509	The Rules of Procedure and Provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Labour Authorities shall determine exclusively the right of the President of the Working Body and of the members of the Working Body to be discussed or included in the working body in the debate in the working body. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been determined by those amendments, particularly regarding the urgency of the procedure. We begin by asking questions to the government or to an individual member of the government. One thing I'm going to say is that an agent can ask one question. Let's take it in a row. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53510	Mr. Minister, I will refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. These days we're reading in the papers "if the government wants to work with the peasants, they'll have it. Or secondly, "The BBF Association is looking for customs duties on imported beef to solve 4 thousand pieces of heroin, and also warns of the gray market because more than 60% of domestic livestock traffic is still taking place without any documentation. Milkmen and pigs announce protests over unpaid incentives. They also warn of bad problems with farm building where only 8% manage to build farms from the start to the end. On the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture accuses peasants of spending more incentive than allowed, better say, stealing 104 million kuna, which is for diesel, which is for incentives. For one state of agriculture is, as one of our colleagues here in the assembly would say, disastrously or never worse. There are no other problems at all. Due to the lack of proper statistical data, available data show that crop areas are growing, probably due to incentives. The yields are dropping, technology and technology is at the level of the 1980s. And we are on our way into the European Union when production quotas are very important, or better to say our balance sheets. In the fall of 2004, I asked Minister Cobankovic a written question, and today I repeat it. When the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy will start implementing the Agricultural Act, in particular Articles 5 and 43. In particular, Article 5 speaks about the adoption of the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Areas, which is important primarily because it was intended to set up agricultural specifics and determine the use of the European Union's agricultural funds, which was to be discussed and decided by this Assembly, rather than by a group of people at its discretion. The Annual Report on the State of Agriculture in the previous year, the Green Report, would give an assessment of the situation and the economic situation of agriculture, as well as the final and proposal and how to implement the agricultural policy measures for the next period. So far, all we have are newspaper articles...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53511	My colleague, thank you very much. You asked a question, I can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53512	Mr. Minister, when this information will be available for discussion in this House, what you and the Government are obliged to do. That is, when you will follow the law and submit mandatory reports and the long-awaited National Agricultural Programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53513	Thank you very much. I'm asking you, please, all MPs and MPs to hold on to those minutes. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53514	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Madam Representatives, Honorable Gentlemen Representatives and Madam Representatives. Thank you for your question. Normally, when we look from different angles, we can interpret the situation in agriculture differently. I must stress that as a resolution minister, I have never said that the situation in Croatian agriculture is great. The situation in Croatian agriculture is what it is, but it is also a fact that this government, this ministry, is making certain efforts to improve the situation in agriculture. As a result, this government has also introduced certain strategic directions for the development of agriculture, adopted certain operational programmes, and which are heading right towards improving the situation in Croatian agriculture. If you'd like to elaborate the situation in agriculture, then I'd need a lot more time. But I can stress that there are problems, that we in the government are aware of these problems and that we are heading towards solving these problems. As for the reports themselves, I can specifically inform you that they are made up and that they will be referred to the parliamentary procedure and that you will be familiar with all the reports you have requested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53515	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53516	Thank you very much, Minister. I didn't say at all that the government doesn't do much, but I just said that it's high time that after 5 years to deliver a report to this Parliament and that it's high time that these problems he has, or the successes he has if he has them, he's also discussing this Parliament because you have a duty to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53517	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53518	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. Mr. President, after the introduction of the pension reform in 98, which began to be applied in 1.1.99, 248 thousand workers, officials and tenants went into retirement. Those who went to retirement in 2000 made an average pension of €431, while those who went to the same pension in the last year went to €220, or 17.3% lower. However, those who went to early retirement in 2000 had an average pension of about 555 kuna at that time, and in the last year, a thousand 361 kuna or 12.4% lower. And just one more piece of information. The average pension in January this year was 2 thousand 40 kuna, and the average pension of new pensioners in December last year, a thousand 220 kuna or 41% lower. So, the effect of the pension reform is approximately in the message, the longer you do, you'll have a smaller pension. Either run to early, disabled or family pensions. It's a painful fact and evidence of a new, large, social injustice brought by a pension reform in 98. My question is, Mr. President. Whether and when you propose measures to eliminate this injustice and new pensioners at their height, if not evened, you will at least draw close to the level of retirement to those before the introduction of the pension reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53519	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53520	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. This is a topic that we are all interested in today in Croatia because we are really witnessing that after the pension reform that has been brought and one system that was new then, which was very well accepted, there is a difference between those so-called, old pensioners and new pensioners. And we're aware of that. And yesterday we also held a session with the presidents of the union centres to discuss it, where we put forward a proposal to form a working group, and already with a pensioner party and with pensioners' associations we have been discussing it for a long time. To create a working group to work on retirement, a new pension reform. Because that was a pension reform, too. New pension reform. However, since it is also about the fact that these pensions and if we go, and we will go to a new pension reform we must also pay from some sources. I also want to make it clear here that the entire Croatian public knows that we want to solve this problem, but that today is also the difference from paid contributions and paid pensions minus 11 billion kuna. It is unfortunately a real state in which Croatia lives. Therefore, contributions paid for pension insurance and pension payments in 2005, but 4, and in 3, and in 2 were always over 10. Today, there are 11 billion kunas. It's one big problem that the government can't solve, but we have to solve it all together, primarily the economy. We have a situation that entrepreneurs, the question is whether we can call them entrepreneurs, not settle pension contributions for their workers, that they take workers on black, and that's not only a damage to the state in the budget, but it's a pity of course for these workers, and the damage is also going to the pensioners. So it's a big problem that we're aware of, but I repeat once again as a responsible man, and I claim to myself that I am, and even the Prime Minister can't go with false hopes right now, warm up what I can say is we're going to form, we've already got one working group with the pensioners, we're going to include union representatives to find a solution together. I personally believe that we must all take part of the responsibility because for such a situation we are all responsible for, therefore, paid contributions and the difference in paid pensions is 11 billion kuna. This is what the Croatian public knows well what it means and I personally believe that the only way out is to fight the gray economy, strengthen the economy, because if the economy does not strengthen them, let alone for pensions, and in that sense we are aware of this problem, we go to it, we are not afraid of it, we are not running away from it, but I say in the Croatian public what the situation is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53521	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53522	I was very pleased to hear that you would share your responsibility for the new moves with a party of pensioners and unions, but that's their decision. All pension reforms so far have always included half of the money, 50% of pension expenditure and reforms are for retirement and 50 others for other categories. I'm also afraid that this reform you're preparing will again be covered only by those who have the least pensions and other than the grey economy as one of the possible problems, not the only ones, I didn't say the only ones, one of them. I remind you that in the portfolio of the Mirovinski Fund there are 3 billion shares in kuna and a billion in stamps, and that the dividend according to the Mirovinski Fund plan could be the subject of considering a one-time increase in these new pensions in order to at least get close to them, you did not mention this, and in addition to the fight against the gray economy, give a little scratch in the portfolio of the Mirovinski Fund, the stock portfolio, management rights and profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53523	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53524	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, State Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer a question to Ms. Foreign Minister and European Integrations Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. At the moment when the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in such negotiations on the conditions of entry into the community of European peoples where Croatia is both historically and geographically in all other circumstances and belongs, it is very important to inform the public about the achievements of your ministry. So I ask you a question, what are the main achievements in the 2005 foreign policy plan?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53525	Thank you. Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53526	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Representative, Croatia's foreign policy in 2005 can indeed be seen as very successful as a result of the coordinated action of the president of the state and government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, as well as the Croatian Parliament and other foreign policy factors. Especially important results are achieved in priority areas of foreign policy, which are... integration, relations and co-operation with neighbours, regional co-operation, multilateral cooperation and roles in preserving and achieving global security and certainly bilateral relations with many world states. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] The result of its work is certainly a much greater presence on the international scene and Croatia as an increasingly desirable partner in international relations. The biggest success is the opening of negotiations on the accession of the European Union on 3 October, but this certainly preceded a number of diplomatic activities, the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on 1 February, the establishment of a designation and a competent quality negotiating team and a positive report by the European Commission on the progress of the Republic of Croatia. The acquisition of candidate status gave us the opportunity to participate actively in the creation of European policies, so the Prime Minister regularly participates in European summits, while ministers participate in informal meetings, regular political consultations are being held, which certainly contributes to a better and more active role within the European Union, but also bilaterally with other countries. The negotiations also affected the increase in the level of economic activity with many countries, increased interest in investing in Croatia, but also helped Croatia in reforms, state administration reform, etc. Last year, a number of bilateral visits were also made at all levels of Croatian leadership and authorities, as well as a number of bilateral visits to Croatia, we participated in the work of all European forums, multilateral organisations, very much recorded visits and participation of our delegations. With our neighbours, we have stepped up the resolution of open issues, but certainly our role in the adoption of regional stability and cooperation, this year it will also be strengthened by our chairmanship of SECEPO, i.e. the process of stabilising Southeast Europe and quadrilaterally, and in recent years every CEFTE summit and enlargement initiative has been extremely important. In multi-latilarism participation at the 60th General Assembly meeting of the very observed achievement, the work of the Millennium Goals, as well as the work on the increased role in... and ensuring global security, participation in more than 12 UN peacekeeping operations, etc., also contribute to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia on the global stage in achieving peace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should be noted that relations with the United States and other countries in the world are in the upward direction, we also note the visit of the Prime Minister of China where a declaration of joint cooperation has been signed, and also in Croatia... very important international conferences such as Crane Montana,... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] forum, summit at the top of SEI, CEFTE etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53527	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53528	This answer in any case proves the effectiveness and effectiveness of both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and your ministry within the mandates given, and I believe that I share my satisfaction with your answer with all these citizens who have shown interest in this topic, and believe them there has been a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53529	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53530	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Peter Cobankovic. Namely, the biggest grudge for all previous agriculture ministers, or what marked and what they remembered was the external trade balance. In other words, imports of agricultural and food products from year to year recorded records while exports stagnated and did not record significant shifts. It is clear to everyone that the borders are opening up, that we are part of the global market and that the capital does not know the borders. How did we end the 2005 calendar year know the external trade balance from agriculture? Or might it be even more important if Minister Petar Cobankovic told us whether it is increasing and whether agricultural and food products are finally being exported? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53531	Thank you. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. MP, this is one really serious issue of Croatian agriculture and the fact is that by liberalising the Croatian market, entering the WTO, signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and free trade agreements with individual countries, the market has been liberalised. In any event, the result was a significant increase in imports but not only imports of agricultural and food products but also other goods. The fact is that there have also been significant increases in imports of agricultural and food products and that it has increased I would say imports and that our deficit has increased from year to year. This year there have been some changes and for the first time this year we have a higher and more significant rate of export growth of agricultural and food products compared to import growth. Exports of Croatian agricultural and food products in this year grew at a rate of 30% while imports grew at a rate of 10%. Speaking of imports, I must point out that this year we had the most significant items of imports on the import of live cattle and meat. And for these very reasons, this ministry is also going with certain programmes to change the structure of livestock farming and to go with a programme to increase cattle production, which is in the function and production of meat and milk. And it also goes and starts with a program to increase pig production. As far as I'm concerned, I'd say exports are significant that for the first time this year that rate is thus expressed and that in absolute terms this year I can say that exports have exceeded imports. Exports in this year compared to 2004 are somewhere increasing the circulation of $200m while imports are at $140m. This trend, if we can keep it, we could get to what we wanted, which is that the coverage of exports is going to be at 70%, which I was conditionally told to myself by coming to the minister's post and drawing. As far as import coverage is concerned. ... As regards the coverage of imports by export, they can say that it is at 58% in agriculture while looking at the overall trade in goods in Croatia, the coverage of imports by exports is at 47%. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, so by running certain programmes Croatia will go towards meeting its own needs on the one hand and on the other hand creating products that will be able to perform. And what's more important. We have the most significant increase in exports to European Union countries. There is a 75% increase in exports which I keep equally important and significant because it shows that Croatian agriculture and the Croatian food industry has a product that can be carried out on the most demanding world markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53533	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53534	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53535	Thank you. Dear Representative Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53536	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government with ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs! I would like to refer the parliamentary question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Mr. Bozidar Kalmeti. We have heard this parliamentary question several times in this House but we have not received a satisfactory and adequate answer nor have any concrete measures taken and therefore I want to repeat it. I speak now on behalf of all citizens of the city of Vukovar. The question is when will the government create assumptions and enable the purchase of apartments in eastern Croatia, specifically in Vukovar, under those conditions that ruled in all other parts of Croatia? On this occasion, I would like to stress that the citizens of Vukovar have joined the Association of Residents of the City of Vukovar and the city is covered with these posters, here one of them has been removed from one door, where they have been discussing housing problems for the second time. The aim of this public debate is to call on the government to resolve the issue of buying apartments in Vukovar. I want Mr. Secretary to say something concrete about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53537	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53538	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Representative! In the area of special state care there are about 16 thousand apartments, namely 15 thousand 985 or 6 it seems to me what we have done so far and what we are doing is that we have recorded all these apartments and recorded all those who live in them and that we have audited their stay in those apartments. This was therefore the first prerequisite for issuing a rental solution and for charging these apartments, therefore renting them. By 1.3. or in the first quarter of this year, everyone who uses these apartments will be given a rental solution and the rent will be charged. I don't know five, six thousand of those solutions these days, so this process will certainly be over in the first quarter. What follows and what we do in parallel with it and what is very difficult and complicated is to determine the titleholders of ownership. And you know as well as I do and as all of us together that property over those apartments has something state-owned but most are not state-owned. We have included both the Ministry of Finance and the State Attorney's Office and all state institutions that can help these apartments register as state property. At that time and as the apartment is registered as the property of the Republic of Croatia, we will then go into the process of selling these apartments, and all according to the Law from the area of special state care. Otherwise, by now some of these apartments have been sold so that they can't be said that nothing has been done about it. Here I'm saying that if we've made a big step in this hard and complicated job because there's no paperwork, there's a whole series of problems that the Office is facing in solving these problems, but here by 1.3, everyone's going to get a solution to the rental. We will start charging rents and parallels with how any apartment will be entered into the property of the state will go for sale to whoever is in it and all according to the Law on Areas of Special State Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53539	Dear Representative Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53540	I am partially satisfied with the answer, but I would like to stress here that it is irrational if this is not done more effectively in this difficult financial situation because in these 16 thousand apartments there are practically around EUR 400 million which are unused and which the Government could use for some purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53541	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53542	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Dear Mr. Sanader. We are witnessing in Sisak, Velika Gorica, Požega-Slavon County, Dubrovnik-Neretva County and some other units of local self-government that have come to know which way of changing local authorities. It is the SDP's view that the voter's will can only be changed in the elections, not by reselling council terms. I therefore ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, whether the Government will call the elections in Sisak, Velika Gorica and Požega-Slavon County, Dubrovnik-Neretva County and other municipalities and cities where there has been a change of government or its obstruction and thus allow citizens to re-schedul their mandates in the elections or you will continue to demagoguely speak of who the mandate belongs while at the same time your party trades largely throughout Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53543	Honorable Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. I would like to ask my colleague Mršić that this supplement is no longer present because it represents one disqualification. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53544	Mr. Representative Mršić. I take this question of yours as the beginning of a non-election campaign in Croatia because it will start there somewhere in September, October 2007, but as the start of an election campaign in the SDP. So, of course, you're right. We from other parties with great attention and interest follow how you run these races. What I'm trying to tell you is that I reject definitely and resolutely what you said was a demagogy that the government put forward a proposal that the mandate belonged to a councilman. It's no demagogy because, but it's a firm position of the government, and we've sent such a law, and we've made it possible for this law to stop happening with the resignations being manipulated or working, and so on, rather than any councilman. I didn't say [[Don't insult the president.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53545	Please, please! Please! [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53546	Ante, Ante! Mr. Representative, I didn't say who. [[Intruder: Please!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53547	Please, peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53548	Therefore, the Government is the proposed Law which the Croatian public is familiar with and proposed to the Croatian Parliament the way in which we will avoid the practice that has been shown in several units of local self-government. That's our proposal. Please, I expect you all to support him in the Croatian Parliament and to put an end to such practice. Can that be worth it? That's your question. Can he be worth it backwards? It can't be like any other law. And we must also be aware of that. As much as we want or you want one or the other. But I'm asking you a question, and yesterday the Minister of Finance spoke about it... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you the same question, which was responsible, please the nice question is part of the answer. ... It doesn't have to, no, it's not rhetorical, it's the real question, but it's part of the answer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why didn't you answer when she was, and that was the first case of Great Gorica, so that, so publicly, so bravely asked and asked the question. We haven't heard of any pressure from any similar parties, internationals outside when it comes to Velika Gorica, not to coalition with HSP. We're not ashamed of the HSP coalition. If you're ashamed, that's your problem. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53549	Honored representativeplatimir Mršić.z
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53550	So I have to admit that there was an unusual way to answer the question asked not about how anyone understands and what it refers to. I simply asked the prime minister if you would call the election or would the authorities in those units of local self-government remain in the purchased mandates? Apparently, he'll stay on the purchases, and as far as the law that I haven't asked you anything about, right? He simply does not prevent the trade in council terms. He only edits the hours of trade in council terms, so it is obvious that HDZ still needs the trade only now in short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53551	I beg you, you will also ask questions and will give the Prime Minister and others, but let's not enter the disqualification zone. I ask all MPs not to, let's not, why, why, through the question should one party be blacked out and honored to her that she works, that she works on a certain trade time with a councilman. It causes, you can say that, but it causes evil blood, it causes insults, it causes answers to the other side, and that, let's not do that, please. ... Dear representative Milanka Opačić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53552	I'm asking the Prime Minister the question. A dozen days ago, a phonogram of the government's session was published in a daily newspaper where you personally decided, despite your ministers' warnings, not to forgive the Government of Zecu and Stone-Ingrad 30 million kuna at the expense of taxpayers. I'm asking you, Mr. Prime Minister, for a very precise and brief answer. Is the phonogram published accurate or not? Please, a very short answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53553	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53554	Madam representative, you won't get a brief answer, you'll get the answer I want. I'm asking for respect if I'm opposed to the party. So you're not going to get a brief answer, you're going to get the answer you deserve, and that answer is this. At the government meeting when the issue was being discussed, I asked for two, I had two requests. The first was that it was all by law, that nothing could go past the law, and I would insist on it no matter who it was. Regardless of the fact that it's an inherited case that you haven't solved, you've loaded the next government on our bones. That's one thing, and the other I said as a second, but not that that would derivate the first request must be to secure the jobs of 700 people who work there and if you're a socially sensitive party like us and like this government then you would support it, but since you're not asking that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53555	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53556	That, by old custom, I can never get a concrete answer from you. So it was a very precise question whether it was a phonogram that was published correctly or not. You said some things in your answer that I didn't ask. However, the fact is that you have confirmed by your behaviour that the phonogram is correct, because if it weren't correct, you wouldn't be sending the POA here to the Parliament and searching the Assembly officials and asking about who gave the phonogram to the public. Therefore, you confirmed by that fact that the phonogram was absolutely correct and that you, by your decision, did not release the Government of the Rabbit from paying less than 30 million kunas by the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53557	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53558	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. I'm asking the Prime Minister a question. Evey Sanader, and of course, he'll probably be answering Minister Calmet because he's from his area, but it's about you, too. In the Croatian sky, otherwise, it is very alive, very live air navigation and past governments have invested a lot of money to enable Croatian flight control to be trained to control not only the Croatian sky but also the sky of neighbouring countries as well. That is why I am asking why the Government, or State Secretary Mr. Breglec, signed the Declaration from the conference of eight Member States of the Central European Centres of Flight Control, which will give up control of its airspace, which we have at least made 30 million euros annually.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53559	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53560	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, it is not true that the Secretary of State signed it. I mean, when we mention CEAC, then I have to say it's still '97. years of suffocation, delays, etc. in airspaces over 9000 m The Republic of Croatia signed the CEAC agreement but it was 1997. However, the agreement has never been ratified and has not been ratified so far. It contains 7 countries in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Italy, and this agreement has not been ratified by Slovenia except Croatia, and Italy is coming out of the agreement. In fact, part of northern Italy was in the agreement, and the agreement has not been revived today. We, therefore, have not ratified it, but we are talking about what benefits Croatia would benefit from accessing such an agreement and that if we refer it to ratification, Croatia would benefit from it. In this sense we proposed that Zagreb be a reserve destination, etc. etc. But I'm saying that nothing has been solved or defined so far. On the other hand, we can ask the following question. This is one set of Central European countries that I think and where we should be when it comes to airspace control. Another alternative is likely for Croatia not to be with these countries, but for Croatia to be part of Western Balkan countries that would then be controlled by the specific airspace. I'm always up for it, and I believe you in this first group of countries that I've listed before. But I repeat, since '97. When it has been signed so far, nothing is signed but only discussed and is sought if this project, although it is questionable, because Italy has already come out of it, Slovenia has not ratified it. She probably thinks she will or won't, too. But if he, as such, composes or changes that, then Croatia has as much benefit from it as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53561	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53562	I have to say, I'm not completely satisfied with the answer. For the sake of the Croatian public, I would personally ask myself to receive a comprehensive and detailed written reply with an explanation. The Prime Minister himself said that we all have responsibility for something and it is not disputed which group of states we want to belong to. But the citizens chose us all, but the greatest responsibility is in place. It means the Government to allow for a higher standard of Croatian citizens, not to sign any agreements and because we want to be among a group of citizens, to make it impossible for Croatian citizens to have a higher standard and not to earn more and better on demanding and highly paid jobs than we are going to be in a group of countries just for this signing of the contract. So, Croatian citizens are asking that we have a capable government, not that we buy our incompetence or Europe's fondness with Croatian goods, Croatian property and inability to earn high quality and demanding jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53563	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53564	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Government with the ministers. I would like to refer my question to the foreign minister, Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. As a member of the parliamentary delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, together with his colleagues, I have already had one long series of meetings of the parliamentary assembly to witness that there is a very great effort and desire for parliamentarians from other states to join Croatia. Also, in view of our dimension and this parliamentary dimension, I am quite sure that there has been an even very high consensus of all states around Croatia's rapid and rapid entry into NATO. I must mention here that today, the current president of the Parliamentary Assembly, Mr Pierre Laluš, clearly and with great effort and engagement, advocates his personal interest as quickly as possible to Croatia's entry into NATO and publicly speaks about the fact that Croatia will gain and strengthen the status of a safe country with a low level of business risk, the possibility of participating in scientific, technological, informational environments of the most developed states and economic participation with the most developed countries and in the military area. We sometimes come into the situation to see that in some ways parliamentary positions differ from individual positions of individual governments, so please answer how they are assessed from your position of relations between the Republic of Croatia and NATO and what brings the participation of the Republic of Croatia in various military missions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53565	Thank you. Minister Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53566	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Representative, certainly the membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO remains one of the fundamental foreign-political priorities with the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. NATO is not just a military alliance for us, but certainly a system of values, common values for the expansion of peace, global stability, democracy, etc. Croatia is in an advanced phase of achieving its ambitions in NATO membership, and we really hope that the evaluation of reforms that Croatia is carrying out on all plans, from political to defence reforms, will be positively assessed and based on Croatia being invited to join NATO as soon as possible. And we hope that already during 2006, during the summit this year we could get such indications. Allied support is extremely important, both the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and bilaterally. I must also highlight the two resolutions of the US Congress in the House of Representatives and the Senate that have unanimously supported Croatia's membership in NATO, a very good co-operation with a number of countries in that direction, ahead of Monday's visit to NATO Secretary-General Scheffer and a speech before the North Atlantic Council, where we will also argue that Croatia deserves to be invited to join as soon as possible. During the first six months, we chair the American-Adriatic Charter, the A3 initiative. In mid-February, I will personally participate in a ministerial meeting in Washington. We will organise a meeting of Foreign Ministers and Defence Initiative A3 with Baltic countries this year in Brijuni to take advantage of their experiences and support. In July, we will also hold a conference on NATO and I think that in this way and more and more, we will profile NATO's role and inform the Croatian public about the real values and the real role Croatia will play in NATO and what advantages membership will bring. Surely participation in peace operations is extremely important. In this way, modern flexible special military forces are built, and our engagement is highly appreciated, especially in Afghanistan where the decision of the Croatian Parliament will set the number of participants from 50 raised to 150. However, I must also point out that the appointment of our diplomat, for example, in Afghanistan, to the chief political adviser of the High Civilian Representative of Chetin and also to the recognition of Croatia and Croatia's engagement in the framework of peace operations and NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53567	Thank you. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53568	Thank you very much. Well, by expressing my satisfaction with this answer, I would like to point out, however, that in this very part of your response, where you said that there is a period ahead of us to explain to the Croatian public about all aspects of NATO, especially this civilian aspect, is something that awaits us both here in Parliament and you in the executive government in the future. Because I think that the Croatian public and citizens must be particularly familiar with the very fact that we will be invited to join NATO in order not to be as small a support as it is right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53569	Thank you. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53570	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Croatian government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Mr. Neven Ljubic, Minister of Health. Due to the high sensitivity of the areas that are being regulated, but also some moves that have respected the public's voice have been withdrawn, the Ministry of Health and Social Care has been one of the most exposed in public over the past year. These days you've met the public with the health reform. Please, Mr. Minister, answer me what the health strategy is in the coming period, which are its basic features, and what projects you are preparing as part of the strategy for improving the Croatian health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53571	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53572	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, these are the very days we're ending up with me with a crucial document in that segment. It is, in fact, a national health strategy involving, among other things, pre-accession basics, which is based on what we want to do in order to be a very fast and full member of the European Union. What's extremely important here to say. It is true, we are preparing a comprehensive overall reform that we were actually based on our numerous contacts, both with the profession and with the social partners, and what we were actually talking about the whole time. As it is actually a very broad theme, I will, of course, try to summarise what is possible in shorter lines and give actual indications of what it is specifically about. The dominant procedures in view of the reform will therefore be in the organisational sense. So I'm just going to count a few things that seem extremely significant to me. One of them is standardizing hospitals. Something we all know as categorization, accreditation of hospitals where for the first time we will be able to see clearly who, what, how can it work. Of course, this is where we are based on politerntriism and regional development, which has been clearly pointed out several times by both the Prime Minister and the entire government. The information of the primary healthcare system, and perhaps this is an opportunity to announce, will be fully completed by the end of this year, with the pilot already in one project, we have already begun to connect the primary medical care and it will be a major step. We also start this year with a project to inform hospitals. I must admit that we are greatly benefiting from the experiences of other neighboring countries with which we have already established excellent relations. Here's another word, and that's about island medicine. This is an opportunity, listening to actually some comments that telemedicine is something that's actually bad. Well, if it were bad, it wouldn't actually be common on February 1st, there would be a big tele-mediet, which is the sponsors of the health ministers and women of the Republic of Austria and the Ministry of Health and Social Care who are currently involved in telemedicine and island medicine. And that is why we will return to the islands the health homes we announced. There is also a change in education in this reform approach. We have an extremely good fit of being a doctor, making nurses, but they are not recognized in the European Union. Why? Because the education system that exists at the moment, and we're talking about the system of specialization, is not designed for Europe, and that's what we're actually doing right now, and that's what the catalogue of knowledge is involved in, and that's what medical college coordination is, for the first time, founded in Croatia, all the chambers and therefore, of course, professional associations are involved. Also in the system of secondary medical education we return the specialization system that existed 20 years ago and some years ago, which was in fact kind of abolished in particular between 2000 and 2003. Also, what is significant, we will change the system of funding both primary health care and hospital care. In the period from 2000 to 2003, hospitals began to finance themselves indistinguishably, they started to finance themselves by some kind of... by some strange criteria, one payment was introduced according to a therapeutic procedure that caused a great consternation between management, but also among all actually scientific workers. [[You don't understand.]] We want to establish a system of what neighbouring countries have, Austria, Slovenia, and that means that the actual way of funding is the same as it is in these countries, and here is the occasion, the pilot started a project in four major hospitals, a clinical hospital, a larger and smaller hospital, and we wait for the first results. So the activity is extremely much, about this we could probably actually devote a lot more time, but this is in the shortest lines what will lead to a better and better system of course directed for end-users, and these are our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53573	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53574	Thank you very much. This government has the courage, knowledge and will to go into health reform and I am glad that you have also included health reform and strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53575	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53576	Honorable gentlemen, president and members of the government. I want to ask the Prime Minister the question. I read the newspaper and I simply cannot believe that Croatian union leaders have accepted that within five years and perhaps even before, it means that within five years and perhaps before, all Croatian citizens will pay 15% of the health services provided. Here are the unions accepted, all will pay 15% of the health services. So according to this heart surgery that today costs 66,000 kuna, participation would be somewhere around 10,000 kuna. The installation of the Pace Maker 32 thousand kuna, the participation would be 5 thousand kuna. The installation of an artificial hip of 27 thousand kuna, the participation would be 4 thousand kuna. There's a clear question of who can afford it at all. For many, this administrative fee of 10 kuna per month, at a maximum of 30 kuna, is a huge expense, and these participations of hospital treatment can simply ruin many. So the question is, did the union leaders as we're told, yesterday with you, Mr. President, accept this proposal as they accepted six or seven months ago and abandoning the protests on Mark's square. I am afraid that the introduction of these participations in the future will only come to the payment of insurance policies which will enormously collect and on the other hand clearly health services which Croatia in some way returns to the worst form of capitalism regardless of which certain categories are disabled, defenders etc. Freed from participation. I agree that this is not the time for politicisation, because if this problem is not solved by this government, it will be dealt with by the future. However, once again, I would like to say, and to say that I do not believe that union leaders simply accept such a proposal as is being written today by all the diaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53577	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53578	Well, first of all, Mr. Representative, it's not exactly what you've been quoting. We started a debate with the social partners on how and how much the ratio should go right now at this point, at this point I stress, which does not mean that sometimes in the future it will not go in the right health reform, if at this point it can go in health reform. And we put out one very well I'd say a good proposal that takes care of what you're saying. Nothing union representatives, I have to defend them here, because this interpretation you said is absolutely incorrect and incorrect, they didn't agree to anything or let anything go. It is the fact that we have established what is the situation, that there will be another discussion Friday at the health ministry with the minister and a member of the task force for reform, in which it will go into detail. But it's also the fact that we've done one analysis and that we've brought it out and that all the people who participated in that meeting are responsible people who have seen that this can't go on and that we have to do something. But it's still not the time I repeat, to go into a major serious health reform. This time will come as I said just before when it came to pension reform, perhaps in a few years when you strengthen the Croatian economy and strengthen the standard of Croatian citizens, and in this sense you do not have to shed crocodile tears, because these are people who are very concerned about the facts that can be taken care of today and which cannot be, together with us. We call upon the responsibility of all, we invite them, they respond to that responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53579	Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53580	I quote: The trade unions agreed with the comments of the section led by Mr Hebrang, that Croatian citizens should participate in the payment of 15% of all health services over the next three to five years. I'm looking forward to this answer because I don't want anything the Health Minister himself gives up on, now he's coming back to us through the union. The fact is simply indisputable, that at this point one such social blow must not be able to withstand two or three million citizens of the Republic of Croatia, although I agree that the financial situation is in health regardless of whether it is general hospitals, clinical hospital centres, etc. simply intolerable or this problem will be dealt with by this government or will be dealt with by that future government, but I think that one such blow in three to five years is difficult for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to endure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53581	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53582	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister. The Minister of Health and Social Care announces significant changes in this and today speaks here, in a health system which continues to be financially, to the greatest extent, will actually affect the users of health services. 15% of participations are announced, two lists of medicines, additional insurance that will be transferred to market bases, and others have actually started several months ago to abolish the austerity measures, eliminating the right to participation of transport costs to parents of sick children. An administrative tax has been introduced in health care, and now the proposed measures will, in fact, make health care impossible for the large number of poorest citizens. You promised me here, Mr. Sanader, a few months ago that you would solve the problem of parents of sick children who drive children to therapy several times a week. And now you're proposing to them a foundation that parents actually consider a charity. And I'm wondering where your guarantee card got caught promising to raise the standard to the citizens, and today under the pressure of the IMF, you're actually burdening the citizens with increasing financial expenditure. Although in these two years, you are significantly increasing the state budget. I'm asking you, will you finally do something about reforming the health system in the system instead of transferring all the irrationalities of this system to the citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53583	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53584	Your Honor, Madam Representative, what I told you the last time we're going to do that. I stand behind my words, and if it hasn't been settled yet, that's just the reason we want to agree with the social partners, with the unions, but the solution specifically to the transport is going. What I promised, don't turn your head, when I tell you it's going, then it's going. Unlike you, I didn't take off my rights to patients, I didn't take off my rights to the citizens. You were taking them off, and now you're asking us what's wrong with what you did, and why don't we get it back? Well, you need to ask yourself why you took that off? Why did you take that off? That the Croatian public knows that, too. Who took down the real patients? The former government. We're trying to get it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53585	Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53586	I don't understand why you, Mr. Prime Minister, are nervous? Yeah, they're nervous every time I ask you about it. [[I'm nervous?]] It's about the most, please, listen to me. I listened to you. It's about the youngest citizens of our country, the sick, the powerless, whom one parent must devote 24-hour care to during the day. That you did with the 1.10th of last year is this law, the amendments to the law have come into force and now... [[/Intruder: Why did you take away their rights?]] Oh, come on, I'm used to you denying what you've done. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53587	Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53588	And he really is like this, this isn't worthy of the Prime Minister or the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53589	And what have I given you now?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53590	And please, the written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53591	Please, what am I responsible for? ... Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53592	And I'm going to beg a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53593	Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Mršić has already asked the question, but I would have extended the question a little bit. So, this circus trade that's been going on for the last six months, and that's mostly played down at the bar, you know. How I spend a lot of time at the coffee shop, and then I'm a witness to those shops, and then I hear something, I see something, I record something. And I know very well how it happened, and as you were a thank God expert on it, in the early '95s, you traded in Split and translated 5 council members from the then ruling coalition government into HDZ and the mayor because you had few 5 councillors. What are you going to change the mayor, and all in order for the late Mr. President of Freedom Train to arrive in the city where HDZ's mayor is. Well, he hasn't changed, he just changed the party. So you're an expert on that. I would ask you to answer me. Since there's a price set for MPs. The price is 250 thousand a year, therefore, for the transition to independent representatives. And I know there's still some thinking about crossing. I would like to ask, if you have appointed a price list for councilors of the county, town halls, town councilors and municipal councillors. Because it would be good to know, if the public knew, that we knew how to move forward. Yes, thank God we stick to what we hold in Croatia, that democracy is flawed, even questionable. Because I think it is rare in Croatia to find any representative body where most in the representative body corresponds to most in the electoral body. That's a rare thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53594	Thank you. Answer the question, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53595	Mr. Representative. I'm very fond of your style of asking questions. And these identities you've been talking about since the '90s, but HDZ is a party that, since the early '90s, since the '89s, practically when we were founded, has followed a very clear one policy to this day. And in that policy we never asked our councilmen to pay us what you're saying now, to pay us for our council mandate. As you asked Mr. Ivica Valek to pay you, I do not know how much the mandate costs in the Zagreb City Assembly. And the man said it publicly. Therefore, please, at no time has this party ever had such a practice as you had.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53596	Representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53597	I'm sorry, I didn't mention a word of HDZ. I mentioned Mr. Prime Minister who traded and bought five councilmen and mayors in 95 after the Storm and before the Freedom Government. And I didn't say anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53598	Dear Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53599	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy. It is known that during last year, almost 835 million or even more kunas of damage have been committed from natural disasters, mostly since the beating, in various parts of Croatia. As far as I am aware, however, only three counties have received compensation and citizens have received compensation for these basic disasters. The last seems to me the county directly received funds from your ministry in the 12th month of 2005. So since the State Commission has also recognised other counties, primarily the counties in which I was elected, so Varazdin, Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorje, also certain damages caused by fighting and other forms of elemental disasters. I'm asking you, why haven't the damages and these counties been paid? Will the damage be paid during this year so that we, of course, and as representatives and citizens know whether they will be compensated, or can I count on those funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53600	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53601	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, here's unfortunately over the last year we had some really big elemental damages, partly tied up, mostly tied to an ice fight, and partly tied to floods. The fact is that this ministry is trying and that it has provided a means to co-finance insurance as one of the types of compensation to those dealing with agriculture and in this context we provide and pay 25% of the total premium of insurance for agricultural crops and cultures. The same is the fact that some units do so both regional (area) self-government and local self-government, thus creating a better assumption that farmers with damage to the elemental accident would make up for it. As regards direct damages and your inquiry, I can answer that for damages from natural disasters and the competent state commission appointed by the Croatian Parliament and that it does, confirms the damages, verifies and makes a proposal for distribution and compensation for damages. As for your inquiry regarding the Bjelovar-Belova County, I will answer that... The damage that was in that space was 100 percent damage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For these reasons, the Ministry of Agriculture proposed to the government and the government adopted to implement a certain amount of assistance I would say to these producers because it was the largest I would say the amount of damage. We often have estimates that in the beginning of post-elementary accidents are estimates not of 50, 60%, but later in the course of vegetation and ultimately in harvest or harvest it turns out that it is not such a size of damage but that it is something significantly less. This was an extremely elemental accident where the actual damage was 100 percent. For these reasons, a proposal was made to assist these agricultural producers and therefore certain financial resources were provided, partly from the government's current reserve, and partly from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53602	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53603	Mr. Minister, I'm glad that you helped, I didn't know which county was the word and I didn't even name it, but two other counties received partial damages and I would ask for the criteria to be established and that then the state commission that determines the damages submitted to this House to see why, for example, the Varazdin County or County, I repeat once again that I represent in the Croatian Parliament did not get the criteria, although there were parts of the county, so parts of the territory of those counties which had 100 percent of the damage because I think that commission as well as the government must in some way close their eyes and not look at which county was concerned, but whether the damage was done or not. Therefore, if the damage is found to have been done in my county, then I would ask that we really correct it and that during this year we damage these farmers that you know and know how hard they are living, how hard they are to do, and yet here, unfortunately, they have to allocate funds in view of the fact that they didn't have the nature they planned. I beg you, let us have such a report to see if it was really done by justice or if someone has been admitted more damage, someone has not been admitted at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53604	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53605	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister with his associates. My question is to ask Mrs. Justice Minister Mrs. Vesni Skare-Ozbolt and what is specifically said. What is the Ministry of Justice preparing and doing in connection with proceedings before the Hague Court and how are preparations for the Hague processes mainly prepared by a friend of the court, given their specific procedural position?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53606	Justice Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53607	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, the answer to this question that the Ministry of Justice is preparing and working in connection with the upcoming prosecution of war crimes is primarily in the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office, given that they are initiating and directing investigations, and then raising charges against the perpetrators of war crimes, and what the Ministry of Justice is doing very actively to ensure quality work and preparation and prepare both judges and state lawyers for the trial of war crimes, these are specific seminars that we have done, there were 6, creating all material and technical conditions that trials can also be transferred here, resulting in the final and transfer of the first case of Ademi-Norac to the Croatian judiciary, which in fact proved that the Croatian judiciary is fully qualified and fully qualified and impartially and conduct such proceedings. The Council for the Preparation of Friends of the Court began on 30 June 2004 and I must say very intensively to prepare the materials needed to challenge parts of the indictment of the type of joint criminal association, the type of ethnic cleansing. The advice for preparing friends of the court has so far collected very... the documentation, prepared the the thesis and answers to these unacceptable parts of the indictments, systematically analyses everything coming from the documentation and actively prepares to appear at the International Criminal Court in which the Republic of Croatia intends to engage through the Institute of Friends of the Court as soon as those assumptions that have been laid down in the Hague Court of Justice have been fulfilled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will just remind that this advice of a friend the court has very actively helped and succeeded together with the Ministry of Justice to get the Ademi-Norac case in Croatia, thus showing itself to be very serious, of course we with the content of what we do cannot go public, it is objectively understandable, but it will come when there is a moment, you will see what has been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53608	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53609	I thank you for your comprehensive response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53610	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53611	Gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament and Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. I refer my question to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Bishop. Mr. Minister, on 10 December 2004, the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War entered into force. The quality and responsible work of the memorial centre is a prerequisite for the successful and effective defence of all Croatian defenders and Croatian generals in front of The Hague Court and in the country. My brief question to you is how the memorial center was organized and what was done as a function of the memorial center.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53612	Thank you. Minister of Culture Bozidar Biskupić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53613	Mr. President, Madam Representative! Six months ago, you better say July 1st last year the Parliament appointed the Administrative Council. After that, the statutes and other legal acts have been adopted, no competition has been carried out for the director and for the employees. I can tell you that 11 employees work at this memorial center today. During that period, he had a memorial centre of numerous programming activities and educational activities. Lectures were held on the military-related operation "Bleak", on the release of the western part of Slavonia that period in the fall-in winter of 1991, prepared an authorial exhibition on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the military-raid operation "Storm" in Knin. Then they collected lists of archive materials from the Homeland War in all state archives, as well as all other material holders associated with the period. So, what we wanted, now in one place you can find a list as needed for each user. In one place, they'll find a list of complete materials. A private library is being formed on the subject of Homeland Work, taking part in the celebration of the 14th annual occupation of Vukovar, working to collect documents for the defence of Croatian generals indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the Ex-Yugoslavia. And in cooperation with the State Archives, they began to arrange the material of the collection of documents of civil, police and military institutions, so-called "the Civil, Police and Military Institutions". Republika Srpska province. The centre actively participated in the Round Table on the Wall of Pain, within this educational work, on the scientific colloquium "Domovinski rat 1991-1995."on the Round Table Mother's Initiative, the Mother's Peace Initiative. And so far, he's been collecting 2,000 422 boxes of original civilian, police and military records. Republika Srpska landscape and materials. About 10,000 shots. The Croatian Information Centre gave way to the material. Also, the material so-called. Republika Srpska's more than 50 DVDs with Homeland War footage, which means more than 70 hours of Homeland War records, videos, original videos, videos of Vukovar in 1991 and 62 tapes with professional... The legacy of the late cameraman Tihomir Tunukovic is only one part of the activities carried out by employees together with the director. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think in these half-years of envious activity that we've just recently granted them an increase in the number of employees, I think it's going to start even better now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53614	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53615	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We witness it ourselves every day. The revision of Croatian history does not stop. In the hope that the Memorial Center of the Homeland War will play a historic role so that we don't get what happened to our children or great-grandfathers after 50 years fighting for the truth about the Homeland War as we are now fighting for the truth from 41 to 45. Well, here I am using the situation, i.e. as a representative at the Croatian Parliament, all representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public, to assist the Memorial center of the Homeland War in gathering the complete documentation of the Homeland War of the most famous history of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53616	Thank you. Dear Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53617	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with his associates! Here, I refer my question to the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Shuker. Mr Minister, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia made on 28 October 2005 the privatisation of Belje d.d. and on 10 November 2005, the Minister of Finance's decision dismissed the debt to the same company Belje in total amounting to around 224 million kuna. I don't mind the write-offs to certain companies that refer to the debt to the state but you, Mr. Minister, have also written off that society's debt to the units of local, regional and regional self-government of around 22 million kuna. So it was written off someone else's debt, not debt to the state. I believe that's your solution against the constitution. And you also violated two laws on the financing of local self-government and the Law on areas of special state care. My question is, Mr. Minister, will you return that money to local self-government and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53618	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53619	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! If the whole question were solved from this point on, as you said, Mr. Representative, then maybe it would be just like you said. However, it should be known that for many years PIC Belje and PIK Vrbovac have annually created a loss of more than 100 million kuna. At the time of privatisation, so when it was announced and the Croatian Fund opened a privatisation tender for PIC Belje and PIK Vrbovac was a normal commitment to the state budget, according to the budget of the units of local self-government and so-called competitions both during the last coalition government and for these governments simply could not find anyone interested in buying these companies. So, based on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not on the basis of the decision of the Minister of Finance, because the finance minister has neither such power nor legal possibility, a contract on the sale of the PIC of Belje was proposed. However, a certain write-off was made. Publicly and transparently, this was done at a cabinet session as did the government not once when an assessment was made that such a procedure would ensure that the employees of these companies will be able to work first and that these companies will be able to function normally. So, looking at the financial effect in the future, then this write-off is negligible because every job at a time when Croatia has about 290-300 thousand unemployed every contribution of that employee to the growth of the gross domestic product is invaluable compared to what you say the funds have been written off to local self-government units. You had such a case during the sale of Diona where it happened during the last government where the government made a decision not to write off but to sell its claims at a discount of 99.9% but with one basic goal, that this company does not create a multi-annual loss to the state of 100 million kuna but with the aim of hiring in the company to work, that this company is profitable and as I said, the number of unemployed and that this company with its positive business is one of the entities in the growth of the gross domestic product that we all love to talk about so much. We'd love to talk about how much we'd like it to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53620	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53621	Mr. Minister, I am not pleased with your answer because I did not say that you are by your decision but by your decision the basis of the government's decision. As a second thing, Mr. Minister, I'm familiar with that, and I said that we don't mind a write-off, but not someone else's debt. I know that the society still does not fulfil its obligations means they do not settle, it does not settle debts to the state and to local self-government, so I suppose it is with certainty that the Ministry or the Government and the Ministry of Finance will continue to write off their debts to that society. It is inadmissible, Mr. Minister, that the Ministry of Finance of that society's debts will be brought down to zero kuna, and then leave that zero kuna generously to the local self-government for the development of its fallen economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53622	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53623	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, and here, given that Zagreb County has a lot of agricultural producers, and even more opportunities for further development here, I am asking Mr. Petar Cobanković. The amendment of the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry has led to new developments in the management of differences in the way commercial and non-commercial farmers are encouraged. As a result, it is clear that the commercial economies are the holders of agricultural production and the core that must be restructured. And starting with that fact, the law gives them different models of support. Since the production incentive model has reached its maximum, we finally know who our producers are full of nursing households and it is essential that there will be no development or increase of production without capital investments. Now questions about how much funds are allocated to the 2006 capital investment model, how much in 2005 were especially compared to earlier years and how much farmers are interested in this model of incentive and if you know from which production has the most interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53624	Thank you. Minister Petar Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53625	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. You've figured out exactly that there are different models and that certain models give certain results. It's true that this ministry's intensities are that we're going towards a separation of commercials from non-commercial producers. In this context, we also adapted the support models to this, I would say, the context of the separation of farmers. For non-commercial producers, agricultural producers have been provided with support for income or income support that we have adjusted and increased the amount by last amending and amending the law, so that in this context, in 2004 and 2005, we have recorded quite good results, and this is what one newspaper said to non-sustainable producers and shows social sensitivity to them in order to solve their problems and to remove them from the overall incentive of the rest. As regards this second model of investment support for capital investments, they are absolutely in the function of increasing investment in agriculture. And that's exactly what it takes to further develop agriculture. And as for the direct question, I will answer you. For 2006, the budget provides for investment support for capital investments of 90 million kuna. It's one of the segments. But we also have the support, let's take the same investment support these are support for co-financing of the construction of fishing vessels where 34 million kunas are scheduled this year and we have co-financing of construction in livestock farming, the construction of cattle farms and the new programme of pig farms where 50 million are also provided, which all accounts for somewhere around 164 million, 164 million kunas for investment support. These are significant assets, and I must stress that there is also a great interest. Speaking of previous years, I would like to point out that in 2004, in 2005, we paid off a circus of 80 million investment support. In 2004, the amount was 64 million, and in 2003 when this model was launched, only 14 million kunas were paid. So the interest in this form of model exists and it's in the interests of the Ministry because that's how we increase investment. Perhaps even more to say that the maximum amount of investment support per user is 250,000 kuna. As a rule, it goes up to 25%. There can be no greater than 250,000 kuna except for the programmes in livestock where this limit, the limit of 500 thousand kuna, and let's take to co-finance the construction... The freezer was 2 and a half million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the construction of fishing vessels, the model is 10% co-financed by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development and the Ministry of Economy, labour and entrepreneurship, which is a 30% co-financing. So this 34 million needs to be added two more times because they add the Ministry of the Sea and the Ministry of Economy. So these are certain models that should be in the function of better and faster development of Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53626	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53627	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I mean, we're all aware of the fact that food imports are quite large and the only way to reduce this is to increase the quality production of agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53628	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the 18 questions are absolute. There were 30 in total, 38 of them. We'll take 30 minutes to 12 and 10. First in line, the Honorable Representative Marko Širac. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Prime Minister, ministers, continue with the current morning. Dear Representative Marko Širac is asking a representative question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53630	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I will ask Mr. Minister, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy Mr. Peter Cobankovic. Since 1 January of this year, the Republic of Croatia has at its disposal significant funds for the adjustment of agriculture, i.e. for the development of rural areas, from before the SAPARD accession programme. My question is: What the ministry has done so far at the implementation of this pre-accession programme to meet potential users with this programme, and what made it possible for the ministry to make the available funds to be used as much as possible through the realisation of quality projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53631	Thank you. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53632	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Let me say it in a few words. The SAPARD programme is in front of an approach programme designed to adapt agriculture and rural development by the European Commission. Its total amount is EUR 25 million. This is aid from the European Commission plus 8m euros, which is a domestic component or rather the total potential of the SAPARD Fund is 33m euros. In order to make use of the SAPARD programme at all, it was necessary to draw up a plan for agriculture and rural development and to establish and accredit the SAPARD Agency. As far as the plan is concerned, I can say that the plan has been made, that the plan has passed and part of the public debate has been delivered to the European Commission where I can say that on 14 December of last year it passed after all consultations and that it has passed the start of the committee and that we expect that it will be adopted by the European Commission's Agriculture Council this first month. Three measures are provided for in the plan itself. The first measure is investment in agricultural economies, where we put a special emphasis on the milk, meat and eggs sector. Then, to the fruit and vegetable sector and the cereals and olives sector. This part is intended for agricultural holdings. The second measure is the improvement, processing and marketing of agricultural and fish products and is also intended for processing and marketing in the dairy sector, in the meat and meat processing sector, in the fisheries sector and in the fruit and vegetables sector. The third measure is the development and improvement of rural infrastructure and is practically designed to improve and establish better infrastructure in rural areas. When we talk about co-financing methods, I must stress that for these first two measures 50% of grants are co-financed, while for the third measure 100 percent co-financing is foreseen. So we can say that the plan for agriculture and rural development is over and that, as far as the plan is concerned, practical application can begin. Another important segment is the establishment and accreditation of the SAPARD agency. I must stress that, in agreement with the Government and the European Commission, we have decided that the SAPARD Agency should be composed for the time being of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy or better put forward as part of our Directorate for Market and Structural Support. In this context, we carried out the necessary teaming, employment. The matter of space for the SAPARD agency has been resolved and has been intensively worked on drafting procedures. This is an extremely demanding and large job for each measure and under the measure must be designed special procedures that speak from, meaning from the moment of receipt of the request to the processing and realization of the requirements and can say that so far it has been done and that it is about 1200 pages of the text of these procedures. As far as accreditation is concerned, we expect to have national accreditation by the end of the second month, in fact, which is the assumption that we can refer the requests to the European Commission for international accreditation of the SAPARD Agency. I would also like to point out, one sentence to finish, that we will run intensive promotional activity, that in this context we will go with the printing of a special manual and that on the ground we will meet everyone interested in how they can be users of this in front of the access fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53633	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53634	Mr. President, here is the response from Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy that the implementation and implementation of the SAPARD programme for truth in the Republic of Croatia has been done a great deal, so here I am glad that the government has provided an additional 8m euros for the implementation of this programme. These are huge funds when summed up to 240, 250 million kunas for the adjustment of agriculture and with these activities that we, that is, the Government will in the coming period do all that is necessary for the realization of this project and for the cost of the funds for the benefit of our citizens and economic operators living in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53635	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53636	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. Question for Mr. Minister Vukelic. A new price-priced wave of gasoline cannot be justified by anything. The price of barrels of oil on the world market is now 64 dollars, and the price of gasoline was lower when the price of barrels was $70. That, you'll admit, is really absurd. The first to be killed are carriers whose fuel is currently participating by 40%. Obviously, we are now expected to see a wave of gatherings, other gatherings that are related to the price of fuel, and inflation is also smiling, so the governor of the Croatian National Bank himself has recently accused the rise in fuel prices for the pumping of inflation. The price of Eurosuper 95 is only 1 lip less than that of the famous border that Mr. Sanader's government has declared an alarming point, which is the price, it should be the price of 8 kuna. So now it's just, the entire government hangs on that 1 lip, i.e. The authenticity of that claim. The question, Mr. Ministers, for you, is what the Government, which really, here, is now so figuratively holding on to this lime, intends to do to curb further fuel price growth, and especially when I don't think there's any excuse to, say, grow fuel in the world market.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53637	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53638	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, energy is particularly important for the standard of citizens and every resident of our country, but it is also important for the economy and the fact is that over the whole last year we had a lot to say about work and that this is exactly what the Croatian government has done when it comes to the price of energy. I think it's important to say, because it's not just the price of oil or gasoline. What is important for the economy is the price of electricity, it is the price of gas, so I will remind you that this Croatian government and as far as gas is concerned has practically stopped both those demands and wishes to increase ahead of this season. Similarly, when it comes to electricity, the demand for HEP was halved, and also as regards oil derivatives, the government's intervention and recommendations and practically in some way and the burden of possible profits increased through the INA and profits for the owner, so the state stopped growth, trend, a very severe concept last year of oil prices. Prices under the rules applicable to oil derivatives in Croatia are not determined on the basis of the price of barrels of crude oil, but based on the price of oil derivatives on the Mediterranean market. So it's a rule book that's been there for years. And we can therefore not watch as the price of barrels of crude oil rise and compare whether this increases oil products, the price of oil derivatives defined by the Regulation, because, I repeat, the price is related to the price of oil derivatives. So the diesel, the lot of oil, or Super's gasoline and all the products that we have. And this price that is now is the price that is therefore in the spirit of the rule that exists, valid. But also by intervention by the Croatian government and agreement with the INA in some way further, I would say above the rise in oil derivatives prices on the Mediterranean market. And what I can say is, the new regulation is in this year's making, the rule that needs to be followed by its correction regarding and changing customs duties that are one of the segments in oil prices and we will continue to follow through and through that regulation and correction in that regulation the prices that are on the Mediterranean market, Europe and the world and try to lead such a policy that the Croatian Government has so far led not to allow the price of energy in Croatia, so that oil derivatives poses a greater threat to the stability of economic flows, but also to the standards of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53639	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53640	Mr. Minister, and I would, although you can't answer me right now, but I have to ask, and what about excise duties, what about VAT? Why isn't there a space the state could find to lower the price of oil derivatives? After all, the rise in the state budget for this year was 8%. Why wasn't he smaller, so you could save there on, is that, that the government that percentage here oversaw so that it wouldn't hit the price rise in Croatia and hit the citizens' pockets? And indeed, we remember those posters with the long noses of Pinocchio around about the fuel. So I'm asking one prize question. Will Pinocchio's nose grow all the way to Tokyo now?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53641	Expressing satisfaction or dissatisfaction is one thing, and noses are the other. Dear Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53642	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. I refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr Bozidar Kalmeti. Dear Mr. Minister, the plan to build public roads from December 2004 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the area of Imotska krajina is planned to reconstruct the section of road D60 from Lovrec to Imotski and the section of road D62 from Šjeanovac to Zagvozd. It's about stocks that are in very poor shape, so I hope they'll be restored during this year. As planned by 2008 the highway will be built to Zagvozd node, the dominant corridor for the Imot region and Hercegovina, will become the Zagvozd – Imotski – border crossing of Vinjani Donji over which it crosses on average about 4 and a half thousand vehicles daily. It is therefore a matter of new transport circumstances in the area mentioned and I believe that a new transport study should be developed and construction programmes coordinated according to the findings of such a study. My question is, what do your ministry and Croatian roads take to get Imotska krajina a quality traffic solution by connecting on the Zagreb – Split – Dubrovnik highway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53643	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53644	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, the Croatian Government has adopted a programme, a four-year programme of building and maintenance of public roads and in that programme, as you have said yourself, there are several important and important sections concerning the Imot region. It's a reconstruction, practically almost even a new road, is it, it's one really basic reconstruction from the program... State roads D39, Cista Provo – Sjeanovac, which is 8 kilometers long, then D60 Lovrec - Imotski which is 22, 22 and 23 kilometers long and D42 Šjeanovac-Lovrinčević length cca 18 kilometers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are all in the high stage of preparation and project documentation so that the start of reconstruction of these roads is expected either at the end of this year or at the latest immediately from the beginning of next year. What you are now talking about, and it is a matter of traffic-connection solutions on the Zagreb-Split-Dubrovnik highway we have a new situation here to say, we are considering, we are considering it all together, and we will certainly analyse it if it turns out justified, and I believe that the justifications have a great deal, then we will start to pre-work, that is to say, in actions that previous construction of such a roadway, and these are the questions of preparation of project documentation, analysis of the situation, etc. So we know about the problem, we're familiar with it, and we analyze it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53645	Thank you. Dear Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53646	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased with the answer, and I hope the Ministers will speed up the construction of these roads in the next period, because it is a very bad situation, so I ask that the reconstruction of these roads be speeded up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53647	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53648	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Dear Ministers, during last year, the Croatian Parliament adopted a series of financial laws aimed at improving and improving the work and position of financial institutions, the financial market and creating a legislative and supervisory framework for the non-bank financial sector. Your Ministry of Finance was directly involved by representatives of business and scientific communities in the drafting of these legal regulations. In addition, it should be said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also adopted a strategy for the development of internal financial control in the public sector in order to make more efficient, efficient and economically efficient use of funds. This applies in particular to beneficiaries of budgetary resources in terms of improving their business and ultimately achieving the objectives and tasks for which they are established. It is also known that significant qualitative changes have taken place in the area of the Treasury. I know that these legal regulations and measures have been passed over the last year and that their effects can be fully evaluated at this age or later, but I'm sure some of them have already given some results. Also, although it was only recently completed in 2005, I believe that you have certain indicators of the use of budgets. In this direction, my question, Mr. Minister, was also envisaged, and it reads: To what extent has the adjustment of the State Treasury affected the implementation of the State budget for 2005 particularly in terms of rational use of budget funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53649	Thank you. Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53650	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, so the establishment of the State Treasury with that technical problem that arises, and that's already one process that lasts over 10 years, and it would be extremely unfair and incorrect to say that my predecessors have not been created by the State Treasury, but there is something that adorns this government unlike the previous governments. There is a political will in this government to finally establish the State Treasury and to finally make state finances public and transparent. If that were the case, I'll tell you that two years ago, so the moment we took power with the State Treasury account there were over 300 sub-accounts where the budget users held the money. It was not known once that in order to pay certain bills, you should be in debt for 300, 400 million in the short term, and when you collect the information on how much money was on those sub-accounts, then that amount was once twice the amount needed to borrow. Also, with this technical process of creating the State Treasury and with political will, we finally came to the stage in 2005 that we can practically manage daily with approximately the assembly of monthly and daily reports. First of all, it has finally come to the conclusion that the commitments of the budget users are in line with the priorities, but the priorities set by the budget user, so the user who spent the funds. The budget coverage is also extended for the first time to the budget of the budget users, and thus in the 2006 budget, thanks to these technical developments around the establishment of the State Treasury, we came into a position that the 2006 budget contains all revenue as its own revenue from budgetary users and Croatian citizens and for the first time in the 2006 budget can be seen precisely and transparently how their funds are spent. What is very important is the detailed monitoring and analysis of the ministry's expenditures for one basic reason so it doesn't happen at the end of the year that there are a lot of skeletons in the closet and that these skeletons start falling out next year and creating problems in budget implementation. And what may most importantly be mentioned is that over 90% of the payments were made directly from the Treasury in 2005 at the request of the budget users, which we succeeded in removing and shutting down those 300 accounts, the only thing that was made through the special accounts opened by the Post Office, and these are the accounts of individual budget users for cash payment, and at this point it is technically better to be part of the budget users because it is being resolved more quickly, and the result is that the 2005 budget was made with 99.79% as regards the spending party's plan in almost entirely identical form was made and as regards the revenue side, and this is only the result of the political will and requirements, above all, the Prime Minister, Dr. Sanader, who ordered all ministers to cancel special accounts and gave the deadline to the Ministry of Finance that practically by the end of 2006 or by the beginning of 2007, the State Treasury must finally function and I repeat the establishment of the State Treasury after the past 10 years is exclusively a matter of the political will of a government because if we were doing this technically, it could have been done and that is what adorns this government. The result of the establishment of such a treasure is that we can now say in the first month with 99% certainty that the 2005 deficit is within the planned frameworks, which means 4.2%. All these monitorings are also the result of good macroeconomic indicators, and for the first time since the end of 2002, economic growth in the third quarter of 2005 was 5.2%, although many told us at the 6th month that the state was in recession, that the government was indifference, economic growth would definitely be over 4% in 2005 and there was no speech of indifference.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53651	Thank you very much. Listen to the bitching. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53652	I thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53653	Honorable representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53654	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister, Mr Calmeta. These days, we will discuss the final proposal for a transport law in line maritime transport. The final proposal for a law provides for the establishment of a concession agency. Competition on the market is certainly good and should be commended and supported and I believe that it will ultimately improve the standard and way of life of the islanders. However, one question is raised. How this law will reflect on our biggest shipman, Jadrolini. And so I'm asking you, are you going to privatize the Jadrolini? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53655	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53656	The second reading of this bill I suppose will come soon for a parliamentary debate, and if this bill as such is to be discussed and adopted, then for sure the next 5 years, Jadrolini cannot be privatised. Because it says in article 69 that there is no privatisation of Jadrolinia until all the lines are concessioned, and the deadline is 5 years. Therefore, there is no privatisation of Jadrolinia for the next five years. After that, whether it will be privatized, when, in what way, it will not or will not, about this later. That's what we'll talk about then. Therefore, there is no talk of any privatisation of Jadrolinia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53657	Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53658	I thank the Minister, I am pleased with the answer, and I hope that all employees of Jadrolinius will be pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53659	Honorable representative Nikola Ivanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53660	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament, honourable members of the government. The question is for Mr. Prime Minister. In the last 3 years, all the municipalities and towns of Gorski Kotar, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, all the snow sports alliances, the university sports alliance, a series of businessmen, economists, academics accepted and supported the idea of the winter university in Gorski Kotar. A study was carried out entitled "The Basics of the 2011 Winter University Candidate Project" where 3 variants were given and over 400 pages were given over a thousand data explaining why it is objective to run for the winter university. To point out that the Gorski Kotar is certainly one of the most beautiful but also the most untapped and the worst populated parts of Croatia, this region in Europe, but also Europe. These winter universities would contribute to the economic restoration of the mountain cotter, to the halting of the depopulation. She would probably open up a few hundred jobs and leave a significant infrastructure. For this reason, and because of the even development of the entire Republic of Croatia, we in the Primorje-Gorski County stand at the point of view that it is necessary to support the project. And I'm asking you a question, given that there were some misunderstandings in the public opinion of the government, and the government hasn't actually discussed it. Will the government give prior consent to the winter university candidate in Gorski Kotar, either in 2011, or in 2013? 'Cause that's all he's waiting for until about May, June, to open up a procedure of regular running. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53661	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53662	Dear Mr. Representative, the government will support any initiative that contributes, as in this case, to the development of a county. I agree with you that everything I've heard and still unofficially from newspapers, from the media or through other channels that studies have been made. Well, I invite you, that's exactly what we're thinking. The government hasn't thought about it yet. So, all of this, if there were any speculation in public, they had nothing to do with the government because we haven't talked about it yet. But before he officially comes to the government, I suggest and invite you to come to the government with other representatives and with the leadership of the Primorje-Gorski County, with Minister Primorec, to present the whole project to us. And if it is, of course, financially sustainable in sports terms, it would mean a major promotion of Croatia, a major promotion of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and Gorski Kotar in general, to consider this. And make sure that I do everything that the government gives its support.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53663	Honorable representative Nikola Ivanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53664	Thank you very much. I think I'm as pleased as the leaders, I believe, all seven, eight mountain municipalities and cities. We're gonna do this procedure all the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53665	Thank you. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53666	Thank you very much, Your Honor, President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Croatian Prime Minister, Minister. I would like to refer the question to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Madam Minister, your ministry has a substantial budget of 6.6 billion kuna in 2006. Which is an increase of 8.65% compared to last year. My question is how much this year's budget of your ministry will reflect on the return of debt to Croatian defenders for non-coordination of pensions, disability for 2001 and 2002. And what does the ministry do for first-group people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53667	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53668	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representative. Thank you very much for asking, because here, through the answer to your question, I can actually announce some recent moves and ministries that I am headed by, of course, the Croatian Government and in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. The point is, and you're asking it as a question, it's about the so-called return of debt as far as the 2001 law. Namely, the legal obligation of the so-called 2001 Law translation is about disability and family pensions that are not harmonised and we are paying back this year. Or rather, we start returning it in this year for the period 2001, 2002 and 2003. In this year, we have secured 141 million kunas for the return of the debt, according to the 2001 Law, in 2 months 2001 and throughout 2002. However, in order to repay that debt from 2003, we had to project and repay the debt for 2003, so what was not paid to people. And in that projection, we predicted 187 million already for 2007. I am pleased to say that we are starting at the end of February, we have just coordinated all the jobs that were necessary in this regard both at the Ministry of Finance and at the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. So, at the end of February, the payment of that debt begins for the period 2001, and somewhere April, May 2002. I repeat, we have already provided an additional 187 million kuna in the budget for next year. So it's about extremely big money. However, of course this government is determined to return everything that is necessary and, of course, Croatian defenders and members of their families, this is about Croatian military disableds, they did not get, and they had to get it because it was a legal obligation. As for 100 percentage disabled groups I must also say you asked what we are doing, I'll just list because I don't have enough time we've done since the start of the mandate, so you finally solved the status of carers for the 100 percentage disabled group I, it's about 425 people who finally got solved and health and pension and have secured existence, mostly women of the 100 percentage disabled group I, we solved mostly their housing through the construction of houses, i.e. building apartments. Here I am announcing, probably next week or week after that Minister Matulović-Dropulić and I will go to Split and lay two more cornerstones for building two houses for 100 percentage disabled groups. In the last year we bought and assigned 148 cars for 100 percentage disabled groups, and in this year we also start distribution to 100 percentage disabled groups of the I group, it's a 141 car. These are all 100 percent disabled persons who were also required under the laws to get those cars for the mandate of the previous government, but did not get them. So that's what we're doing right now and I'm also saying that we're currently faced with the achievement of the suitor's claims exactly 100 percent of the I.A.'s disabled, who, of course, have been suing for failure to comply, or because of their non-compliance with their rights since the end of '99. until 2001. It's also about 33 million, Mr. President, who we're on... and the name of those claims had to be secured in this year and of course they would be paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53669	Thank you. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53670	Thank you for your response. I am extremely pleased, and I hope the entire Croatian public who has listened to this, even if a short part of the activities that are taking place in your ministry, because other than that the government has shown social sensitivity by increasing the budget of your ministry is obvious, and that the Croatian public expects you to make huge efforts, that those who need it most are provided with quality care and care. I thank you, I hope you get such laws from the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53671	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53672	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honor. I refer my question to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vesni Skare-Ozbolt. Several months ago, the Croatian public expressed its strong disfavor over the Milanovic case at the County Court in Gospić. To remind those who eventually forgot Judge Milanovic is the judge who has increased the civilised public due to the argument of the verdict in the case of the rape of an American basketball player... when this distinguished judge concluded that the violent push of a finger in someone's anus wasn't rape and that it was an even-handling shop. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course it wasn't the first excess of this judge, he was already in '97. the year in which it was also a rape case found that a mature woman knew where sensitive places were in men, so she could defend herself, and on no account did this distinguished gentleman bring a liberating verdict. That verdict was then annulled and the rapist ended up in prison after all. We also remember Milanovic's pearl when he sentenced a man to 13 years in prison for war crimes, and the verdict explained that the convict had been with his ancestors for 500 years and... Genocide of the Croats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, which deals specifically with disciplinary proceedings against judges, was published in the "National Journal" of 21.12.2005. When we will finally start implementing our own laws and stop hiding behind the phrases of false political correctness, not commenting on the inadmissible judgments or the incompetence of the judicial opinion expressed in the performance of the job. If Judge Milanovic is untouchable because of this, then he could at least be held responsible for the disorderly conduct of the judicial duties or cause disturbances in the work of the court or damage to the reputation of the court and the judicial... Minister, what about the oversight of the County Court in Gospić? [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] And especially, when, apart from the big announcements, the big reforms will begin to make concrete moves for example. To allow people like Judge Milanovic to once and for all shake hands on leaving the profession they humiliate, and should be the most honorable in the state? Furthermore, can such and similar judgments fall into negotiations when entering the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53673	My colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53674	Let me finish my sentence. Union, what is going on with Romania and Bulgaria these days? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53675	Thank you very much. You asked the Prime Minister the question, so the Prime Minister will answer the question. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53676	In preparation for the session, we saw that you asked me a question, so I would be happy to answer this question. I agree with you that there are some above all I think we agree and that we cannot question the trio of power, in general. This is the principle on which all democratic states rest, and it is not right for the executive power or the legislative authority to interfere with the judicial authority, but to comment, there is also a consensus with you on any discussions in recent months and on the grounds of this verdict which is not yet in power to say so, but we are waiting for the power of judgment. It's worth commenting on. I'll comment. I will say that what has been done, of course, is being re-walled as President of the Executive Authority, as Prime Minister, I do not want to have any effect on the work of the judicial bodies in the Republic of Croatia, but I agree with you that there are some rulings, that there are some events that we have to comment on. I find this event absolutely unacceptable and I cannot agree with it in any way or agree with it. I repeat, the verdict is not a power of power, we expect the power of judgment and the executive power will not continue to interfere in judicial power. I repeat, we have the right and I have granted myself this right, and I see that you are proposing that we comment on some things in Croatia. It's absolutely unacceptable to me, and I have to throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53677	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53678	I thank you for your answer. Prime Minister, I agree with you the division of power but disciplinary measures also do. And this case is not unique in our practice. I also remind you of the case of Judge Lozina in Split in the case of Laura.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53679	Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53680	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government! After a number of years, negotiations and even trials, the final adoption of the Retirement Fund Act created assumptions about the payment of pensioners' debt, regardless of whether there are any comments of positive, negative about it, we believe that this is a major step to correct a major injustice against pensioners. They got the opportunity in two ways to be compensated, so get what they deserve. Therefore, within eight years, it shall receive a percentage of the amount or within two years 50 % of the debt. Interestingly, a large number of pensioners are interested in meeting the obligation of these fifty-percentiary debts within two years. According to this law, by the 6th month, the Croatian Government should ensure that I do not bid with the figures because I do not know exactly and do not know whether you know exactly what your amounts are because by 31 January a report on how much money is really needed to pay off the first tranche of these debts, but somewhere it is calculated about the amounts that it should provide 3.5 billion kuna this year. And since these coins are not secured in the budget, I am interested in what the Government intends to do in order to meet the obligations that they could start in the sixth month in a high-quality manner and whether they have taken some of the actions to provide the financial resources that, according to some other estimates for the June month, are the most necessary over a billion and 200-300 million kuna, so please answer this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53681	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53682	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative! First of all, I thank you for the assessment that this is a major problem that this government finally solves, she had the courage, unlike the previous governments, to deal with the great trauma of Croatian society, which is a debt to the pensioners. This trauma has been following us since 1993, no matter who, which political option. It should be said that it is a debt to the pensioners who declared the Constitutional Court in 1998 that it should be returned. And in this sense, together with the Croatian Party of Retired, we worked with retired associations on the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament and under that law, as you said, we gave the opportunity for the pensioners to commit themselves to either the first version of 50% in two years, or for a variant of eight years all. According to the data we received somewhere just over 80% has been determined for the first variant, so for that 50% of the discount in two years. There's one thing I need to make you right. It's not a budget item, it's never been or the law predicts it's a budget item, it's not a pension fund that came out of the law. Under that law, the budgetary user is. Therefore, but now answer the question. Of course we're aware that by the end of June, we have to start paying off this part of what we agreed on at the end of the second quarter this year. To that end, the government will go to the privatisation of Telekom. So we don't have the resources of these in the budget. Neither the law nor the fund is part of the budget beneficiaries... among budget users and we will go to the privatisation of Telekom so that this debt can be paid to pensioners or compensation and the preparatory actions are already under way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53683	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53684	Thank you very much. I'm partially satisfied with the answer. However, questions are raised. I don't have the right to an additional question, but only to be evaluated, that if it's going to sell Telekom, it's not too late, but with a model, with everything else, so that we don't get the sales of Telekom in the time pressure that can't get what could actually be obtained if we start the preparations we should already start in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53685	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53686	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister! The issue goes to Mr. Agriculture Minister Mr. Cobankovic, and I would also like to ask the prime minister and the foreign minister if they are able to closely follow the issue. The issue concerns the borders of the Republic of Croatia in the Danube and our concern, in this case, does not worry that this open issue is resolved in accordance with the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. As the border of the Republic of Croatia is known with Serbia more than ten times crossing from one side of the Danube, with Croatia having exactly ten times more territory on the left bank of the Danube than Serbia has on the right bank. Under the Erdut Agreement, the temporary solution is that the border between the two states goes in the middle of a waterway. The Serbian side stands for such a solution. The Republic of Croatia, we will all agree, should only seek its own i.e. insist on respecting the position of the Badeinter Commission on the unchangeability of borders. Therefore, I was extremely surprised when I read in the decision of the Minister of Agriculture on the establishment of the national hunting grounds of Podunavlje-Podravlje from 21 October 2005 I read "The designated hunting ground extends within the borders", quoting "from the dragon's Danube forest and continues along the edge of the forest to the right bank of Danube and continues along the coast in the south, southeast to Erduta, etc. The question is, are you aware that the decision is against the constitution because the hunting line does not follow the border of the Republic of Croatia towards Serbia, that it is harmful because by this decision the ministry accepts Belgrade's position that the border is going in the middle of the Danube waterway and unacceptable because, taking into account small pockets of Serbian territory on the right bank of the Danube de facto, it is left to Serbia 11 thousand hectares of Croatian territory on the left bank of the Danube? And the question still, when will you withdraw the decision and it will be responsible for this act which is indisputable against the interest of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53687	Dear colleague, are you referring the question to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53688	The question was originally intended for Mr. Cobankovic because it was the ministry's decision But I can make a deal. [[/Intruder: First.]] I don't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53689	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53690	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I will answer this part of the question concerning the issue of the border between Croatia and Serbia. We are familiar with the idea that some in Serbia would like to change the borders of the former Socialist Republics of Croatia and Serbia, which have become new borders between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia according to the Badinter Commission's decision. It is our firm position on this, and I think it is because that is what we are working on, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not going to happen. So in any case, we will not agree to it at any cost, agree to that. Nor accept it. For us and this I will repeat the borders between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia on the borders of the former Socialist republics during Yugoslavia. And in that sense there is also a decision by the Badinter Commission which must be respected and we will do everything to respect it too. If, and now, if the minister has something to add, the Vice-President of the Parliament agrees, and you, if there is such a decision, and is not in line with this position, it will be in line with such a position and such a firm position that Croatia will not change at any cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53691	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53692	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I think it's also clear to you that the boundaries of the hunting grounds cannot prejudge any solution to the state border issue, but I will examine this case. I have to be honest, I'm not familiar with hunting limits right now. I'll question you and I'll give you a written report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53693	Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53694	It's absolutely hard not to agree with everything Mr. Prime Minister said because it just confirms what I said at the beginning of this question, but indeed in the ministry's decision, there was a clumper, stupidity, ignorance, I don't know what to call it, I don't use the terms of betrayal or anything like that that that could often have been heard here in the House, but I'm talking about probably an accidental mistake that needs to be corrected. But I warn in advance that our institutions have a lot of mistakes at national and local level. I believe that the Minister will come to know us through the public what happened, and I am pre-announced to the Prime Minister that I will also ask for an indication or a report from the State Commission to see what she was doing on this issue, and I am afraid that in these two years, the work has been a little stuck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53695	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53696	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Mr. President, on several occasions, you have declared yourself, and the Croatian public thus perceived that the most important projects of your government are the beginning of negotiations on the accession of the European Union and the start of the process of compensation for pensioners during 2005. At a working meeting with representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners, the president of the Croatian party of pensioners and representatives of pensioners' associations on 9 December 2005, we pointed out to you the mistake made by HZMO without calculating compensation for one part of family pensions and so on. limited pensions. We have concluded that this is a political issue, given that the law ordered that these categories should have been accounted for. You have promised to request additional information from HZMO on the dimensions of the problem and answer us within the appropriate time limit. There is no answer yet, and in the meantime there are problems with ensuring the quorum of the pension fund's board of directors, Ante Samodol, has not been appointed a new member. Mr. Damir Polancec is overworked by obligations. Martina Dalic, too. Since I am personally as other representatives of the Croatian Party of pensioners, I ask you: when will you present your final position to representatives of the Croatian Party of pensioners, pensioners' associations and citizens of Croatia related to family and restricted pensions and when will you ensure that the Management Board of the Pension Fund can function normally on several important issues that are necessary to address, and especially the problem of declaring the heirs of the compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53697	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53698	Mr. Representative, regardless of the fact that it's not usual for you to bring out something that we had at a work lunch, I'm going to say, "Yes, yes. It's not common." Because it's not common because now you've put me in a position to tell the Croatian public what you said back then. Because we have to tell everything that happened. You are then on mine, to my remark why since you were directly, personally, and retired associations and Party of pensioners directly involved in the drafting of the law discussed by the Croatian Parliament. Why didn't you put that item in the law very precisely? And you said to me, "Well, we didn't know that at the time." And now you are presenting something to the Croatian public drawn from the context of our conversation that all of what you said I will confirm. I said, I'm interested in that, and I want HZMO to do the exact calculation and tell me for what reasons in the pension societies and the Retired Party interprets the law in one way, and for which reasons is interpreted in the Bureau of the Peace House in another way. It was my, mine, my promise and I still insist on it, I still insist on it. I will not arbitration between you, between the two sides because it is not my place to arbitration on the law passed by the Croatian Parliament. I think that law should be spoken of by the Croatian Parliament. So since you're already taking something out of your work lunch that I said, bring out the whole context and what you said and what I said to you. I stand still, still firmly on the promise, standing firm on the promise that we will also discuss this issue in the government. But I would like to ask you why you did not put the family pension category in the law at the time of that law and what are you talking about? I refer that question to you, I direct everyone who has worked on this law. It can't be right, it can't be right, it can't be right, and it seems to me it's a line of less resistance. Yeah, there's a question. And we're getting questions from the field why aren't family pensions involved? Please, let's go to a credible interpretation of the law, so when the word is passed, I'll be the first one to look for it, insist that it be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53699	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53700	Mr. President, I have to deprive you of the fact that experts from pension societies and from the Croatian Party of pensioners at that meeting have argued that there are no dilemmas in the law for them and that these same pensioners should have been accounted for and that it is not at all a failure in law in view of Article 5 which obliges all family pensioners who are paid on the day of entry into force of that law to receive an account. There's no legal dilemma here. But I didn't intend to open the polemic here. I'm dissatisfied because you didn't answer me when you're going to give the final position and when we're going to create assumptions for the normal functioning of the board because time is on us, so please give me a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53701	Thank you. It's a written answer. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53702	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to refer my question to the President of the Croatian Government Dr. Evey Sanader. We are witnessing a recent Russian Ukrainian gas supply dispute that has raised major concerns from Croatian and European consumers. It is known that despite its own sources and gas production, the Republic of Croatia is gas imports that satisfy about 40% of consumption. It is also known that our gas sources are not enough for future supply of Croatian consumers, and we are forced to import. The previous government has been criminally leading Croatia's gasification and has failed to create and secure the start of pipeline construction from Karlovac to Pula and this government has opened works on the workshop the other day and the pipeline will be completed by the end of the year. But even then Croatia will lack 1/3 of the gas it will have to import. And my question is what does the Croatian government make to ensure alternative routes of gas transport, and what measures have been taken to save Russia from the Republic of Croatia imports gas from other countries to reduce its dependence on imports of Russian gas?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53703	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53704	Mr. Representative, this is a very important issue for, not only the current situation in Croatia, because we are all aware that not only because of the cold, but also because of the fact that some countries, especially in Eastern Europe, have the possibility of a mechanism that is often used by volunteering for political purposes, and this is the closure of gas as we have seen quarrels over Russian Ukrainian gas, even the latest when it comes to delivering Georgia, etc. We in Croatia focused on two projects. One is the gasification of Croatia. There is a national gasification programme that goes to 2011 from the time of the previous government in 2002, which includes the completion of the gasification of Slavonia, Baranja, the construction of the Master's Gas pipeline from Pula to Karlovac, the connection between Lucčko and Ivanja Reka so that we have two freeway connections when this is made. But also gasification like, of all Dalmatian counties to Split. It did not include the plan and gasification south of Split to Dubrovnik. Today, in the Government, we believe that this should also be included in the Committee's session about a month ago, I asked for full documentation and talks with experts to cut the gas plan to Split by at least one year. It's possible and I'm sure it can happen, and maybe even by 2009. Also, it is one important project, no less important for the future of the energy situation in Croatia than this one, and that is the second alternative supply direction. Talks are currently being held among experts and we will soon have at the Committee for Gasification three topics. One is an alternative direction across Hungary. The second is from Romania via Serbia to Croatia. And the third is the LNG terminal, so the gas terminal on the Adriatic. It was in the mid-1990s that the terminal was built on Krk. At the meeting with the mayors I presented the problem, because at this point the question is of course the question to which the profession should be answered whether there are any environmental or no environmental impact, etc. That terminal. According to the information we have, he probably doesn't have, but in any case at this time it is far away, it seems to us at least in the government, and I think that in the Croatian public and also in the Croatian Parliament, we will find support for such an attitude that it is much more important to ensure Croatia's energy independence, but whether there are some that we are absolutely committed to protecting the environment whether there are some maybe negative ones, although experts say I repeat another time I'm not an expert. We will listen to the voice of the profession when it comes to environmental protection. But we can't allow it, that's where I'm calling and I also told the Mayor of the Primorje-Gorski County who immediately said at the meeting is out of the question here. I said we didn't even decide where it was going to be. We will talk to all Adriatic counties about this, but we believe that Croatia must go to a gas terminal to be energy independent of whether Russia and Ukraine will fight tomorrow or not to shut down the gas. Because it's not just about Croatia here. Here's the question if we're going to that Central European terminal. We would get gas for our own, for our own purposes, but we could also charge for a part of the gas that will go through Croatia to Central Europe. Because the terminal must be of interest to countries such as Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Austria, etc. Slovenia. So, the countries of Central Europe, and in this sense I appeal to everyone that we are going to have this debate, I repeat another time with the mayors. I'm calling all the interested people who want to say something to get back to us. But the decision definitely stands. We must build the gas terminal to ensure our energy independence and not be susceptible, because we have all seen the reactions of our population, but also the economics of gas shortages. These days, the best thing to do is testify. Petrochemy was in the remont for a month. Of course it's that annual remont, but it's winter so we can save gas. Now the question is again whether or not to close. It is not just about Petrochemy, of course, agriculture, because it is about the production of fertilisers, and in that sense, these are all important things that depend on whether we will gasify Croatia and whether we will build a terminal for ingested gas. Our answer is to both questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53705	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53706	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I asked this question because it has been mentioned in the media that this government does not do much in the plenication, and in the Parliament it has been said that this government does not do enough in the plenication, and that is why I have put it here so that we can say how much the government does for the plenication and how much it means for the state of Croatia and how much it will mean for tourism when Dalmatia gets gas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53707	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53708	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored members of the Government. A question for the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. The process of bringing Croatia closer to Europe almost daily is measuring and achieving the level of development, both in the economy and in the social categories. The last two years, according to the latest research, are the most "progressed" in bribery and corruption. In doing so, the most imagination and money spent on trading council mandates at local level seems to be the most imaginative. In Croatia, this is actually a global problem because we forget that, apart from trade, changes in government by the will of citizens are done also through pressure, blackmail and threats, especially for councilmen who work in public services. Mr. Prime Minister, do you have any knowledge of these methods of change of government and do you know at all, since this is a global problem in Croatia in how many cities and municipalities have changed after the constitution?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53709	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53710	Mr. Representative, if anyone, and then this is my party, the Croatian Democratic Community, has been subject, unfortunately, to the past, but it has been a process of the necessary consolidation of the party's departure of councilors or MPs. Even in this assembly of parliament, we excluded three MPs from the party, we were aware that we were losing three votes in the Parliament. I wish other parties would behave like this. Principleally, when it comes to this, even at the cost of losing three votes, we have done so because the principle of principle and the programme of our policy for which we have received the confirmation of Croatian voters is more important than the 3 votes in the Parliament. I call on everyone to be as principled as the Croatian Democratic Community. It was in this term, it was in the last term. At that time, you watched the sweetness of this side of the tree, but we insisted on it because we knew it would be worth it, that principle and regularity and correctness would always pay off. I therefore resolutely reject that the Croatian Democratic Community will participate in such actions and activities as you mentioned. Do I know where and how much in Croatia? I know as well as you do in some places. But no one is, for example. mentioned today, Bakar, no one mentioned anyone else. Yesterday I watched television, Open, so I saw someone else, Arlovic mentioned a municipality where two parallel councils, Drenovci, function. Therefore, the public knows about it. Rest assured, when it comes to us, the Croatian Democratic Community, I have set an example for you here, give me another party that follows its policy in principle no matter how many votes it has and how many hands it will raise. As for how to handle it. We can't, unfortunately, solve it because we are, because democracy carries it with us. And in other countries, councilors, or MPs, change parties, unfortunately. And no one can take that mandate away from them. There have been different thoughts here whether they can be taken away from their mandate, whether the mandate belongs to the party or whether it belongs to that representative. We have bowed to that democratic European practice, which says that the mandate is intolerable and that it belongs to a representative, or belongs to a councilman. ... The constitution says. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, we bowed to that practice in the Constitution. Therefore, we stand on it, and we call on voters, and that is the only thing we can do, we call on voters to, in other elections, such representatives, or such councilors, not to choose them anymore, to punish them. Can we go to what we heard yesterday, to touch that subject too, because I think it must be very current, to sign an interparty agreement on the ground, or among the parties, that it will not be accepted as a defection. I'm open to conversations. I invite the presidents of the parties to a conversation to see if we can reach such an agreement. We can't do more than that because, I repeat once again, the final will is on every MP, the final will is on every councilman. Unfortunately, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53711	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53712	Thank you very much for your answer. That looks like that historic thesis that Tito knew about Goli Island wouldn't have happened. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, only in Virovitica-Podrava County through the pressure and blackmail method has there been a change in... municipality in 20% of cities and municipalities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, he always came to the HDZ instead of the opposition. My question was whether you knew about these phenomena, whether you wanted to prevent them and whether you wanted to introduce me to how much power was destroyed throughout Croatia in a similar way after the constitution in cities and municipalities. Since you haven't answered that question, I'm asking you a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53713	Thank you. It's a written answer. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53714	Thank you. I'm giving my question to the Prime Minister. It's the cold that reduced the amount of gas. The conflict of Russia, Ukraine too. The result in Croatia, does not work Petrochemy after the remont, HEP spends a lot of oil to maintain electricity supply, citizens listen to meteorologists and expect news of warming as soon as possible. And of course, in January the opening of Pula gas pipeline – Karlovac. My colleague, by asking questions about alternative gas routes, said the irresponsible former government, the criminal gas policy is the reason you opened the pipeline only in January 2006. The SDP Club believes that these works could be started in 2004. The question is, do you think this two-year delay is the fault of the former government?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53715	Thank you. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53716	For, Mr. Representative, I'll be straight to the direct question. for two years since we took responsibility for Croatia, of course you are not guilty. And as you know, the culprit after 2000, after December and November 2003, and you left, you were removed from the capitals in Plinar. And I asked why it wasn't done and when we took over, because I think we lost unnecessary time because of our citizens, and that's where you'll agree with me. But the same question arises, why, as I so understand the question of the distinguished Zubovic, why did you not change the incompetent people who were and in your time the gas pipeline of Karlovac-Pula could be started and initiated construction. She wasn't. With the same arguments I assume you and Racan have listened to as I have listened, we have problems with local self-government, we have problems with property relations etc. I've been listening to this for a year and a half and asked people what it was about, and we've replaced Plinar's leadership, now it's working, we've opened up the works. I asked for construction work to be completed within six months, so that means putting up a pipe when there will be a test production, or transport. It will certainly take another month, but in any case within six months construction works must be completed. So at the latest in the fall you'd have to start, you'd have to work on Pula Gas... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53717	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53718	The social importance of the issue, you lose two years at the exchange you'll allow, is too much. ... Mr. Prime Minister, allow me to respond, and I'd like to have time again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So two years is not the time when you can be late for changing administrations, and so I ask the written answer that the public really knows who's responsible for two years, not to hear from their colleagues about criminal politics. Because if we're talking about criminal politics, in the term of the former government, we had a strategy that finally broke the coal lobby. We passed a transport law and the responsibility of a gas transporter that was very clear and made very important, to get Plinacro out of Ina so that the Croatian state could control a transporter named Plinacro and the plans of Ina said it had to come with the gas from the platforms to Pula and the plans of Plinar that gas pipelines from Pula to Karlovac must be made in 2004. These are the documents that are left. It remains a question of irresponsible people who are now finally, not talking about them, but talking about the former government's criminal policy, and it's only been said to go for two years, because this cold has forced us to be energetic with them. And I thank you for the first time I've heard that the former government is not guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53719	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53720	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government. I refer my question to Mr. Home Secretary, Mr. Kirin. There were eight raids last night. So the most serious crime, the execution of the most severe crime doesn't hurt, but it's on the rise. And rather than you, Mr. Kirina, concentrate all your strengths to finally discover this one always and the same perpetrator of the famous unknown perpetrator, you allow the police to spend their precious powers and see where, to call for informative talks by the organisers and petitioners in the city of Pag, dissatisfied, where people signed this petition on this organization, dissatisfied with the proposal of the spatial plan of the city of Pag. So what kind of message do you send to citizens in the protection of fundamental human and civil rights instead of just being a bard of such protection? And my particular question: How long will you allow those who point to irregularities to be persecuted in this country, and not those who commit illegalities and irregularities?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53721	Minister Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53722	Dear MPs, of course, that I can't answer this question, because if you had referred me to that question before, I would have prepared an official answer, too, I would have examined everything about this invitation to an information conversation. But one thing as the minister of justice of the former, you must give me support, which is that the police are not guilty if they catch the offender and he is constantly released and caught in certain criminal acts by people who have 80 crimes both out of criminal and out of criminal responsibility. It is a question of Croatian laws that we must discuss and strengthen measures here in the Croatian Parliament. What you have to give me for the right to be just like my predecessor inherited certain problems that are being passed on today, which are financial problems. In 2003, we transferred 208 million kunas not charged, meaning debt to the Ministry of Interior and little to the various suppliers, suppliers, etc. And what's even worse, we've also taken over the overtime we have to pay today. For this year, we've foreseen 50 million kuna in the state budget, and we're afraid that this figure will go far beyond... What am I saying that for? [[You don't understand.]] In fact, it's been misrepresented in public all along that we have extra cops, and then the same ones who ran the policy of reducing the number of police officers in the Ministry of the Interior are asking where are these cops on the road. Believe me, this isn't the problem since yesterday. We are not aware that by entering the European Union, by settling market capital, by resolving things that we also take on certain negatives, which is a rise in crime especially in urban areas. In accordance with this, we have prepared a new Law on Police, which will be very clear and decadent in the fight against organised crime and all other crimes. If this government hadn't just stood on the words, the last few months before the last Parliament, a law on minimum measures was passed... institutions. [[You don't understand.]] The law on prevention is now being drafted in the procedure of the Government, the Law on the Prevention of Disruption, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Sports Competitions. The law on police is being prepared and a series of acts are being prepared to regulate police work. What I would ask you all together to help us solve these cases because we are a huge system and we believe that there are those in that system who may be inadequately doing their job, means they are getting paid and they didn't deserve it and trust me as Minister of the Interior, and I am responsible for saying that I will be able to deal with them in such a responsible way as to replace them from these jobs, because there has always been a desire for those officers who do their job on the road and always the easiest to deal with those who have the least rights. From today and the new structure and organisation of the Ministry of the Interior, we will put our ambition with the formation of the border police towards the obligations of the European Union and on the formation of the Police Crime Police in all local areas so that we can control the work of the police in quality and through internal surveillance, and just in time, prevent the negativity, which is certainly the subject of the Ministry of the Interior are not petitions of citizens unless the law has been broken or if a request of the State's Attorney's Office has been delivered. It's the hardest, and these are organised groups of which have the most damage to the state budget. We have to do this because we're getting paid from that state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53723	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53724	It's true, Mr. Minister, that you have a duty to do that because that's what you're getting paid for. You were obliged to answer my question here, so you didn't do it. I allow that you may not be familiar with this situation, but you should be. How in the city of Pag and it's unacceptable that you don't know about it because I don't know and I don't believe the police would act on their own initiative. To call for the information talks of those who organized the petition. So, where they exercise fundamental human and civil rights. So, what do we have going on? Mr. Kirinu, in the government where you've been sitting since the beginning of the Central State Administration Office, it's used to turn election defeats of HDZ not into victories. But it's not... /The speaker's off, and then it's on./, I warn you that the matter has escalated and that clearly it's no longer being retained by the government just through the Central State Office. But it also works through a repressive apparatus so that, you can see here, even those who are not in power are even opposed, but are active, see, citizens are solidarity with them. It's something... /The speaker turned off, then turned on./ It's something that hasn't happened in the '90s when civil and human rights were at a lower level. And it's just inadmissible. I'm asking for a written answer, to examine what this is all about, and that we can report it to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53725	Dear Representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53726	... The Ivanek Tool Machine Factory Itas, a company that had been operating for war and war years and employed over 250 workers in 2001 in strange ways, came into the majority ownership of local political players with the unquestionable support of the then state-level powermakers. [[Specially enabled.]] The objective of such privatisation was to free the company from production, to get workers to the Employment Service, and to expensively resell real estate, which was unfortunately partly successful. On obvious financial malfeasances, sale of machinery and presales of parts of real estate, workers submitted applications but nothing was done. Obviously, the rule of law was taking quite a nap at the time. Many machinations led the company to a total of 30 million kunas of debt, of which about 16 million kunas to workers and about 4 and a half million kunas to the state, resulting in company bankruptcy in the autumn of last year, and the public and the Government of the Republic of Croatia met after the desperate attempt to give them a chance to work, the hunger strike began after they were cut off from electricity. The current Government of the Republic of Croatia then reacted without delay and "Itasu" was involved in electricity in just a few hours. Itas is in bankruptcy, and some that are included in it as well as representatives of the current county government continue to want the company shut down to make the machinations forget. Workers and trade unions claim that production can continue, and this proves the interest of foreign customers for "Itas" products from Germany, Italy, Venezuela as well as from the Republic of Croatia. You, Mr. Minister, have received representatives of workers and unions on my initiative for which I thank and know everything. I'm asking a question. Is it possible, in your opinion, to turn the demand for workers and states into ownership shares in bankruptcy, in the light of the current Croatian government's policy to develop and encourage production, to give workers an opportunity to work and export, and for which there is no doubt an interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53727	Thank you. Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53728	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, I thank you for this question because, and I thank you personally for intervened very quickly and for actually being with the workers at the ministry because it's a pretty sad story. And I think that the example that I hope is that there aren't many in Croatia, where private owners, therefore, have actually done everything to destroy production and to cash property and actually leave 250 families out of work. It is about a company, a company, a high-tech factory, which is a manufacturing plant, which manufactures machines and these machines for the European market, Germany and Italy. So, a very high product, high-quality with high-tech technology. And I think it's really for congratulating the workers who, here, and that by their action, by strike of hunger actually alerted them to the state of the firm. The Croatian government intervened very quickly and, at the recommendation of the government, HEP and re-run the power. But what's for congratulating the workers is that they managed to maintain their relationship with the customers. And that this company today and in bankruptcy products for customers from Germany and Italy. So, the workers really stood there, I would say, in the right way and deserve the full commendation, but also the support I promised them. Both the Croatian Government and the Ministry of which I am headed. But first of all, since the company is in bankruptcy, it has to be done according to the bankruptcy law, it's up to the creditors to determine the bankruptcy manager's plan. A business plan I believe may be the one to get out of the current state of the company. Which will leave a job if for all 250, 200 or 150 workers, but surely there are jobs, that the company has a market. And I can say, therefore, that depending on this bankruptcy plan that will be established by the believers, and the greatest believers are actually workers. The state is in this case a smaller believer, that the government and this ministry will do everything they can to help save the company. To preserve these jobs and to preserve, above all, a highly quality and high quality, a technological quality product and how it can work further. Therefore, support is there, it is up to the bankruptcy manager, the bankruptcy council and the creditors to establish a model, a way and there to have full support and cooperation of experts in the ministry who will jointly help to make such a plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53729	Dear Representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53730	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answer as well as for any future support and for itas and other companies in a similar situation. Personally, I believe that this already obvious paradigm of Croatian privatisation and various murky hunters need to be prevented and stopped as soon as possible to develop production and to enable people to work and make their existence possible for themselves and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53731	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the current morning is over. Resume at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53732	We move on to - - Reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission This is the 1st item of the agenda, please, let's move on. Because of these and these waste of time, we've wasted time asking parliamentary questions. I ask you to continue the session of the Parliament and to be just this one small deviation from the sessions so far, to extend that range of exceptions and to move on. As first in line was Agent Ivan Kolar and agreed with this proposal there is no reason, I do not see Mr Vidovic here, but I see the other two other MPs who agree, so we move on. We are moving to the 1st item of the agenda of the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report on the suspension of the term of office of representative Zvonimir Sabati and the termination of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Josip Vresk. It's been misplaced here twice, so it will correct the chairman of the Mandate Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53733	... At the 21st session held on 24 January 2006, it discussed the written statement by Dr. Zvonimir Sabati of 24 December 2005 on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duty pursuant to Article 14(3). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] The commission found that the stay of the representative's mandate was elected on the list of the Croatian Peasant Party in III. The constituency was initiated on 24 June 2005 in accordance with Article 14(1) and (2) of the Law and that his deputy, Mr. Josip Vresk, acted instead of Mr. Sabati. The Commission has established that certain conditions are met by law and in accordance with Article 14(3). The law on the election of representatives to the Croatian Parliament rests the term of office of Dr Zvonimir Sabati on the eighth day since the written statement to the President of the Croatian Parliament of 24 December 2005 on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of representative and to suspend the deputy representative's term of office, which determines that on 1 January 2006, the term of office of representative of Dr Zvonimir Sabati and that the deputy representative, Mr Josip Vresk, ceased to act on 1 January 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53734	Thank you very much. I think it would be a good idea to read two more proposals, and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53735	So, the next report on the suspension of MP Marijan Mlinaric's term of office and the termination of deputy deputy representative Vladimir Pleška's term of office. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 21st session held on 24 January 2006 discussed the written statement by Representative Marijan Mlinarić of 23 January 2006 on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duty in accordance with Article 14(3). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that the stay of Mr Marijan Mlinaric's parliamentary mandate was elected on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union in III. The constituency began on 22 July 2005 in accordance with Article 14(1) and (2) of the Law and that his deputy, Mr. Vladimir Pleski, acted instead of Mr. Mlinarić. The Commission has established that certain conditions have been met by law and will in accordance with Article 14(3). The law on the election of representatives to the Croatian Parliament rests the term of office of representative Marijan Mlinarić on the eighth day of the written statement to the President of the Croatian Parliament since 23 January 2006 on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of representative and the termination of the deputy representative's term of office, which states on 31 January 2006 that the term of office of representative Marijan Mlinarić has ceased to rest and that Deputy Representative Vladimir Pleško ceases to act on 31 January 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53736	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of MP Zvonimir Sabati and the termination of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Josip Vresk. Who is for the decision and the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 92 votes, the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission is accepted. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Marijan Mlinarić and the termination of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Vladimir Pleška. Who's up for a decision? Thank you very much. Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 92 votes, a proposal was adopted by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53739	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53740	Thank you very much. In this way, all these conditions are met to begin Mr Sabati's parliamentary mandate. I congratulate him and wish him good and fruitful work in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53741	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask you that those who are not, take their seats and go to the vote, and let's determine the quorum first. Please turn on the keys. I'm asking for a result. 88 has a representative and a representative for now. So we have a voting quorum. First, the report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to hold MP Zlatko Tomcic's term of office. I'm asking the President of the Committee to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53742	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the meeting held on 8 February 2006 a written request for the rest of the parliamentary term, which is in accordance with Article 14(1). Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament was submitted by Zlatko Tomčić, representative of the Croatian Parliament, acting on 6 February 2006. The commission found that Mr Zlatko Tomcic was elected representative as a candidate for the Croatian Peasant Party in the 2nd Election Unit and that the conditions for the start of the term of office of MP Zlatko Tomcic were met. In line with the words, the Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly a decision on the rest of the parliamentary term. It is found that on February 10th 2006, the standstill of MP Zlatko Tomcic was launched.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53743	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision from the Commission. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and one abstention, a decision taken. Please welcome the president in respect of the term of office of office, representative Ana Lovrin's representative's seat and the start of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Rada Ivasa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53745	The mandate-immunity of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 22nd session held on 10 February 2006 the written request of representative Ana Lovrin from 10 February 2006 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that it was given... Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand./... that most of the Croatian Parliament has shown confidence in the behaviour of the minister of justice and that, in accordance with Article 9. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament puts the parliamentary mandate in a standstill. On 25 June 2006, the Commission found that Mrs Ana Lovrin had started acting as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union in the 9th Election Unit and that the Croatian Democratic Community had decided, in accordance with Article 12(1) of the Law, that Mr Rade Ivas as deputy representative in that constituency, to act as a representative. The Commission has established that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Ana Lovrin as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of the deputy representative, Rada Ivas. In accordance with the words, the mandate-immunity committee, after the debate was held, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the start of the parliamentary term of office and the start of acting as deputy MPs. On 10 February 2006, it shall begin the rest of Parliament's representative Ana Lovrin's term of office and agent's duties pursuant to Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 10 February 2006 began to act as deputy representative of Rada Ivas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53746	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. The oath has already been passed by Rade Ivas, so that she does not need to be relegated. Here you go, Mr. Representative, take your place, old place yes. And be careful with the keys. Be careful. ... Now your friend, Mr. Chehok, is going to be doing the same thing here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Gentlemen, please engage to determine the quorum. Please quorum. 88 MPs and MPs, so we have a quorum. First, please, as regards the final proposal of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, we will not vote today or debate amendments or vote. The government has asked for the necessary amendments to be brought into line with the Ministry of Resort and certain additional consultations with the Croatian Shipowners' Association "Mare Nostrum" and the Croatian Maritime Union, and we will move the vote for the next session when these consents and consultations are reached, and then we will see whether and how to read. We are now going to the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report on the suspension of the term of office of representative Vesna Skara-Ozbolt and the termination of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Frana Piplojic. The chairman of the committee, Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53748	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 23rd session held on 15 February 2006 the written request of MP Vesna Škare-Ozbolt of 13 February 2006 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had relieved her of the duties of the Minister of Justice by way of a decision of 9 February 2006, thereby suspending the reasons for her representative's term of office because of the incompatibility of the minister's duties with a representative's duty. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term of Mrs Vesni Skare-Ozbolt, elected on the list of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Democratic Centre in the V. constituency, began on 23 December 2003 and that her deputy Frano Piploić started acting in office in the Croatian Parliament on 15 September 2004. As Mrs Vesna Skare-Ozbolt is in accordance with Article 13(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, applied in writing to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so that the rest of the parliamentary term of the representative of Vesna Škara-Ozbolt ceased on the eighth day of the application and the same day ended the parliamentary duty of her deputy, Frana Piplojic. In accordance with the words, the mandate-immunity committee, after the debate was held, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the suspension of the MP's term of office and the termination of the deputy representative's term of office. On 21 February 2006, the term of office of representative Vesna Skara-Ozbolt, deputy representative Mr Frano Piploić, stopped acting on 21 February 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53749	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. My colleague Piploić is very lucky. Let's hope for a near encounter at another time. Here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53750	Then the report on the launch of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Miroslav Cacia. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal at the 24th session held on 17 February 2006... in the Croatian Parliament submitted by the Croatian Peasant Party by an act of 17 February 2006 to the President of the Croatian Parliament. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] As Mr Zdravko Tomcic began his term of office on 10 February 2006, pursuant to Article 12(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Peasant Party proposed that the parliamentary mandate begin to act as Miroslav Cacci, deputy MPs run in the 2nd election unit as candidate on the Croatian Peasant Party list instead of Mr. Zlatko Tomcic. The commission found that the basis of the notice by the Croatian Peasant Party on the person who, instead of the representative Zlatko Tomcic, would act as a representative, met with the law lays down the conditions for the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Miroslav Cacia. Accordingly, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the start of acting as deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament. Representativeial office, instead of representative Zlatko Tomcic, who began the stay of the parliamentary term on 10 February 2006 in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 17 February 2006 began to act as Deputy Representative of Miroslav Cacia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53751	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes for and one against, the proposed decision was made in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. As regards the representative of Vesna Skara-Ozbolt, there is no need to swear an oath because she had already given it once before, and with regard to the representative of Mr Miroslav Cacia, there will therefore be an oath at the next session since only a short time ago and has been notified and decided on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53752	We're moving to agenda two. 2. Proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2006 – Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union – 2006 The material was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of a harmonisation plan. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. Agent Cain reporting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53753	Mr. President, for the sake of time flexibility and everything else, I suggest that the second and third points of the agenda be joined into one. And I think he would. And I think she'll accept that. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Why not?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53754	Thank you very much. I think the points are divided and that's how we're going to do it, and no one's bothered to discuss the points that are on the agenda. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Yeah. Foreign Minister and European Integrations Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53755	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Vice-President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the event that marked the relationship of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in 2005 is certainly the opening of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union on 3 October 2005. In this way, Croatia has drawn closer to achieving its goal in relations with the European Union. The negotiating framework for the Republic of Croatia, adopted by the European Council on 16 March 2005, confirms that the common objective of the negotiations is full membership in the European Union. In September 2005, preparations began for the start of the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2006 MPPU for the fourth time in a row. After the adoption by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a session held on 3 January this year, the National Programme was sent to the Croatian Parliament to provide you with full information on all activities related to the accession process to the European Union. As with previous years, we are proposing the adoption of Appendix A of the National Programme, which contains a list of all the laws that will continue to be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union in 2006. In the coordination of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations and in cooperation with all the competent authorities of the State Administration of the MPPU in 2006, as well as with previous years, it has been established on the basis of Article 69. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. What I would like to stress is that this year, the National Programme was drawn up among other things and based on a decision by the Council on the principles, priorities and conditions of the accession partnership to Croatia and on the progress report of the Republic of Croatia in the EU accession process for 2005. The accession partnership sets out the measures to be taken in the short and medium term with regard to political criteria covering democracy and the rule of law, human rights and protection of minorities, as well as regional issues and international obligations. Then on the economic criteria and the ability to assume the obligations arising from membership, i.e. the acquisition and implementation of the European acquis. The priorities of the Accession Partnership will also be the basis for programming financial assistance from the European Union's accession funds. Progress in the implementation of priorities will be monitored regularly by the European Commission through further progress reports and through structures based on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Although the 2006 MPP provides for one-year measures primarily related to the harmonisation of legislation and the implementation plan of the SAA, the competent authorities have also envisaged measures in line with the planned budgetary projections in line with the accession partnership for the period until 2008. On this occasion, I would like to point out that, after the formal opening of the negotiations in October 2005, the process of an analytical review and an assessment of the compliance of the national legislation of the candidate country with the acquis of the European Union, etc. screening. Following the completion of bilateral screenings, the European Commission will draw up a screening report for each chapter. I would also point out that this legislative harmonisation plan will necessarily monitor the dynamics and results of screening as well as meet all observed needs for further inclusion of legal measures if they allow. By listening to the dynamics of screening and following the process of negotiations, the National Programme as a living document will reflect any additional efforts that the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will make to achieve the strategic objective of full membership in the European Union. I would also point out that, in addition to the legal-technical experience of screening and extremely educational for the state administration, this interdisciplinary approach points to the interdisciplinary connection and impact of the negotiating chapter, and thus to the need for a prominent link between the rules, not only in their regulatory content but also in effective implementation. The importance of looking at the links and the interaction between all negotiating chapters as well as the connection with the SAA implementation process and the European Union's recommendation through the accession partnership is also recognised by the adoption of the relevant documents of our legislative body. On this occasion, I would like to highlight the Croatian Parliament's resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union adopted on 14 October 2005, which, while respecting the current dynamics and achievements in the alignment of the legislative system of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis and standards of the European Union, strengthens cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to implement the legislative harmonisation process in quality and in accordance with the deadlines set. The basic structure of the MPPU in 2006 is not based on the criteria for membership in the European Union and all of the planned activities not only of the legislative nature represent a further continuation of the activities carried out over the past year. The amendment compared to MPPU in 2005 represents a change in the number of chapters addressing the fulfilment of the membership criteria from 29 to 33 in line with the amended structure established by the negotiating framework for the Republic of Croatia. The chapter describing legislative harmonisation activities describes the legal and institutional framework of certain chapters of the acquis of the European Union, as well as the priorities of harmonisation of legislation for 2006 as well as budgetary resources, budgetary allocations for their effective implementation. This Chapter of the National Programme is also directly related to the Annexes A and B. In accordance with the 59 laws and 158 sublaws and 107 measures contained in the MPP 2006 it is clear that the harmonisation of legislation will continue intensively in 2006 in particular in the context of negotiations on entry into the European Union. It is important to stress that a number of measures are foreseen for 2006 as a result of the so far maintained analytical review of the harmonisation of legislation for certain negotiating chapters. This review is not exhausted, I would say, by following the rhythm, content, dynamics and screening results, we will certainly submit the legislative harmonisation plan to the addition of new measures where there will be opportunities. As every year, the National Programme has been sent to all the competent authorities of the state administration for several rounds of clarity in order to implement the legislative harmonisation process with the acquis as quickly and more successfully as possible this year in order to significantly increase the number of legislative measures. And I believe that this significant increase in legislative measures reflects the level of ambition needed to carry out all activities within the process of negotiations for the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. The IMPU 2006 also provides for the allocations from budgetary resources, which in short say for the period 2006 to 2008, amount to 6 billion 697 million 176 thousand 717 kuna, and should be allocated, it should be noted that around 1/3 of that amount is allocated to the area of science and research of around 2.7 billion kuna. Complementarity with our own budgets has also been shown by the planned funds of foreign aid. The Appendix b also provides a systematic review of the current and planned technical assistance, projects and investment programmes in the Republic of Croatia supporting the implementation of the National Programme for Association with the European Union. Foreign aid funds include assistance programmes in cooperation with the European Union, other multilateral aid sources, bilateral assistance received by the Republic of Croatia, and loans from international financial institutions. In conclusion, by presenting in the short term the new National Programme for the current year, I am assessing how it reflects the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to implement concrete measures to achieve short- and medium-term priorities in the process of approaching the European Union, and it is a very important step towards achieving the strategic objective of Croatian foreign policy as well as relevant resolutions, which is full membership in the European Union. In order to achieve this goal, it is important to continue to make every effort to meet the priorities of the accession partnership, political, economic criteria, obligations arising from membership, i.e. Taking over and implementing the acquis. As indicated in the report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the EU's 2005 accession process, full co-operation with the Hague court is expected to continue, and further efforts should be aimed at maintaining macro-economic stability which is one of the conditions for successful negotiations. A significant effort should be made to further bring legislation into line with the acquis, and our strong development of institutions that will be in charge of its application and implementation. It is equally important to establish an effective market economy that is able to cope with competition and market forces within the Union. I would also single out a few European Commission messages here at the time of the negotiations. In short. Croatia must fulfil its obligations arising from the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Some of these obligations could be defined as criteria for opening or closing negotiations in certain chapters. Croatia needs to ensure an effective system of coordination of negotiations. It is necessary to continuously strengthen the communication and integration of the negotiating structure with the authorities of the state administration. It is of paramount importance for Croatia at this time to work to strengthen administrative and judicial capacity for effective implementation of the acquis. During the negotiations, the EU will seek and monitor the results achieved. To fully achieve this goal, Croatia will have to ensure the efficiency of the judiciary and the quality reform of the state administration. The European Commission also proposes to develop clear action plans for the takeover and implementation of the acquis with precise time limits. In use before access funds, Croatia must achieve maximum efficiency as this will demonstrate its absorption capacity for the subsequent use of the European Union funds intended for Member States. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for your attention and I propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt the proposed plan for the harmonisation of Croatian legislation set out in Appendix A to the National Programme for 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53756	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. The Constitutional Committee, I'm sorry. The Constitution Committee. On behalf of the board, the chairman of the board, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53757	Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 46th session held on 24 January discussed the proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2006, Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union in 2006. The Committee discussed the proposed plan on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee supported the proposal for a plan, but pointed out that the plan was necessary to bring it in line with the negotiations. The Committee also indicated the need for nomotechnical planning prior to its publication. In the debate, the Committee also proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the current course of negotiations, in accordance with the previous conclusions and acts of the Croatian Parliament. After the debate, the Committee proposed, by a majority of votes, 6 for and two abstentions, to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2006 and to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53758	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anna Lovrin, chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53759	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 36th session held on 24 January 2006, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the legal gains of the European Union for 2006 and the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union in 2006, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 3 January 2006. The Committee discussed the proposal on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer's representative also pointed out that the proposed plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union sets out the priorities and dynamics of the legislative activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2006. It has been stressed that it is a framework plan which will experience changes in line with the activities to join the European Union. In the debate, the Committee supported the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2006. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union for 2006 add-on to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union in 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53760	Thank you. Vice-President of the Committee on Information and Information, not European Integration, forgive me. Vice-President of the Board, Mr. Vladimir Kurecic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53761	Mr. Vice President, Ms. Minister and Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the 32nd session held on 24 January 2006, the Croatian Parliament's Committee on European Integration discussed a proposal for a plan to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2006 add-on to the National Programme for Accession to the European Union submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Act of 3 January 2006. Complementarity with our own budgets has also been shown by the planned funds of foreign aid. The Appendix b also provides a systematic review of the current and planned technical assistance, projects and investment programmes in the Republic of Croatia supporting the implementation of the National Programme for Association with the European Union. Foreign aid funds include assistance programmes in cooperation with the European Union, other multilateral aid sources, bilateral assistance received by the Republic of Croatia, and loans from international financial institutions. In conclusion, by presenting in the short term the new National Programme for the current year, I am assessing how it reflects the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to implement concrete measures to achieve short- and medium-term priorities in the process of approaching the European Union, and it is a very important step towards achieving the strategic objective of Croatian foreign policy as well as relevant resolutions, which is full membership in the European Union. In order to achieve this goal, it is important to continue to make every effort to meet the priorities of the accession partnership, political, economic criteria, obligations arising from membership, i.e. Taking over and implementing the acquis. As indicated in the report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the EU's 2005 accession process, full co-operation with the Hague court is expected to continue, and further efforts should be aimed at maintaining macro-economic stability which is one of the conditions for successful negotiations. A significant effort should be made to further bring legislation into line with the acquis, and our strong development of institutions that will be in charge of its application and implementation. It is equally important to establish an effective market economy that is able to cope with competition and market forces within the Union. I would also single out a few European Commission messages here at the time of the negotiations. In short. Croatia must fulfil its obligations arising from the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Some of these obligations could be defined as criteria for opening or closing negotiations in certain chapters. Croatia needs to ensure an effective system of coordination of negotiations. It is necessary to continuously strengthen the communication and integration of the negotiating structure with the authorities of the state administration. It is of paramount importance for Croatia at this time to work to strengthen administrative and judicial capacity for effective implementation of the acquis. During the negotiations, the EU will seek and monitor the results achieved. To fully achieve this goal, Croatia will have to ensure the efficiency of the judiciary and the quality reform of the state administration. The European Commission also proposes to develop clear action plans for the takeover and implementation of the acquis with precise time limits. In use before access funds, Croatia must achieve maximum efficiency as this will demonstrate its absorption capacity for the subsequent use of the European Union funds intended for Member States. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for your attention and I propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt the proposed plan for the harmonisation of Croatian legislation set out in Appendix A to the National Programme for 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53762	Thank you very much, I am opening the debate. Mr. Gordan Jandroković is the first representative of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53763	No text
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53764	Thank you, on behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Ante Markov, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53765	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HSS Club also joins the fact that this is the first law we are discussing, the first item of the agenda at this session, is precisely the Plan for harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2006, i.e. the addition of A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union. Of course, we have done a good part of the work in these last few years in the process of our legislative approximation with the acquiss of the European Union. We have done a good part of the work both at the legislative level and at the level that is sometimes necessary to establish the seriousness and balance of relations in each country that seeks to get closer to the market orientation that seeks to place its economy at the level of successful countries. Of course, before making a statement on the metrics on behalf of the HSS Club, he would point out several important assessments, important settings and important definitions that are important in order to discuss this harmonisation plan fully. It is evident that the overall economy today is under the great influence of globalisation processes, that technological progress, knowledge, education, vocational training, but above all free movement of labour and capital have become growth generators and that they are affecting the level of growth in a particular economy and how competitiveness is happening in that country. The opportunity to join developed countries may never have been this far-reaching in history, seemingly very tangible, but of course the danger of ever missing such an opportunity has never been greater before. Do not respond to this challenge means either stagnating or even turning back. The dangers are as great as the challenges. All that I'm talking about is not only a specific feature of the countries joining the European Union but that's what those more developed countries and those processes in which Croatia is presently located are no different from the processes in which the most developed countries of the world are, and that is how to respond to market challenges and how to enable economic growth, raising living standards and competitiveness. At the same time, with such global assessments, we, at the Croatian Peasant Party club, must also assess that Croatia is facing major and serious problems. So far, growth generated exclusively by high personal and public consumption, insufficiently with the quality investments that took place in the economy, and all of this was clearly reflected in the high foreign trade deficit, as well as in the public sector, and there was a clear rise in external and public debt. Has Croatia been able to impose itself in this competitive environment and has it reached income levels relative to the way it is used to living and spending? That is why the challenges that are now facing Croatia can no longer be reduced to just the transition to the market economy and the accession of the European Union, because this is in itself insufficient. It is necessary to create conditions, but it is also very important to clarify something that is conceptual in Croatia is often misunderstood. Entry into the European Union should not be seen as a goal because it cannot be a goal, but as a means to achieve the objective. In order to achieve the goal, it is to create a competitive economy in which rich and satisfied people participate. So it may be good sometimes to do exactly the point behind this, to explain what nature is about. The European Union is not the goal, it is the means to reach the main objective. Whether such large challenges, difficult challenges, can be offered easily-said solutions. Of course, every easy solution expressed in hastily hastily hastily in history, in our short history of Croatia's state has proved to be great delusions that we have paid too often. Why am I saying this all together? This is not what I'm saying to strengthen that side that is held by skeptics, I'm not saying this in order to create an impression of the difference between those who support non-critical discussions of these processes and those who still want to point out that processes do not take place for speed and for process purposes, but processes take place for content that must be involved in these processes. Because some big Croatian illusions that some of us got rid of, some of us didn't. Some have cost us dearly, but there's no reason to repeat the same mistake over and over again, we need to learn something from our close past. We have to learn, sometimes we thought that only the change in ownership was sufficient reason for our economy, for our economy to be successful, so we thought that by moving to the state in private, in any way, it would be resolved and relations within that economy. Today, we are all absolutely certain that this is not so, that the kind of ownership is not conditioned by certainty whether that capital will be effective or not, but that the way in which it is managed is butaneous and crucial, whether the management will be effective or not. We also gave ourselves the right to have a very educated and qualified workforce. That jobs will be opened by the state and that the government can resolve all these issues in one term and relatively short term. They were all delusions. The European Union is not a delusion, it is definitely a possibility, a challenge and a way to achieve the key objectives that Croatia as a national economy and a national state should achieve. Realising sustainable growth of a gross social product that must be above 4%. Reduce unemployment to an extent acceptable to Croatian society. The increase in quality of life may have been the first. Therefore, these strategic objectives define us in the desire to adopt standards, methods, measures and methodologies on how to reach these strategic objectives. Which is, to go back to the metric now, what we ourselves have in some way when we have discussed this material, led ourselves astray. We are here in the Croatian Parliament in February 2005 discussing this same matter and assessing the laws that should be passed, which would serve Croatia so that it can be prepared seriously to meet those strategic goals that one economy should achieve, we have adopted a list, so on the proposal of the HSS Club, the amendment was accepted. Other bill proposals were included that should have found their place and were to be realized, implemented in the past year. Not that they weren't realised but they didn't find a place in the 2006 projection, and this Parliament brought them in. We all accepted them together, unanimously. What are the laws? The first is the Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Production for Tourism Plating. The second is the Law on this sharing or time use. So the form of how to make shares of individual societies, their property should not be given to permanent property but to be able to have a form of time use. One instrument to protect the national economy in assessing what is important at strategic level to protect and what is not. We at the HSS Club are not clear why it didn't happen again, which is why it didn't happen. If it is not already realised that it is realised in the course of 2006 and that, clearly, Appendix A is complete. It is not important to list these laws in question which we agree should be passed but is an important measure of these laws. Whether these laws will strengthen the role of the Croatian economy. whether we will create the elements to strengthen both in the negotiating and in the legislative position or continue to weaken our own position so that when I come into the negotiation process we will have nothing more to negotiate. So we've all forgotten the metrics together, but we're boasting that we have a lot of laws, almost 60 that we need to bring in to achieve what? Nothing. Not these laws unless they are in office of the Croatian economy, Croatian society and Croatian citizens, they mean nothing. They will, truthfully, mean harmonisation in this methodology, but I will not mean, I will not be the basis for achieving those strategic goals of the Croatian economy on gross social product from employment growth, from the growth of efficiency of the economy and all those elements that are important. And clearly, that will not achieve a fundamental goal, and that is a better and better life. So what the HSS club wants to mention. Of course, it doesn't matter if these two proposals were made by the HSS or not, whether they were adopted or not. We can take it all as our hurt vanity, but we'll get over it. We will not be critics about this, we will not be Eurosceptics, but we will be very critical when it comes to the way in which individual laws are adopted and content. Because it's obvious that they're being brought, so to speak, for the other side, and not for us here. We must pass these laws for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia absolutely support the momentum to strengthen the Croatian economy, to legally strengthen the possibility that the Croatian economy will participate as much as possible in consumption in Croatia at least in Croatia if it cannot be in the European Union. But our battle isn't lost just on the international agenda. We're losing the battle on the domestic market. Therefore, let us strengthen the position of the Croatian economy here in our home. To do that, we have the experience of other countries. It is not true that other countries do not apply similar measures of legal solutions to encourage the domestic economy. Austria, and we are being transferred that by the action of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce "Let's Buy Croatian" we have injured some of the harmony of their legislation. The Austrian Chamber of Commerce has a company that owns 30%, owns a bank in which it owns 30% together with the largest Austrian producers and encourages and creates conditions for the development of the Austrian economy. And our "Bought Croatian" action, which I personally claim should be called Croatian, and then we will buy Croatian, it is flawed, there are reasons why it should stop. Therefore, not wanting to challenge the plan of harmonisation, not wanting to question the continued survival of the HSS in the coalition for Europe, I am obliged to warn that the critical limit of understanding that we at the HSS Club have on red, as is this one right here, which I have on red. And we'll be very careful to expect further moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53766	Thank you for seeing the red light. Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBH, MDS, Mr. Representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53767	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. Let us look at the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union in a way that is very easy to say in the beginning on behalf of the PGS, SBHs and the IMF to support the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union with the add-on, and b it is clear that we also support all concrete actions that appear in the process of joining the European Union to support all that comes from the National Programme, from the work of all these professional bodies working on it today and that we will also support the plan of harmonisation and legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis. However, it is certain that we would like to take advantage of this debate and say certain things that we hold important and that are important right now and at this moment when Croatia is beginning to move faster towards the Union, which we are not satisfied with and which we think will be a permanent obstacle to our full and true integration into Europe. In Croatia, in recent years very often, first of all from the representatives of the executive government proudly spoke about reforms, about various reforms that were implemented or implemented in Croatian society, I will only comment on some. About the pension reform that the prime minister still had to answer for today in a way that he was responsible for some tails and pension reform that is therefore not rounded up, and we will now open through working groups a story that it is necessary to reconsider it again. In Croatia, there have been many conversations and talks in the last 10 years about health reform, which is also important on this European integration path. I'll be free to say, we've actually implemented two reforms of health care, I have both reforms of health and I have complete documentation in this country, and today in this country, the executive is calmly and casually talking about today starting a health reform. Two health reforms have been carried out since '95. literally, so today we talk about moving into health reform is really at least weird. The reform of the judiciary is constantly mentioned how much we existed or become a legal state I would not comment on, I don't exactly consider myself at home, but many times with the opportunity of different initiatives and legislative proposals concerning local and regional self-government by the executive government, we had an explanation for the postponement of changes in local and regional self-government with an explanation preparing a full reform of local and regional self-government systems, local and regional self-government financing systems, a system of authority and everything that, of course, there is such a reform that we haven't spoken of in this way. We, I repeat, appreciate what was particularly done in 2004 and 2005 in the approximation of Croatia's Europe, but we want to say this opportunity and by supporting this plan that we are aware of and to see a lot of what could and should have been done. Among other things, we point our finger to the necessity of reforming the local and regional self-government in Croatia, to do everything necessary to make the famous scheme 92% plus 4%, I mean the fiscal capacity of this country, starting to change, from the fiscal capacity of Croatia 92% is the state, 4% is the city of Zagreb, 4% are all other local and regional self-government, about that is how we heard it many times and in this assembly. In the meantime, we have had a whole series of initiatives of the most diverse parties that are participating in the Parliament, with initiatives on changes from the legislation relating to the distribution of tax money, to the distribution of fiscal capacity, and nothing has ever been seriously considered by the executive government, let alone accepted and always remains that story will be integrated, entirely with the project of reform of local and regional self-government, and nothing is happening. I don't think that's good, I think we're gonna get stuck. These days it seems to me that some countries that are far ahead of us have stuck to the issue of corruption on the road to European integration. I would hate for Croatia to happen when, with a significant part of the technical negotiations with the European Union, it is moving away, too, to get caught up in some of the unimplemented things that it can then be taken as a reason for the postponement. Here with you, Madam Secretary of State, we have been present together these days in a non-long meeting and I was sorry, perhaps for the first time in this House when I was present in a working arrangement which could not be discussed over the protocol for a longer time. It was a delegation from the Committee of the Regions from Brussels, the Committee of the Regions of the European Parliament headed by President Lantaga, German State, the Baden-Wutenberg region. And of course, as this protocol always does, we couldn't really participate actively in that conversation, but it was interesting much of what we heard and what we know, absolutely all of it, which is, for example. A few thesis that I think we've been forgetting about for the past few years. First of all, the European Commission's position through a new Lisbon strategy, given that regional self-government must be strengthened, that regional self-government powers must be increased and its fiscal capacity and that regional self-government must be through regional development the bearer of state development, that state development is a sum, simply a sum of regional developments, that through this citizens must have a greater impact on life and work, of course through the upper level of local self-government, or self-government, which is the region. I'd like to ask representatives of the government here. Do you really think that counties are European regions? Do you really think that these counties will be able to tell their personnel potentials, their potentials in power, their financial potentials to be partners with European regions in the implementation of the European programmes that the President of the Committee of the Regions has told us about, because the realisation of funds that we often mention is still dominantly taking place through joint programmes and regional cooperation? Will no one be angry with me to say whether Požečka County, Križevacka County, Karlovac County and Lička County will be able to work with the region of Koruska, with the region of Veneto that surpasses Croatia as a whole, with the region of Baden-Wutenberg? Well, of course not. Why am I saying all this? Because in all this together, I've been going through these materials even though they're extensive. We have a few cartoons on this subject I'm talking about. It may not really matter, but I think it will become an obstacle to Croatia in two, three years, as corruption has now become an obstacle, for example, to Romania. We have all this on page 368 of the finding that the government has adopted a framework programme of decentralisation. I wrote down the Parliament and put in a few questionnaires. We also have that the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government has been passed, etc. And that's what's done to us on this internal structure plan. Absolutely insufficient and absolutely insufficient to enable one level of local self-government or regional self-government to co-operate with adequate levels in Europe. So I think we need to think about it. The statistical regions will not, I can't, will not substitute because statistical regions are a fraud. And of course that's clear, I don't think we can offer them. You cannot offer a Adriatic region to cooperate with any region in the area, in the European region around us for cooperation when it is clearly known that from the Adriatic region exists or there may be only statistical calculations of the GDP I do not know what and not real life. Therefore, we at the Club of Regional Parties are calling for certain political prejudices that may be in part historical, which are part of modern history, which are very often part of the result within the party's problems and within the party conflicts in the concept of the part where Croatia needs to start regionalising to start removing for reasons that this would not be at some point a serious obstacle to the completion of the process that we all work together for because the national programme is really all in common support. And for that reason, I'd like to conclude with that. This plan is not a problem to support. But there's a lot of what's in this plan because it's written like that because it's supposed to be and we're not working on it. I'm just going to briefly add out there on page 410. It's like, one thing that intrigued me a little bit, and it's literally like this, now it has nothing to do with regionalism but with health care, "checking out the provision of direct health care to citizens given the quality and type of health services they carry out chambers". And then two pages describe Croatia's medical, Croatian dental, Croatian chamber of biochemists, nurses and pharmacists. They're not doing anything. They are nowhere near the position that they can carry out any control of the provision of services, direct quality control and species. And for that reason, if we write things and we don't apply these things to our everyday lives, it won't be good. I think that these things will come to us as steps that we will stumble on because I just think that now that we have a social climate that is, I'm sure we are, and we're sure in the club, most right in that country that we are really determined to go to europeanisation of Croatia whether or not we should be more determined to do some reforms on the internal agenda which means approaching the level of decision-making for citizens and in the right sense of the words will not be until one level of local and regional self-government has powers that are equal and but couples to the highest self-government units in the Member States of the European Union, regardless of whether they are called Landers, rats or regions we are clear that we are facing it better for us in two years than in twenty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53768	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Tonino Picula on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53769	Mr. President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs! The list of 59 laws that the Croatian Parliament is due to pass this year in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union is, of course, acceptable, should be supported, but it also raises the question of whether such legislative activity is sufficiently intensive for the timely completion of the total legislative reform. It should be pointed out that the government only gives the Parliament a selective picture of what is expected to be done in one year without data on the remaining total legislative work. That is why the time has finally come for all laws, regulations to be passed not only in the current years but also in the coming years until the end of the work to bring legislation into line. Such a total timetable of legislative changes requires us and the European Council, which asked the Government last December to respond to the accession partnership Croatia by drawing up its multiannual legislative agenda. There should, of course, be no chance of opening up opportunities for Croatia to join the Union as quickly as possible but should not be avoided to warn about the quality of what we are doing on the European project here in Croatia. In 2004, 33 laws were harmonised with the acquis and in 2005, only 29. Such a rhythm of harmony is far from what was done in the previous assembly and earlier years. There have never been less than 50 harmonised laws a year. It can therefore be said that in 2004 and 2005 there is a period of stagnation and lagging in the process of harmonisation of legislation. This conclusion is directly confirmed by the government itself in the proposal for a communication strategy because for the first time in one official document, it mentions that Croatia's readiness for membership will be achieved in 2009 and not in 2007 as the goal of the Croatian governments so far. Just to remind you, even in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Joining the European Union for 2005, the section on the national interest of the Republic of Croatia states that, I quote, the objective of Croatia is to complete the negotiations by 2007 and achieve the level of readiness necessary for full membership in the European Union. This delay in the deadline for completion of internal reforms is logical as a result of the loss of steps in the work of implementing legislative reforms over the past two years. In addition, the government has not yet joined the European integration process in a recognizably comprehensive way. The SDP noted on several occasions that the process requires equal activity both in negotiations and in reforms, and in communication in Europe with citizens. Over the past two years, the government has obviously concentrated mainly on negotiating issues and has ignored the completion of reforms, including legislative reforms. There is the impression that the implementation of the communication strategy is particularly neglected, but there will be more words about it in the next agenda. I believe that the abortion in any of the three elements listed would jeopardise the achievement of the overall membership project in the Union. In addition to the adoption of new harmonised laws, special attention should be paid to their implementation. That's what my colleagues were talking about before me. The European Commission will particularly monitor our ability to implement new laws effectively. The monitoring of the implementation of legislation should therefore become an even more important part of the activities of both the Parliament and the parliamentary committees. This opportunity should be said that often times the procedures for the urgent adoption of European laws are also used to push through some solutions that do not have a foothold in the acquis of the European Union but are proposed for internal needs. In those cases, the P.Z.E. markings shall be used. it is placed mainly due to almost non-essential alignments with Aqui and then content solutions which are part of the internal needs are placed under the same European mark. It is noted that the whole legislative harmonisation plan in 2006 is much more the result of the mechanical collection of the proposals of individual resolutions, rather than the strategic plan of the content of the legislative change dynamics, which would define the central coordinating body and then agree with the resolutions to implement them. That could have been the case with the legislative harmonisation plan for the two laws to be passed twice during the same year. It is about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Zones in the First and Fourth Quarters and the Law on Plays of Happiness and Reward Games in the Second and Fourth Quarters. My colleagues and colleagues, this plan to bring domesticity into line with European legislation, is another stage on the way to Croatia's full integration into the European Union. The disadvantages it contains are of course not a reason to reject it but to repair it, to realize it and to exceed it. It is particularly important to keep this in mind at a time when Croatia is faced with more and more demanding Brussels negotiators at the negotiating table, in an ambience of increased resistance to further expansion on many sides. Persistent harmonisation of legislation is nothing more than insisting on reforms, and this is the best communication strategy towards both the Union and the citizens of Croatia. Therefore, the SDP Club will also support the adoption of this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53770	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HNS respected deputy president Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53771	Mr. President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin this presentation on behalf of the HNS Club with a commendation on the composing forms for monitoring the harmonisation of legislation. It is of course useful to us and I suppose that all or at least those of us who are particularly interested in it will keep it and follow it through this form that we have received as laws, as they come on the agenda and as they harmonize. And our information and documentation service here in the Parliament that has prepared a review of EU harmonised legislation is also very useful. I will now move on, however, to the problems that we at the HNS Club see regarding this proposal for a legislative harmonisation plan and the accompanying documents that we have received. The first problem that arises is of course that in this written proposal that we have received is a list of 59 so 60 laws that are harmonised, but of course in that CD that we have received and then all the rules, protocols and accompanying legal documents that will also have to go through this Assembly. This is how it counts when this House is sitting for all 4 weeks in all working months, so not 2 as it is sometimes the custom to meet, 2 no, but all 4 weeks in all working months we should adopt on average 3 legal documents daily tied to the European Union. Three legislative documents should therefore be adopted on each session day only with regard to the European Union. And that number, that dynamic that we're getting into, I think it's just a problem, and we should kind of deal with it. It might be good to propose some, some of the selection criteria or some of the criteria of grouping certain documents in order to facilitate this and to eventually unite some of these procedures and to discuss and adopt this, this mass de facto legal material that is before us because, otherwise, it threatens to apply one of the two ways that people actually do not know what it is and what it is debated and what it is brought about. One way not to give them the data, and another way to get them through the data and put them in more or less the same situation. Another problem, which is otherwise characteristic of Croatian legislation, and here simply with the dynamics and number itself will increase in the opinion of the HNS Club is the problem of harmonisation within Croatian legislation. So the harmonisations and these laws of new ones that are passed and existing to avoid contradictions, I don't know, in the Environmental Protection Act and the Agricultural Land Act or any different laws that overlap in terms of regulation of the same area. This problem of unharmonised or often contradictory provisions with, within different laws that regulate similar or the same area is our usual problem, and with such dynamics and numbers there is a problem of course or a huge danger to increase. In our opinion, therefore, we should also find some way to avoid this, or to monitor it regularly and systematically in order to avoid this problem. The third problem we see here at the HNS Club is how to approach this and whether they exist, it is also a question of whether there are any criteria or restrictions on how to approach this situation change, in fact, as long as our harmonisation here in the Assembly, changes in legislation within the European Union, and then the need for the same law to return to our procedure multiple times. I don't know if that's the result, if such expected changes are the result that individual laws appear in multiple quarts, so then we're going to coordinate one of those same laws on multiple occasions. Is there a limit to how long we've been doing it, when it's thought we've met the criteria, so the question? And the fourth problem that the HNS Club would like to address here is the problem of accompanying materials that we received on the CD, or those reports in some way meeting the Croatian situation of the Copenhagen criteria that we received as accompanying material. In fact, we at the HNS club believe that this raises the question of what is the function of these reports, i.e. what is the function of the process of approaching Croatia's membership in the European Union now that the negotiations have started and when the negotiations take place and it is obvious that we are moving towards that membership. It is our opinion that, in the first place, the function of these negotiations and the writing of these reports and the drafting of these reports should be to improve the situation in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, reforms in Croatia, insight into how the situation in Croatia seems to be individual, individual, and then improving the situation in the Republic of Croatia. However, of course, access can be different. So, instead of finding out what the real situation is and trying to improve it, bringing it closer to the European criteria, and threatening European criteria, the goal can also be to metaphorically say tricking a teacher or a deceived teacher. In other words, try to show yourself, or try to show the whole situation better than she is. It's our opinion that that's not the point, that it's, that we're wasting time and energy on the wrong things. There is no need to deceive the teacher, I think the goal should be to help and exploit the process of approaching the European Union in order to improve the standards of functioning in individual sectors in Croatia. So let me give a few examples that I think here or a little, thank me, which here seem like an attempt to trick the teacher a little bit. One applies, to give several examples, to the part that speaks about criteria, political criteria, so to political, part of the Copenhagen-based political criteria of a series of human rights and civil society criteria. Among other things, it says that today protection from discrimination enjoys a high level, I quote, so "Today protection from discrimination enjoys a high level of legal protection.", etc. then it is said that people can sue for different kinds of courts, including the Strasbourg court. However, there is no real problem, which is that discrimination is a problem in Croatia. We have hundreds of examples of this and related to the gay population and related to certain ethnic groups, Roma in the first row, but still. So we have a whole series of examples and there, of course, must be ambition for us not to have European standards but that if we can have far more standards than they are European. Because Europeans are mixed, hand to heart. But it is in our interest to have much more standards and to take advantage of this process of approaching the Union that these high standards of removal and prevention and punishment of discrimination are achieved, not to try to leave the impression that there is no such thing in our lives when we know from everyday life that there exists and it exists very aggressively. There is another problem, also in this part of human rights and civil society, and that is the problem and function of the government's Association Office. I believe that the problem of the government's Association Office arises especially when it comes to application. For example, it is mentioned that the Code of Positive Practice, as regards the fight against discrimination under any criteria and criteria for achieving financial support to various civil society associations, will therefore be entrusted to the monitoring of the implementation of this Code, or is entrusted, among other things, to the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Associations. As is known, this office disqualified itself simply. Disqualified for this task and can only harm us that anyone sees what from that Office as a view of the population, from gay to civilian associations at all, what they come up with as attitudes. From that office, if you remember, that's what we discussed here also in this House, the division of civil associations to hostile and friendly and friendly subversives is coming out, and I don't know all of them. A kind of public discussion that, fortunately already few exceptions, disappeared from Croatian public speech. She's just not anymore, she's been dominant for a while, fortunately not anymore. But it's from the government's office and it's still coming out. And to argue that this, that it is an institution that will advocate and control even the qualification of individual organisations to obtain funds, is simply dangerous and contrary to what we want to achieve. The institution disqualified itself to do so and someone who believes that associations are divided into good and evil, subversive and constructive, simply cannot do so. That is, we consider an example of such an attempt to fool the teacher here instead of using it for positive reforms in Croatia itself. Another series of problems also of this kind are related to economic criteria. You know, of course, that the main economic criterion for Copenhagen criteria is a competitive economy. It's important that the economy be competitive. Now under these conditions in our additional material called the economic criterion, the main medium-term objectives are said to be the reduction of external and public debt. Obviously, reducing external and public debt and any other debt is a good thing, but that can't be the main medium-term goal. This cannot be the main medium-term goal of any rational economy, the question is what is the use of this debt, what is it about. It is obvious that a competitive economy is the main objective, which means growth. Croatia restarted eight transition Central European countries at the growth rate last year 3, namely 2004. 3.8, 2005. 5.1. So there's also this space where we should use this process of approximation to help ourselves and to show us, there's some indication in reform instead of trying as little as Potenkin's villages show it. The HNS will of course support this plan because it is, the consensus is part of our common path, but we are warning of the need for urgent changes in approach and strategy and may be to do so in cooperation with either the National Committee or with some kind of club coordination or other parliamentary committees, but let us try to correct it in realisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53772	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53773	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. As regards this Plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquiss of the European Union for 2006 Appendix A to the national programme, etc. Here we see that 59 legal measures are listed. Since the Household Activity Act, I don't suppose that's where we're going to end our taverns through the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act, I don't suppose we're going to end them, either, through the Arms Act, well here because of this shooting in front of these clubs, it wouldn't be a bad idea to control it a little bit. The law on incentives, investment, etc. The Law amending the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds and not listing all these other legal texts, also lists 59 legal measures. But what's the point? All of us or the hordes of these laws, respected gentlemen, have passed, say, six months ago or a year ago, perhaps a year and a half ago, two of the most, and now again, all these laws are being changed or should be amended or harmonised with these European standards. All our life in Croatia is that year by year we edit something, change it, and in these changes no one else manages in this country. However, it is as rich as someone here says, but on the other hand, such practice causes a legislative chaos. We create unrest, destroy the existing, and the new nor to revive is already changing. It is often known that parliamentary MPs warn as to the Law on Croatian Mail that something is not in line with the European under quotes "normatives", "standards", etc. But it doesn't want to be respected, that political discipline does its part, and that madness just goes on forever. And what does that really mean? It means somehow to run a state without a concept. I don't know if it's masochism or what it is, but it's just one huge problem. For example, the Hunting Act was passed six months ago, and now the Government is suggesting that it must be brought into line with European norms. It's the same thing with the Law on Railways, the Law on Waste, and so on. In one word, it is necessary to get serious about it, to comply with those laws, not to keep repeating the same job. We keep going round and round and round in place all the time. This plan that predominantly harmonizes these 59 laws will often have to be discussed in two readings, first and second readings, it is a huge job and there is a normal one, and often the laws that bear the label P.Z.E. They send in a parliamentary procedure that's being debated in one reading. There is a normal possibility of making a mistake, however we are already taught, if we can change the Constitution twice in a year, then I guess we can change such laws a few times a year. On the other hand, as far as one sentence is concerned, I will return to this harmonisation from the legislation later. In this communication strategy, I even have a little impression that the fulado at this point in the agenda, and that perhaps the Parliament should not have discussed it, but that the government or the ministry should have referred it to some promotional or promotional agency, not that we are discussing it. As far as what many have talked about Eurosepticism is concerned, it is also legitimate, but those who today are the most enigmatic Euroseptics of the 90s have, say, destroyed Yugoslavia without borders in Europe and what has changed. In 92, the European Union recognised Croatia, the International Community has helped to ensure that the war in these areas is not more bloody than it was. Croatia has sought an international war crimes court and today Milosevic and their entire team, some and Croatian citizens, are there. Croatia is benefiting from the European Union whether we recognise it to ourselves or not, but we must also understand that we cannot do anything and expect to get money from someone else. The truth Croatia will have to open its market that we have done in the early 1990s, but we have to admit to ourselves that our industry has not been closed by foreigners, not by foreign imports, our company's imports, there are good chains and foreign ownership. The banks didn't sell us strangers, we sold them ourselves. HT hasn't been taken from us. We've sold it ourselves. So today, for opportunities in this country, we have nothing to blame strangers, the European Union, UNPROFOR, I don't know who, America, but myself alone. People should also be told, if all you want to do is isolate the country, okay. It's your call. Finally, you gentlemen will be the citizens in a referendum on this matter to be declared. You're the ones making the decision. Are you going to tell me what's going on? Okay, but who? The political elite, no, she'll certainly take care of herself. Importers are also not going to be stubborn. They made it. Foreign owners in Croatia also do not, they are most suited to one closed Croatia. The customers of the property also do not, and they are suited to a self-insulated, self-satisfaction Croatia. Who do you think we can tell? You're on your own. But that's what we are, I said in the '90s, we brought down Yugoslavia with Europe, and today, according to the music we listen to, I don't know, to express myself in Yugoslavia. On the other hand, on the other hand, such skeptics as this impression is created in the Croatian public were neither Slovenians nor Hungarians nor Slovaks nor Czechs nor Poles. All those we looked up to yesterday with high today are ahead of us. Well, thanks to the great deal of the European Union and the fact that, unlike us, they clearly didn't have four years of bloody war. So let's say, and that's why we couldn't reach that gross product from 90th or industrial production from 90th. And here, when, to refer to Mr. Markov who had just said something about it, we have a situation that today's gross social product per capita, according to purchasing power, one Poland has 10 thousand 900 and Croatia has 8 thousand 900 dollars. One Hungary 13 thousand 300, and I said 8 thousand 900. Czech Republic 15 thousand 500, Slovakia 12 thousand 100, Slovenia 17 thousand 400. One Slovakia, which is about a million people larger than Croatia, exports about $27.7 billion, and we only $1.2 billion. They're importing 29.2 billion, and we're only 16 or even 16.6 billion dollars. Here, these are the basic figures why this country needs the European Union. True, those in the West because of the need for the integration of the 10th and for the introduction of the euro certainly live something more difficult than they lived 3 or 4 years ago, but Croatia should seek the euro the most. Far more than some others just so we can sort of escort that trade deficit. That is why the European Union, although I have one title here from the Financial Times, says that if the European Union is not reforming Croatia cannot be accepted. That's actually a comment, I said, the Financial Times, which warns that without the Constitution, the Union can only have 27 members. It is clear in all these materials that we have received, etc., these stories in the public that foreigners will buy all of Croatia, and this I claim that we have left practically the country at the moment when we decided to give them all the banks. On some side, they may have consolidated the same thing, but on the other hand they took over the whole country. Now we rebel when an individual sells 500 or 1,000 squares, but let's just say when one INA, HT, maybe tomorrow "Liburnia", "Jadrolinia" and so on. And who's selling? It sells exclusively states and clearly sells individuals. All in all, it is understandable that this communication strategy, on the one hand, as well as this plan of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, should be accepted, but clearly in all these dubiosiss that appear openly, frankly, without twisting and speaking. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53774	Thank you. 16.37 timed out to apply for this point of debate. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53775	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Cain's insolent claim that we and Europe have destroyed Yugoslavia. So 95% of Croatian citizens in the referendum appeared undeniably to want an independent Croatian state. And that thesis goes to those who today accuse Croatia. And otherwise, in Istria alone, more than 95% voted for an independent Croatian state. So how can you say that?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53776	Dear Representative Ivan Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53777	Well, here's what I'm gonna do to make this right. It's easy to tell my colleague Cain, but every time you go out for a pay phone, you cross over. That we and Europe crashed? Well, Europe defended Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia was Britain's favorite and dearest child. They created it twice. So just remember what Lord Owen and Lord Carrington were saying. What did Francois Mitteran say? So don't insult those 15 thousand best Croatian sons who gave their lives to the Croatian state or 30 thousand of them who were wounded, etc., etc. So you insult your Istria, which you are so proud of. Cross over, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53778	HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53779	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. And this year, we have been given the bench plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union. And again, we must ask one fundamental question, and that is whether Croatia really needs to do these precise legislative harmonisation plans before "screening" is even made, i.e. according to the Croatian "review" in our legislation. As things stand now, we can predict here these 59 laws that we may change during this year, which, therefore, we may be able to discuss during this year. But it doesn't mean that over the year, as we run a review of all the chapters of the acquis we may not need to supplement this list here. That's why we at the HSP Club think the government here acted very boldly when it went to fix which points will be discussed over the year. Maybe there'll be more. But what I want to warn you here is that the laws mentioned here have already been changed in the past and last year, and some in the previous assembly of the Parliament and every time, literally every time some of these laws came, they were always justified that this is exactly the harmonisation of the right that we need to join the European Union. It's enough just to state the Telecommunications Act. According to this modest record, I have changed three times over the last three years and still is not in line with European legislation. Is it because someone in the ministry doesn't want to play too much against the existing big players on the telecommunications market, whether because they don't see their obvious mistakes, but the fact is that we're still going to have to change it again. The same goes for the other laws that are here and then the man wonders why we did it all together? What have we been discussing these laws for so far? Why, then, was it claimed that it was a law that would ensure full compliance with European legislation, and why is this all expensive then done by an emergency procedure, claiming that this is exactly the kind of change that we must adopt most urgently? These are the things that we at the HSP club about this rebellion. The second is the very technology of the law. What can the Parliament possibly adopt, or what is our actual maneuvering space? I ask this because it is not clear in most cases whether it is really necessary to make this adjustment so that it becomes practically tomorrow by emergency procedure, or it can be an adjustment that will be activated then and when Croatia will one day become a member of the European Union. Why do we have to activate these laws now, or whether it is necessary to consider it, at least we have the right here in the Croatian Parliament to say which of these parts of the law we must activate today, which we can leave behind for later. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not even an excuse enough to make a quick change of laws because it still gives us certain years of start, but what is even more interesting to us is, of course, the content of these changes itself. So, not only what laws we're going to change, but in which direction we're going to change. So let me quote a few pages of the opinion of the European Commission that are at least questionable to us in our club. So, first of all, it's the sugar market. We remind once again that the negotiations on the sugar market are currently ongoing despite, for example, the strategy of the European Union's sugar market may come to life as of July 2006, he said, perhaps because it is not certain that it will indeed be adopted and that it will be an official document of the European Union. It is also mentioned in the European Commission's opinion that the construction of Croatia's new fishing fleet is contrary to European requirements. Is that why we're gonna give up the development of our fishing fleet? Does this mean another amendment to the Fisheries Act in that direction? It is also said in the opinion that we should further harmonise the legislation relating to the Croatian railways, and that this law is also not clear in this programme whether we have done it in a sufficiently good way. To relate here and to the current story of direct shipping in shipping. On page 80 of the European Commission's opinion on the Republic of Croatia, it is said that there should be unlimited access to cabotage in maritime transport. Look out, there are almost no countries in the European Union. Why do we have to do this, and does this mean that this law, which is currently in the process, is also directed towards it? It is also said in the opinion that all heating fuels are exempt from a special tax, and that the exemption framework is not in line with the legal property of the community. Does that mean we're gonna have to adapt here, too? The same goes for VAT. According to the European acquis, we need to abolish the zero VAT rates. Do we need to do that? And, of course, telecommunications where it is clearly said that the opening of a market in telecommunications is threatened by a lack of political will. So these are some of the questions, just some of the questions, these are some of the questions, but such a question could be asked practically for all the 59 laws that are mentioned here. So, it is not only about whether we are really going to change a certain law, but in what direction this change is going to be, and whether what the European Union is asking us to activate that moment, or whether it is going to be a transitional period, and whether it is necessary in some European Union countries at all because everything is functioning normally and without such demands that we here are post-traumatic. From cabotage to fishing, from VAT to domestic fuel tax. So, respected ladies from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, we will support this legislative harmonisation plan by putting a large reserve on its contents and an even greater reserve on the content of the laws themselves and on the meaning of such imagined adaptation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53780	Thank you. The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53781	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Although the Republic of Croatia's accession programme to the European Union is comprehensive matter and complex and, in any case, it should be discussed fully, but for reasons of expeditionivity, allow me to limit myself to only one part of it relating to the social security of Croatian citizens, and in a section called pensioners. We believe that this part of this programme does not contain at least the needs, wishes, demands and rights of Croatian citizens of future and present pensioners. In this regard, the reform of the pension system is said to continue to improve the fiscal and social sustainability of the pension system. There is no analysis of whether sustainability exists at all. It does not compete with sustainability in other countries, and we do not know how Europe's citizens accept it. This finding that it is about improving the continuation of the fiscal part it is okay, it is possible. However, from the point of view of the social sustainability of the pension system, it does not, in any case, stand because one thing is contrary to the other. In fact, the reduction in the fiscal share of the pension system for any reason necessarily leads to a reduction in the right and that means the level of pension income, and that is contrary to each other. Furthermore, it is said here in a positive sense that the amended formula for harmonising pensions with the rate of growth of the average wage, which undoubtedly referred to the possibility that such a decision in some way would reverse the effects of early start-up pension reforms. Once again, we have one-sided access to this problem and we do not have a comparative view of what it looks like in the countries of the European Union with which we are harmonising the laws. I think that there are a little bit of a different relationship and that we simply didn't look at this problem the same way as we kind of got dizzy and went into retirement reform without serious analysis of the consequences that it brings and that it will still bring. And it's characterized in this program as something positive and good. I agree that it is good that budget allocations are normally reduced, especially in the part where we come into a situation that it may significantly burden the budget. But again, we have the opposite here to say that this was done in order to maintain the pension system. And that's the only way we can keep the pension system going out of this text right here. Furthermore, I say that a continuation of the reform of generation solidarity will be approached by reviewing the change of the Institute's growing-sustaining training in such a way as not to transfer the protection burden to all insurance companies. I don't think these things stand either because all those who go into that part of the pension system are entitled to a larger or smaller number of internships in years also pay increased contributions, so if that's the case, they're not on the burden of the overall pension system or on the burden of other pensioners. And one of the very serious issues that I don't think is enough, they're absolutely not backed up with anything, let alone some scientific methods and analyses. It is a question of raising the age limit for retirement and equating age limits for women and men. In fact, even in Europe, these things are not done as quickly and they are not going as they want to be done with us. We know that we have raised the age line from 60 to 55 to 65-60, and that this process lasts until 2008. And here he says we are already proposing a new extension by 2010. So, in just two years. I think that such deadlines are very short and that they must be longer and that we must keep in mind and something that will happen and what will happen there after 2010 or 2012 or some year. So this part of the text isn't processed enough here either. Furthermore, if this is how it looks to increase the age limit above these limits, which are very high for Croatia now, the question is what are we going to do with these people who will come into such a situation that no one will want to keep at work, who will lose their jobs. I mean, does anyone think about how we're going to solve these issues that will definitely come to our agenda and that we're going to have problems with later? I'd like to say one more thing. You know, and this is what we say about our national program. I'd say it's not our national program. If that were the World Bank programme and the International Monetary Fund, but the national programme would be if we asked our citizens who are still working today and those who have recently retired whether it is their programme or not. I think they'd say it wasn't. We do not have other opportunities to maintain pension systems here, and that is that we did not foresee an increase in economic activity and through this increase in opportunities to allocate funds to pension budgets. We didn't say we'd increase the pension rate, pensioners and employees from 1.3 to 1 so we could increase it to 1 to 3. We do not take into calculation at all in the way of forming a pension system our ability and obligation of this government and all future governments to establish an economy at a far higher level, ensure greater production and higher wages and higher pensions. There is no such thing here in this program, which is perfectly logical that we have to expect because this program is starting from the existing state as if we've got it confused and it's going to stay that way for the next 30 years. If that's the case, it doesn't make any sense. Here's what I'm not sure for these reasons that we can support this program especially in this area unless we're looking at things differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53782	I thank you, Mr. Representative. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Pero Kovacevic. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53783	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. First of all, when it comes to the plan, I'm interested in it and I'm interested in it in military terms when it's moving into a plan that was your starting point? That's, for the plan, the most important thing is the basics? I'm going to show you a chart of what I think would be best for the military. We have a negotiating process, we have a legislative process to comply with our regulations. The logic of things would be that the negotiation process goes first and then the legislative process goes. It's the logic of things. [[I don't see it well.]] But that's why you hear. It means what's being negotiated and how it's being negotiated then it's turning into a law. So the negotiation process we started with the screenings and how the screening opens and what is being negotiated is the logic of things to legislate, not what we're doing, what we're doing right now. Look, there's another variant. Let's say the other one did something to get me to some level in the negotiation process we have to do something first. So before we say it, we're going into the negotiation process itself. And here we don't see it. The logic of things would mean that the negotiating process goes ahead, then the legislative process goes. This is about both real estate and agricultural land and the question of agriculture and other things because what can we do for ourselves? We will literally turn what we have been doing so far, copying the directives, turning the guidelines of the European Union into a law, and then disabling ourselves the room for manoeuvre within the framework of the negotiations. So legally speaking, we're going to get into this situation, and we have to have a plan for how and how to protect national interests. What is important for the protection of the interests and standards of Croatian citizens and then to get into this... part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't get it now which of these parameters are the starting points for designing the plan used? I don't think so. It seems to me none, and that's why I'd like to hear it from you, Madam Secretary, because the logic of things to me is that it's just going this way, and then we're creating opportunities, giving both the weight and the negotiating teams. We give them the opportunity to place what is necessary as an exception or that we do not have to accept at all about the legal gains of the European Union. In this way we also protect the standard of Croatian citizens and all that is said in the media in a negative sense, which could welcome, say, Croatian citizens if we go in this form of legislative stampede. And we ourselves know that in this House as well as in previous mandates, I am talking about this, in many things we have experienced this very legislative stampede because of the fact that all the regulations mean our laws that comply with the legal gains of the European Union according to Article 161. So they can't even be made to the urgency or can only be referred to in paragraph 2 if the Committee concludes that or for, for legislation or for the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, and you know that we have had to say the raw translations of guidelines and directives. And at this session, we're going to have the same bad translation as this convention is about citizenship. And I think it would be logical for us to finally begin to learn from our mistakes. Because that's how we create a part of legal uncertainty. Those regulations are changing. They can't be followed by state administration, can't be followed by lawyers, can't be followed by the judiciary. But the problem is that I've noticed over the past few years and the harmonisation of our laws with the legal gains of the European Union that the government must consider forming an expert team that will take care of that part. This means that all of these laws, when they come here to the Croatian Parliament, are legally expropriated and that we do not get half-translated guidelines and directives, and eventually the government itself at the same session and after the deadlines proposes 60,70 amendments. We even had a situation where we got a translation from Article 67. Then there was nothing in there, so we already came to Article 87. So it's these big problems and the government really has to pay attention. Now I'm going to tell you one important thing. Watch out. In this part of the alignment, a concrete example. The European Union, for example, interests that we must have a piano, and it is not interested in us keeping the piano in the middle of this assembly, up on the ceiling, on the left or on the right. So you can't literally go into this part of translation and everything else because we're going to get into this situation that we're now in that we don't know what the basics and the points of view are to make this plan. What will they negotiate if we take over all the guidelines and directives, copy everything into our legislation, adopt it, have nothing to negotiate. So let us be serious and ask the Government to really take such natural measures that we have a team that knows what it does, how it works, that it's all simulated and that we get the part that Croatian citizens understand what it is good, so these European Union standards what it brings to them? In order not to create their fam, but again to be Eurorealists, we are doing so to protect our interests not for speed, but means our view of the quality of the negotiations is important, and within that quality comes this legislative process. What we need is a negotiating team if that part of the negotiation will be resolved by the legislative process sooner. So what are they going to negotiate anyway? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53784	I thank my colleague Kovacevic. The next is Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, fellow Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53785	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues. In this proposal for a plan for harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and with an oral announcement by the Government that it, or that the Croatian state will fully comply with its legislation with European legislation by the end of 2009. The last government, at that rate, was on its way. It has been announced that the process could be completed in 2007. So this government admits it's two years late. Finally, here, also on behalf of the SDP club Mr. Tonino Picula has just pointed out the exact data for 2004 and 2005 as to how many laws marked P.Z.E. brought to this Croatian Assembly. In 2000 it was 33 laws, and it was planned 46. So the non-ambitious plan didn't come about for 2004. It happened identically for 2005. For this year, so exactly what we're discussing right now, and what we might be happy about, given what was going on, that is, it wasn't these last two years, 59 laws, 59 laws. Is that a lot, is that small? I'm sure with this pace, we should work harder. However, here today has been at this very first session of our Parliament, we have adopted the spring session, we have brought the agenda, and if we see how much the law is on the initiative of the parliamentary representatives, and how many governments are just against this adjustment initiative then we will see that it is a negligible number and that there is no way to achieve it this way, I would say as a whole, considering an unambitious plan for 2006. This, therefore, given that the agenda was adopted, that it was practical, we were already at the end of the first quarter. And for the first quarter, we only have nine laws, and not one yet, nor do we know if it's being prepared, but in this one, but in the agenda of this session that has 67 points, there's not one such proposal. Therefore, at the outset, we can conclude that we are late. As far as the second quarter is concerned, we have more laws. In the third quarter very little. But that's why we have everything in the fourth quarter. And it's impossible for this to happen so 2/3 of us to do it in the last quarter, and if we see about the content, so just the title of the bill, or the laws that we need to pass, so the title suggests the seriousness of the content and the necessity, and the severity not only of the seriousness, because all the proposals are serious and necessary, but... Which Croatia must meet. [[The speaker is not understood because of technical disturbances.]] It is then perfectly clear that this will not be so and that all these proposals, or plans, will not be achieved. However, as we all know well and do not need to repeat, lawmaking is another of the most painless operations that await us. The adjustment and what we have brought, how we live these laws, is one of the bigger problems. How much resources, therefore, require all reforms, and even when it is done, and most often, as the Government has realized, even though we do not think that this is the case, nor do I personally consider that any reform means cutting the rights, it certainly is not, but this government seems to understand that the reforms are therefore unpopular because they only mean the necessity of cutting existing rights. It's not like that, sometimes it's true, but it's not always the rule. Therefore, such reform laws require adequate resources. Our laws are not only carried out because of this and the inertness, both the state apparatus and the judicial system, but primarily because the government itself is guilty of not providing the funds. We do not provide funding for the law, and we see for these structural, or laws that will be passed and that must lead to structural changes they are very costing. Because all good things cost, they need to be predicted and provided. That's why we'll follow closely into the future. It wasn't unfortunately happening, so it's not just the pain of this government either. Thus, it is often the case that laws are passed which are said to predict or new bodies where no funds are provided. And then the laws don't apply and that's why they don't. What's also very important is that laws with P.Z.E. marking are passed. who aren't at all. Either they are to a very small extent, but then later these laws or certain provisions of them are interpreted in a way that we must do so in order to comply with European legislation. And there's often something else entirely hidden, our ground-floor home custom, and perhaps the shifts of certain persons in a particular place. Well, we don't find them anything for sin, so we do it by law, and then we hide behind this P.Z.E. mark. It's not allowed and it shouldn't, at least no more, happen, because I guess everything you've considered necessary has already been changed. However, here you see the second point of our agenda, which is to continue on this one, is just the debate on how to communicate, or how to make up a good strategy for informing the Croatian public. The best way to communicate with the Croatian public is to tell her what it is, not how to picture a thing and what it will look like in public. I don't think speakers, or speakers in certain ministries, should serve this, and this alone cannot contain a strategy for informing the Croatian public. But we can see here that no parliamentary representatives have been informed either, but this plan is already something that we should and should be able to communicate with the public, the government and the Parliament. So, if it is made public to the Croatian public that these laws will change, at least in five or something in three or two, one should say what is important and what is needed in the existing law to change the public to be prepared. It simply, our public knows that some plants must plant, vines, olives because it will not be possible when we become a full member of the European Union. So that's good, but that's how every thing should be made public in an accessible non-berocratic language which, and it would be very useful for people, the population, in general, our citizens, and those in power who will enforce the laws, and I especially say to those who conduct themselves, to be prepared for it. Here's just for example, what needs to be changed, it's a law, it's a new law, it's a law on free legal aid. It is very important, especially in the case of new laws, to take care of what is existing regulation and whether to change and to what extent to which the existing law is amended. Because the situation is going to happen that in this way we're going to pass two laws of the same rank that are going to solve the same, or a very similar legal problem. I'm making a specific note. With the Law on Free Legal Assistance, it is also necessary to amend the Law on Attorneyship which excludes such an option, here something that we are about to adopt. I therefore already warn that, when new laws are passed that need to be passed, existing laws concerning this matter, which regulate otherwise, adapt to this new law and amend it in that sense. Now what seems also important to me to point out is that this was not the case in the last year, that certain ministries, therefore, are sending very similar laws, i.e. they are not consistent with what I have already pointed out. But here you see, and this plan brings one illogicality, and I'd like to ask for an explanation. Here in the second quarter, we'll pass the Law of Playmaking and Reward Games. The Ministry of Finance is in charge. Then, at the end of the fourth quarter, we will also pass the Law on opening games of chance and prize games, and this time it is not the other ministry that proposes, so one mistake or illusion could be understood, so that one ministry did not know what another ministry was doing but so the Ministry of Finance would also re-enact the same law. I would ask for an explanation whether it's a first or a second reading, and I don't believe it's because there's no order in this. So it seems to me after all that the cobwebs were assessed because of what...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53786	Mrs. Anticevic, thank you very much. Next up is Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here's my colleague Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53787	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Madam Minister with Associates. We have before us a proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2006. I must begin by reminding here that the Government adopted a national programme for the accession of the European Union for 2006 to meet the representatives at session 3.1. As we know, the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, adopts a plan for harmonisation of legislation at the beginning of the year for each year. In the 2006 plan, much more ambitious tasks are being set in a more ambitious way, thus proposing the adoption of 59 laws in 2005 was 44. Of that, 35 are amendments and additions to existing laws and 24 new laws. Although the Law-Making Plan is passed by the Croatian Parliament for the purpose of implementing it, it is still necessary to ask the government why it did not follow the plan in the legislative procedure to send all those laws. What are the reasons that led to the Government’s proposal to adopt, for example, a voluntary change of plans? amending and supplementing a certain law instead of a whole law, or giving up the proposal of a specific legislative proposal. If there are legitimate reasons regarding the preparation and implementation of negotiations in certain parts of the legislation imposed by the European Union, and in connection with concrete legal projects, then we should know in our opinion that the Croatian Parliament that brings this should, however, inform it in detail and inform it accordingly. I think that the Croatian Peasant Party, which submitted amendments for 2005, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted those amendments and included them in the plan, was aimed at reaching a certain consensus. I think that it is for all of us when we talk about a specific plan, that it is a consensus, because if this consensus is not here in Parliament, then I am not sure that we will be able to discuss it very clearly in item 2 of the agenda, and that is what we should present to the citizens to accept certain things if we here in Parliament agree with the consensus that we accept something and, unfortunately, we give up. With the 2005 plan, it was planned to be adopted in the first quarter, and this new sea fishing law was passed not by a new law but by amendments and additions to the existing law. State aid in agriculture, fisheries and forestry has not been adopted. We have adopted two amendments and additions on agricultural land. We brought about water changes and additions at the end of 2005. We also brought about changes and additions on the water economy, and we did not discuss the Agricultural Chamber and this law was not passed. It should be mentioned here that the adoption of the Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Production in Tourism which has not been adopted, and its adoption as we see it, is not proposed in the 2006 plan, the question being clearly asked here which Parliament deserves the answer, why it does so. In the 2006 plan, the government is definitely giving up the proposed new legislative proposals in 2005 so I will repeat. The Agricultural Chamber Act is not planned for 2006. It shall be noted that its adoption is subject to the obligations laid down in Article 36. The agricultural law. The State aid law in agriculture and forestry is also not on track. The question arises as to what has happened significantly to give up this year for Croatian agriculture and the agricultural producer from such significant legal projects. It also gives up this year the proposal for full laws that were proposed last year, and amendments and additions have been adopted, thus proposing to amend and supplement the Water and Agricultural Land Act this year. The question is raised here in itself, what is this in the amendments to the Water Act, which we adopted in December 2005, was to be brought into line with the legal acquis of the European Union which we did not do and that, therefore, in the last quarter of this year, we are proposing another amendment and supplementing that law. The same applies to the Agricultural Land Act that we mentioned twice changed in 2005. We all know how long-term and several attempts were made by the Money Act, which also wore the label "P.Z.E." And I have to say, it's not listed why that need is definitely needed right now this year. What may cause us one big doubt and why I state all of this, which is what listed the Law on concessions among the 2006 priorities. If the Law on concessions will again take place now and in some way amend the laws passed, then I must say that we in Croatia are certainly going to strongly oppose it. This certainly refers to all the principles that we have talked about before, and here, as an example, that all things are not by chance mentioned by the prime minister the other day, who mentioned that we would give state land in concession. Well, most likely, if that is the reason for the amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land and that all agricultural land will go to concessions, I don't think it's just going to be easy in this House and not just from the HSS, but I believe from other parties. Because the priority of the Agricultural Land Act was for the state agricultural land to come to the family peasant economies, to round them up, to prepare them for the European Union, to be more ready for the market. And this would be unfortunately something else entirely. All of this so far has contributed to the fact that the Croatian Parliament must know why it is not implementing the act it brings. Or why it's changing by passing different laws. That is, giving up on those who are set out in that plan. It would therefore be good for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the plan for last year on the legislative procedure of the legislative harmonisation plan for the current year. Otherwise, I don't think it makes any sense for the Croatian Parliament to bring in an act. If it's just a matter of operationality, then let the government bring it along as well as a national programme. If the Croatian Parliament brings an act here, then we must know exactly, at least that part of which is why certain parts of the plan have not been adopted. By believing that the minister who listens very carefully here, here, all the time, and I believe that with her associates, she will answer these questions, I believe in the common interest. Because point 2 is something that we will all discuss together and in some way try to reach consensus in the national interest, because that is the only way in which this whole process of adaptation and accession to the European Union can be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53788	I thank my colleague Pankretic. The next one is Madam Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go, Comrade Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53789	Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, Ms. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. That's enough already in this debate, but I think, personally, I want to say about five different topics very briefly. This plan covers 59 proposals to adopt 59 laws in line with the European Union. In fact, it seems to me that there are fewer, that there are 57 of them, because some are completely unjustly repeated. Reflecting on how to assess the plan, how to give an assessment of the plan, on the one hand, the conclusion is that it is very easy. Because we simply look at the comparative data as it was in 2003, 4 and 2005 then we conclude that this plan is somewhat poor and somewhat unambitious. Given that, for example, in 2003, the plan was designed and implemented to amend 80 laws, 2004. 33, 2005. 29. On the other hand, it is difficult to give such an assessment because we simply do not know what needs to be done in this area of harmonisation of legislation. Although it should be said that this process of harmonisation of legislation is not fixed. It will be a continuous process and when we are a member of the European Union, the regulations will simply be amended. But from year to year, we get partial documents and annual programs, and we never really know what happened, which of them didn't happen, and where it's going globally together. For example, the Tourism Committee also noted in its report that some of the laws foreseen for adoption in the first quarter of 2005 were simply not passed. And I think this debate would be a useful report for years to come. Secondly, as some colleagues in the debate, I would like to warn of an ever-expanded phenomenon which I would call an abuse of Europe's argument when you have no better argument, which is primarily, as the legislative process refers to, concerns the laws, i.e. those laws to which the P.Z.E. seal here, which should mean that these are laws that are adopted with the intention to comply with European Union regulations, that they are European laws. If we look at the reports of our Infodox service, we passed 62 laws last year, so in 2005, that marked P.Z.E. There were 29 of them under the 2005 legislative harmonisation plan. Now I don't know if we've been doing better, so past the plan, whether the plan was bad or if the plan was simply unnecessary or if it was some kind of formality. Or, as I think, and I know from how these discussions were conducted here, on many or some of the laws were stamped just to say that we have to do it for Europe, and then no one questioned whether a law should be passed or not. And about that, every law that has that label "P.Z.E." which should mean that compliance with the European Union rules is at the end of a declaration of conformity and a comparative demonstration of the Directives and reasons for compliance and non-compliance. And then very often we have a law that has a sign that it's harmonised, that we bring it in for harmony, and then finally we see that it's actually about harmonising one provision, that most of them are not harmonised or that they're duly justified, explained reasons for non-compliance or only partial compliance. To me, I have to admit, which I'm mostly reading these documents is a very common source of laughter, so I ask that when you make such statements and those comments are still a little bit more serious. Furthermore, I am sorry that here, although the debate is being held here, but formally in the Croatian Parliament at the debate is not the national accession programme itself for 2006 but we are only discussing the supplement which concerns the legislative harmonisation plan, and I find it particularly important that we discuss these programmes too, and at this point for at least three reasons. First, we will start now on certain chapters where the screening is finished, we will start to define negotiating positions, and in the National Programme itself, most of the policy solutions have been defined, I do not know how to translate it into Croatian, but also strategic solutions, but also individual solutions to individual specific problems. And the third reason why I think it would be important to discuss it here is the issue of law enforcement, i.e. the implementation of individual solutions in the system itself. Otherwise, the easiest thing to do is vote the law, it's usually the least of the problems. Anything else that is much more important and much more problematic, we are not discussing it and we actually have very little or no information about it. And finally, thinking about this process of approaching the European Union and all that is happening, I ran into a text from an anonymous blogger who wrote about it that by the beginning of the negotiations of the European Union, Europe was protecting us, and now we have to start protecting ourselves. It looks like a jump, like a very fun thing, but it seems to me that it points to both seriousness and responsibility. In view of the experiences, and primarily in the screening that concerned the areas of education and science where I dare say that I have some information and that I know something, it seems to me that even some of the negotiating teams themselves are famous things because it was published in the media are made up of not entirely all competent people, that there are people who do not read English or some other foreign languages, now we are fortunately only at the beginning of it, in fact the real negotiations haven't even started and I think we still have time to take this job seriously and to correct maybe some irregularities that have been because I don't think we can afford luxury to play, that we are at the top... We are risking such an important process as joining the European Union, because we do not join the European Union because of this European Union which is more or less important whether Croatia is inside or not, and if it is important and wants us to join, but I think it is much more important for us and for our structural reforms and that we cannot go over certain things lightly and in the negotiations themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53790	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53791	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the distinguished colleague Lugaric has said that the real negotiations with the European Union have not even begun. The real negotiations have certainly begun and they are in the right century.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53792	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53793	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. When I applied for a debate on this item of the agenda, I was actually thinking yesterday about the purpose of our debate on something called the proposed plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2006, that is, this table in which 59 is numbered, or if one surplus is put in place, then 58 laws that are scheduled to be discussed in this year, and then we sometimes seem to be discussing whether we are going to work this much or we want to work less or we want to do more when it comes to the laws to be amended, to adopt for the first time, to align with the acquis of the European Union. In doing so, of course, I will repeat what some of my predecessors have already said that we have already passed a series of laws over the past few years, changed a few times. When I think about the question of the dynamics of law making, then I think about it this way, if number 58 is enough, if it's a real number, if it's more necessary, if I don't know in 2003 then we've brought it to me almost the most, somewhere 80 laws. Is it supposed to be less, so is this plan too ambitious? The more we are actually aware of it, and it seems to me that it is somewhere and in all the other materials and stated that actually this plan is subject to change, and we now know in advance that perhaps one part of this is not going to be adopted, or that it will not come up for debate, and then perhaps some others will come up, and then there is probably a change in numbers as it was in the plan for the past year, and even here, some colleagues and colleagues have been talking about how much we actually passed such laws last year. It may bother me personally that what seems to me in this House is that we have never actually received a report from the government in these last few years, in fact a full report on the implementation of the National Programme that we bring in every year, especially together with a proposal for a coordination plan, and I have to say, it's actually very difficult to talk about these laws, about this bill, and not to touch the National Programme adopted by the Government in early January of this year, and it's not really meant for this programme itself to be discussed, that this Parliament is discussing its observations, but it's absolutely impossible to refer to some things in it. As far as the plan is concerned, I think that one colleague has already said before me and I ask the question of these 58 laws, draft laws, amendments and additions, new laws, etc. more than half of 32, or 33, are scheduled to be in the last quarter of this year. So the gross of these laws is scheduled for the last three months, so it's about 10, 11, 12 months of this year, so I'm wondering if we're going to do it at all, and it's also the fact that at least in this current agenda proposal that we all know is subject to change and that it's likely to be complemented, I'm really wondering if it's going to be complemented in this first quarter and with all the nine laws that are foreseen? I have something to say about this National Programme of the Republic of Croatia. Given that I read at least in one section which I find particularly interesting and the programme itself, but also the European Commission Report of November of last year concerning certain areas. And so, regardless of what we as a Parliament can't influence what's in the government domain and what it's adopted, but here I'm going to take that area of gender equality. By the way, I wanted to talk about it yesterday at the board meeting, but because of the lack of quorum sessions, it wasn't held. So, we practically when I was talking about that we don't actually have reports about what's being achieved by what we might have written down, or the government, for example, in 2005, someone should take care of what is written in these individual chapters, which we and our priorities are for certain years. Because when we compare it to the year before then we see that one part is repeated and that part is repeated when it comes to gender equality and we have been repeating for two years that it is necessary to bring the national legislation in line with the Law on Gender Equality that we were obliged to bring into line by half of 2004. But we keep saying it year after year. Or, for 2005, one of the priorities in gender equality was strengthening women's role and political participation, primarily in local elections. There's no priority this year. But I'm wondering if anyone in any report wrote that out of that assignment, that priority last year was nothing done. We almost took a step back from the 2001 local elections. Or, for this year, one of the priorities is the development of gender segregated statistical indicators and publication of statistics. I hope that this is in line with this, and I remind the government in fact that there was no Parliament that we would not have any birth statistics or any amendments that we have given to statistics, so I hope that the European Commission will be left with no statistics on gender in the coming years. Not to say that in the field of gender equality when it comes to employment, when it comes to the position of women and men in the labour market, when it comes to employment difficulties, there is absolutely no point in this national programme if we leave out the part that mentions the National Employment Action Plan that the government gave up last year. So somewhere, it seems to me that we're in some sort of a breakup and sometimes we're avoiding some issues that might be painful. So in the report of the European Commission when it comes to the position of a woman, the achievement of equal opportunities for women and men is one of the essential remarks but nobody wants to talk about it because we have warned here in this Croatian Assembly is a question of maternity benefits, it is a question of the duration of maternity leave. This is one topic that awaits us, and we will have to comply in that part with the acquis of the European Union, but until it is, we will continue to popularise it, of course, or declare one of the essential measures of population policy. And finally, all of what I was talking about and what the predecessors were talking about. This path towards the European Union, the adjustment process, etc. And I've pointed out that here on many occasions about the different laws I've been discussing, they won't be without a reform of the state administration. And in that part so far, we haven't done anything yet. This is seen clearly in the end line from the European Commission's report. They must have given themselves the right to say this one sentence. Overall, the issue of state administration reform does not appear to be a priority for the current government. Then I wonder who's gonna do all the other reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53794	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53795	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors Minister! You see, first of all, I have a question about the seriousness of this document. The seriousness of the document is questionable to me and I'm going to try to explain the reasons for this skepticism of my own. You see, last year when we adopted the same document for 2005 then the law was also numbered and for the fourth quarter of 2005, it was said that the Law on Croatian Radio Television must be changed. And there was an explanation there. This is what the European Union is asking for, the law must be harmonised. And it's not, we all know it's not. You know it's not. None of us asked because he had no reason to look. It was one of the laws and then it was completely consistent and we all knew it. And yet it was listed for the fourth quarter as a law to be harmonised. And the fact that he's going to change and that he's going to coordinate has been said all last year. There was talk until this famous debate, this scandal that took place in the Parliament, to this debate about HRT. When the entire public and journalistic profession stood up and threatened to inform international institutions about what is actually being prepared with Croatian Radio Television, so when the reactions came and the international reaction that would not be allowed then the HRT Act fell out of the harmonisation programme and plan. So he hasn't changed, he's not on the change list, and that makes perfect sense. It's logical that he's not here because they'd coordinate something that's consistent. What is harmonised cannot be further coordinated. What's straight can't be treated because it's already flat. Now I wonder how he actually got on the list last year. Isn't that the alignment of one government apology to change laws he wants to amend for some other reason. It's the right of the government to propose an amendment to the law, no one's doubting it. The government may have some political reasons for wanting to amend some laws. These reasons can be acceptable to us, they can be unacceptable to us. Those reasons can be smart, they can be stupid, they can be justified, they can be unwarranted, anyway, but it's government law. But it is not the right of the Government to deceive the Parliament, so we are arguing these laws are being sent to the procedure because this needs to be coordinated, because that is what the European Union is asking to bring it into line and that is not the case. It's not like that. No one asks, no one needs to coordinate them, but it's just one excuse to give the government a little bit better interest in changing the laws. Another thing that doesn't make sense to me and I'm saying that this is a little bit unseriously prepared or sent to Parliament, look, we're used to getting some sort of explanation. Some interpretations of the legal proposals. In any other material that comes to Parliament, in the report, those who send their reports to the Assembly and we here see under point 2 and then again under point 53, we have the same law. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act. So we're going to change that law in the first quarter, so we're going to change it again and coordinate it in the fourth quarter. So we also have the Law of Playmaking for Happiness and Reward Games. We're going to change him in the second quarter, so we're going to change him like that again in the fourth quarter. And if no one had explained to us here, why would they do that? Why are we doing this twice the same... Can't that be prepared? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, maybe you can't. Maybe there's a logical explanation. There is. But it would have been nice if you'd written it here. It would be nice to know that. Why is it not possible to enter preparations at once? Or why isn't this, if the law needs to be changed? So why don't we leave the ones we're going to change twice for the last quarter? So now you're keeping these negotiating teams in one chapter when they're discussing what these remarks are and you put it in, and then you keep it up to the last quarter until they come up negotiations on another chapter because I know that some laws concern different chapters, so when they negotiate then they come to the Parliament nicely, you come to the Parliament with changes to the laws that will be complete. And then it'll be explained because this is so little you know and a little humiliating for the Parliament. We're going to change the law in the first quarter, and we don't know yet. And we will accept the amendments to the law. And we don't know yet why and in which segment we're going to have to change it again in the fourth quarter? So that's not just what happens with the laws we've already discussed and adopted so now they're coming back to us again, but we're even planning to discuss it a few times. If it is in any way possible to avoid it, it would be good to avoid it because of the dignity of the government, yourself, you as ministers. For the dignity of this Parliament and the dignity of our entire country, because we must all keep this dignity together. You and me both. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53796	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53797	Thank you very much. Mr. MP called the democratic debate in the Croatian Parliament a scandal. This is an incorrect allegation because a representative in the Croatian Parliament at least in this country has the right to express his opinion. And what Mr. Stazic regrets about those times when it was different he has no right to insult us. If something was a scandal, it was the last session before the election when you passed the HRT Act with the intention of occupying it for four years as you succeeded.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53798	And Kronoslav Markovanovic, a respected representative, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53799	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, Stazic, who incorrectly stated that harmonising is only a law, only an excuse for changing the law. However, all the new members of the European Union have also worked to adapt the law. And even the laws on national television that seem to have become your phobia due to your acquired privileges.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53800	Five-minute debate of the IDS Representatives Club. Honorable representative Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53801	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2006, Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in 2006 is, in our opinion, part of the communication strategy for informing the Republic of Croatia or its public about the European Union and preparations for membership. And it specifically refers to the Croatian Parliament. I am pleased that the legislative measures are shown this quarterly and I hope that we in the Croatian Parliament will succeed in doing this ambitious plan and all these legislative proposals regardless of how realistic the number of 59 laws is that they are really extensive material. However, if we are to be ready to take over the way of life and the standards of the European Union, then we must try to adopt the proposed legislation as soon as possible. I don't want to say that in today's debate there have been many constructive criticisms on this plan that should certainly be discussed and brought to their attention. But I am convinced that in the past decade more attention has been paid to what we of the Istrian Democratic Assembly have said, I am sure that this proposal would be much smaller today. Finally, the IDS Club will support this Proposal for a harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2006 and this Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53802	Thank you. And the final review by Foreign and European Integration Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53803	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Here I'm going to really try to answer all of these remarks that we heard here today. I thank you first of all for the constructive debate and constructive remarks because this is indeed for all of us the educational process that we are going through, and in which we are inevitably making mistakes, however, always in the best intention of making the process as fast as possible and as effective as possible. Starting with the application of the Club, the remarks made by the HSS and Mr Pankretić Club when it comes to concrete laws which were part of the HSS amendment to last year's National Programme. I would therefore specifically refer to the adoption of the Water Law, the Water Economy Financing Act. The tourism activity law was transferred for 2006. Those laws, the laws that go back to the procedure you instructed, such as the Law on Agricultural Land and the Water Act, go because of the Law on concessions. Due to the necessary changes that need to be reintroduced, and other laws such as the Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Production for Tourism purposes, the Agricultural Chamber Act is not adopted as part of the alignment with the acquis because there is no legal gain that would be a direct link. Therefore, these laws can be passed within the framework of agricultural policy, but not within the framework of the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis. When it comes to counties, the participation of counties of the PGS Club of Representatives in regional programmes I must say that now that it is a regional division in Croatia, it will not be signed by the European Commission, it is a matter of the internal structure of the Republic of Croatia. Countys already participate in Internet programmes of regional cross-border and trans-regional cooperation. So, obviously, it is possible that they work as such, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration is funding the work of county councils for European integration. My personal opinion and the opinion of the ministry is that local administration and self-government should be upgraded in this regard and we are ready to really help local administration and self-government units to team up when it comes to the affairs of the European integration area of the exploitation of pre-accession funds and everything else. Whether legislative activity is enough or not, I initially said that MPPU is a living document that is changing, will change depending on it, this year in particular, depending on the download in individual chapters. I must say that indeed a few years ago it was impossible to predict how much Croatia will have to pass laws in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union. We can compare ourselves to other countries, but what will actually be possible at the end of this year when the screening process is completed. It should be according to the dynamics that are very intense and for which we have received great commendation from the European Commission, here is the comment for Mrs Lugaric. When it comes to screening specifically on science and education the comments of the European Commission are extremely good, that the team has been very well prepared, that a great job has been done and I hope that we will indeed open this chapter to negotiations during the Austrian Presidency and that it will soon be completed. So when the screening is done by the end of this year, then we'll really be able to safely tell how quiet it is, how much harmonisation we have left. And there is a comment, a response to the remarks of the respected representative Kovacevic, who said that we should start negotiations first and then align. This is absolutely impossible, given that the basis for screening is, in fact, the harmonised Croatian legislation that compares itself with the acquis of the European Union and then after the end of screening in certain chapters, we can therefore determine what we have done so far, which we can do by the indicative date of entry into membership, which we will look for transitional periods, which is why we will be the subject of negotiations because we are assessing that date of membership we cannot do so, either because of administrative capacity, whether because of financial resources or the like. So far, the European Commission is very good at assessing the preparations so far. I must say that the number of laws and sublegal acts varies and that we are in the implementation phase. Because the point is not in the number of laws passed, but in their implementation, in their implementation. And normally, when it comes to negotiations on when we are going to conclude negotiations, it is not only up to Croatia, but, as we have convinced ourselves, also on the European Union's readiness to run the process smoothly without delay, and our intention is to make maximum efforts on our part, indeed there are no stagnations and lagging behind. When it comes to laws going several times to harmonisation, it is indeed true. I'd like to remind you that this has happened before. Here, let me look back at what Mr. Stazic was saying. It is true that there is once again the Law on Playmaking and Reward Games. It shall be listed twice this year because it is initially referred to in order to comply with Article 12. The Treaty on European Communities, which provides for the principle of non-discrimination. And then in the second part of the year there's a harmonisation of the concession law that depends on the adoption of 16 laws, and that fourth quarter is actually so crowded, there's so much law in the fourth quarter, because 12, 16 laws depend on the concession law. Among other things, mentioning the Law on Playmaking, the Law on Waters, the Law on Telecommunications, public roads, free zones, the municipal economy, agricultural land, hunting, railways, etc. And the observation is, in fact, why the laws come back when they have to reconciling. If we were to follow that logic, unfortunately, we would have done nothing so far because Acguis is changing and that because of the changes in the acquis, we have to make new changes, new adjustments to the law. That, also when changes are being made, and for the second time this year, you have budgets that are listed how much harmonisation and implementation of all obligations will actually cost us during this three-year period because of the fact that we must also take care of the adjustments of the private sector that must be adapted to legislation. So, about all of these factors. Sometimes it's not possible to fully comply with the law. And like I said, Acguis is changing, so here we are changing or we're going to have to change the laws that were passed in 2000, 2001, 2002 or 2003. They return to the process and public procurement and free zones, investment funds, therefore because of various needs. It is a process that is as pointed out by Mrs Lugaric, who will continue after membership. So, the adjustment itself actually when it comes to... The harmonisation of legislation will continue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it really necessary for Croatia to make such precise legislative plans before screening is made? It's a question of the HSP's Club of Representatives. I have already responded that the screening actually compares what has already been harmonised and that further harmonisation plans are being made. Protection of national interests, respected representative Kovacevic, is always in the first place, and I spoke about the starting points for MPPU in my opening statement and I don't think I need to repeat it. I believe this is a truly ambitious plan and the government will do everything possible to achieve all its obligations. It is also possible for the Croatian Parliament to implement this legislative plan. The explanation of why laws are passed is contained on a thousand 33 pages of the National Programme, which is also available to the public on our website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Also in printed form anyone can get it. And every new National Plan is actually a report on the implementation of the previous one. This must also be taken into account and the fact is that the Commission's report on the progress made on an annual basis. I also report on the implementation of the National Plan, and I repeat that the report adopted in November last year on what Croatia did from the moment of AVIA's entry to the end of the 9th month last year is positive, that it is normally pointing to some gaps and elements that need to be fixed, but if it were not then we would already be ready for membership and the Commission's report is just one of the basic foundations and starting points as well as plans, or European partnership starting for the national plan. Finally, when it comes to the Law on the Croatian Truth for the sake of the respected Mr. Stazić, I must correct you, i.e. reminding you that the Law on HRT was part of the legislative harmonisation plan as early as 2004, which began in September 2003, so your government put it initially on the legislative alignment list. He was in the plan for 2004 at the time there were no objections to the intention of harmonising the HRT Act. The fact is that last year, indeed, in Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament, you objected to it. I would not call it a scandal, given that we have conducted a very democratic debate, that we have sat together with the representatives of the OSCE, the European Commission, that Mr Mimica was present by the SDP and that we have discussed the issue of the HRT Act whether it is necessary to take it down or it will continue to be harmonised. It was then concluded that for 2005 it would be transferred to the fourth quarter and that it would then see if further harmonisation was needed after the screening was completed. The OSCE then had objections to the HRT Act and we will, when it comes to the law, continue to discuss with both the Council of Europe and the OSCE and the European Commission and you with the SDP and all others and simply end the screening, see if further changes are needed and then this law can eventually be re-scheduled in the coordination list. However, there was no intention of manipulation, but indeed this law was introduced because of the International Community’s observations, i.e. in particular the OSCE on the need for further harmonisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53804	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53805	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I am correcting the imprecise statement by the Minister that these certain obligations have been made, which were correctly stated in the amendment which was given and which the Government has accepted. Unfortunately, they haven't been executed, and that's also evident from this part of it. We will again submit that amendment, because it is not only a matter of implementing agricultural policy but it is a matter I would say to implement the overall policy and adaptation in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53806	Second Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53807	Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct Madam Secretary, so I'm going to say in part the incorrect assumption that you said. I agree with you that the European Commission's report is basically positive as regards Croatia, but I have limited myself to some parts especially in this part of the area of gender equality, not to be particularly critical, but to simply warn that in one area of gender equality, the same things are repeated year after year, it seems to me that whoever is carrying this area or does not know enough about it or is doing it superficially, because the European Commission's report on gender equality is literally saying "in the area of gender equality, no significant development has happened". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53808	And the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53809	It is incorrect that I called your conversations with the International Community on the HRT Act scandalous. That didn't occur to me. Those conversations were probably justified and that's why the law must have fallen off this list because they were argued. I called the scandalous parliamentary debate on the HRT's work report, so I'm not the only one who called it that, which is what all analysts called it, all the journalists in all the media called it scandalous because of its inappropriate primitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53810	I'm concluding a debate on this point. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we get involved. Let's see the quorum. Please score, score. 81 for now. We have a quorum. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[And until he gets here, I'll vote for him.]] Okay. Then you'll have another voting partner. We're going to the vote. Proposal for a Plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2006 – Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union – 2006. The amendment was filed by the HSS Representatives' Club. I ask State Secretary Marija Pejcinović Buric to show himself on the proposal for an amendment to the HSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53812	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Unfortunately, we cannot accept this amendment by the Croatian Peasant Party because the two proposed laws that are on the list have no foothold in the legal property of the European Union. So, since the plan is only passed for those laws that can be aligned with the acquis, we don't see the possibility of including it in this list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53813	On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53814	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so I have to say that this explanation is not acceptable to me for the simple reason that the same amendment was accepted on behalf of the government last year, so now I don't understand that with such an explanation it is possible. I don't know what's changed. At least there's something else to say that's changed. These amendments have been clearly tabled for reasons to improve as far as legislation concerning the European Union is concerned. We think these laws are necessary for harmonisation. We don't understand why we didn't get an explanation for what didn't happen last year, because I looked forward to it here when we discussed it. It doesn't fit this year and unfortunately I'm asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53815	Thank you. Please vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 24th Amendment, 5 abstentions, 69 against. I am now voting on the proposal for a coordination plan. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. What's the score? With 92 votes for and 8 abstentions adopted Plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, etc. etc. Let's go to the next three. The proposal for a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and preparations for membership was submitted by the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, information, information and media and European integration. You received the reports at the session. I ask Minister Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53817	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, it is my special honor and pleasure to present to you at today's session of the Croatian Parliament the proposal for a new communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and the preparations for membership, and to thank this House in particular for its valuable contribution to its preparation. The need for a new communication strategy stems from the dynamics of the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union since the start of membership negotiations and the intensification of the accession phase of this process. This increases the need as well as our obligation to timely inform citizens and communicate with citizens on the course of negotiations and on all aspects of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in order to provide our citizens with an objective and realistic picture of the European Union and its membership. Because successful accession to the European Union can only be achieved if the process of preparation for accession enjoys a high degree of understanding and support for Croatian citizens. Moreover, according to the research carried out by the public change that we are seeking to gain as much insight into the information needs of our citizens as possible, it is also necessary to step up this activity and especially through an enhanced sectoral approach. It is also necessary to explain as much as possible the adjustments that Croatia still needs to make on the road to membership in the Union, its costs, as well as the advantages for citizens to vote in a referendum on accession in the near future to decide on the basis of objective and reasoned information. Therefore, in October 2005, the Croatian Parliament, together with the Resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, also concluded that it is tasking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer the Croatian Parliament to the adoption of a comprehensive communication strategy of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of familiarising citizens with the advantages and disadvantages of membership in the European Union with the dynamics of negotiations and the results achieved. The Government of the Republic of Croatia formally tasked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration to develop a new communication strategy in line with the needs of the Croatian public and the current stages of the integration process, with the aim of increasing the scope and quality of information for citizens on European topics. The preparation of a new communication strategy that lasted during 2005 was attended by participants and partners in the communication process. The proposal for the text of the strategy was made within the NVPI with the help of a foreign consultant, public relations expert and information. The new strategy was also the topic of the first meeting of the National Forum on Accession of the European Union, which was attended by numerous Croatian experts in the field of information and communication, as well as representatives of civil society, academic community and religious communities. Opinion on the draft communication strategy was given by all ministries, the main negotiator's office and the government's public relations office. Two discussions with marketing experts and public relations agencies, representatives of the parliamentary committees, representatives of the media and the academic community, religious representatives were organised as well as representatives of the non-governmental sector as well as a delegation from the European Commission in Zagreb. In doing so, the representatives of the Agency for Public Relations also offered free assistance in implementing the communication strategy. After the end of this procedure, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the text of the proposal for a communication strategy at a session held on 9 December 2005 and sent it to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. The procedure in this House was just yesterday followed by a fruitful discussion on the communication strategy within the Croatian Parliament Committee which represents another important contribution to the process, not only to adopt this strategy, but also to its more successful future application. The new communication strategy defines the objectives of information, approach, language and tone, target groups, participants and communication partners, and means and means of information. The aim is to raise the level and quality of information, but also to discuss EU accession, particularly within the National Forum on EU Accession. Satisfying the need for information and fostering interest in them, openness and transparency in information, while removing unfounded and wrong stereotypes on issues related to the integration process. The entire public of the Republic of Croatia is targeted by a group of this strategy as the government's intention is to directly reach all parts of Croatian society. However, special attention is focused on the so-called multipliers, i.e. public changers, such as state officials and parliamentary representatives, media, economic operators, NGOs and the civil sector, the academic community, religious communities and dignitaries, the bodies of local administrations and self-government and local associations. Then, to young people as future citizens of the European Union, and groups sensitive to changes such as rural populations and farmers, the population of areas of special public care and pensioners. The strategy also provides for participation and partnership in the process of communication between many bodies, organisations and individuals, resolution ministries, European Commission delegations in the Republic of Croatia, the media, economic sector entities, NGOs and civil society, regional and local authorities and self-government, academic community, religious communities, libraries. The strategy also extends the scope and types of labour used in communication with citizens. The already existing National Forum on Access to the European Union, Conferences and Press Briefings, Public Change Research, Printed and Electronic Publications, Websites, Euroinfo Points, European Week events, etc., are complemented by the network of information coordinators on the European Union in the resolution ministries as a form of an intensive sectoral approach. By increasing public research towards sectors and target groups, enhanced co-operation with national and local media, enhanced co-operation with civil society, enhanced co-operation with religious communities. In addition to the financial resources provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the communication strategy in 2006, financial resources will also be provided through bilateral assistance from the Member States of the European Union and support from the European Commission delegation in Zagreb as well as from European Commission funds. Cooperation with partner organisations, e.g. the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Association of Employers and others will also be established in 2006. And the private sector in the implementation of individual projects envisaged by the activity plan in 2006, which will provide additional funding for its implementation. Some marketing agencies also offered their free services for the implementation of the activity plan in 2006. Let me finally thank the Croatian Parliament once again for an important contribution to the preparation and development of the communication strategy, and for the ongoing and future fruitful debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53818	Thank you very much. The committees? On behalf of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Vice-President of the Committee, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53819	The Committee on Information, Information and Media considered at its 22nd session as the parent committee a report on a proposal for a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and preparations for membership. In his opening statement, the proposaler's representative reminded the committee that the first communication strategy for informing the Croatian public on the approximation of the European Union was adopted in 2001. The proposal for this communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and the preparations for membership of the Government of the Republic of Croatia set strategic information on the accession process to the European Union in line with the conclusion of the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament of 17 October. The Committee's discussion notes that the proposal for a communication strategy has been generally explained here that this is a strategy detailed in the annual work programmes with financial plans adopted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Furthermore, a question has been asked how the government can communicate with private media. It has been answered that there is an interest in these issues in all the media, especially when negotiations are launched. When asked whether the content side is sufficiently highlighted and what we must give up, and which are the negative consequences of integration processes, it is said that the approach to the communication strategy should be based on openness, transparency and the provision of timely, accurate and relevant information. This also mentions among the objectives of government communication on the European Union the emphasis of responsibilities and obligations that come with the advantages of membership and the reduction of unrealistic expectations. Where media should play a big role, especially public television. The Committee is further suggested that a special task should be given to the Internet, which could be used in addition to passively to pro-active information from target groups. Since one of the target groups is journalists and editors, it would also be necessary to go to the systematic education of journalists, and to create for them thematic manuals to facilitate their success in this area. The committee members in the debate asked whether there is a database in the European Union, which is responsible for the fact that it exists in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and that each citizen can ask a question about the European Union and has the right to receive an answer. After the debate was held, the parent board decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion, supporting the adoption of a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and the preparations for membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53820	Thank you. Committee on European Integration, Constitution, Rules of Procedure, political system. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. SDP MPs' club, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53821	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club would support the Communication Strategy with the European Union if we had obtained this Strategy, but the SDP Club cannot support a document that is pretentiously called the Communication Strategy for Information to the Croatian public on the European Union and preparations for membership. We believe that this is neither a substance nor a form of strategy nor a response to this document to the requirement to be a communication strategy. Since this document is addressed to the Assembly by the will of the ruling general, it will certainly be accepted, but we are afraid that by any chance this document has been sent as a seminar work to a university to ask the professor to be seriously completed. In the very name of the document we have a kind of tauotology because information or dissemination of information is just one small part of communication. In fact, today's communication science says that communication is defined as a two-way symmetric interactive signal flow or information. Information or discrimination is only one small, small part of communication or if we take it as a whole to be understood as communication then it is one kind of communication, or communication in one period of 30 or 40 years ago. The problem with this document is it doesn't show us where we're going, so we don't have any established indicators of where we're going, what the attitudes of Croatian citizens are today. About this strategy is defined in a way if you don't know where you need to go every time you go there and take you. If a strategy were made, that is, when a strategy was announced at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we believed that we would really get all relevant indicators about the impact of the present or former strategy, so because this is a new strategy, obviously, that one strategy existed, that it was being implemented and we are very interested in what its impact is. We are very interested in what today's views of Croatian citizens are on all relevant issues regarding the European Union, on all issues of negotiations and on all issues relating to the adjustment process, because only if we know where we are going then we can know what our goal is, we know where we need to come and we can discuss which way we should go. Unfortunately, we have a situation today, so at this point there is simply no communication between those who are the owners of the government in the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, this was seen in one banal example, and it was a recent screening when our negotiators said that there were talks at that meeting that we would no longer be able to carry out the "bought Croatian" action and the perception of an average Croatian citizen was that so will we also be banned. What was the response of those who were to communicate with Croatian citizens? It was silence. So Croatia's citizens today have no answer to whether the action "let's buy Croatian" will still be possible, and if it doesn't, what are the reasons why it won't go and if it won't be possible to replace this action of supporting therefore supporting domestic jobs and buying quality Croatian products. In addition, we have recently been upset about whether the European Union will close taverns and cellars. So do we want a rebellion if the European Union shuts down our taverns and cellars? We've got another almost panic appeal on which the administration and the authorities are silent. We have no answer to that, and a grain of doubt has been sown among citizens that it is indeed possible that it will be the ultimate result of negotiations and accession and accession to the European Union. Will the owners of the cellar and the tavern vote to join the European Union? Will they go to the referendum and give their positive voice unless we give them an answer to what happens to their taverns and basements? We still have no answer to what is with cheese and cream, and that answer does not offer us this communication strategy either. So let us not look at what we know about the European Union or what they know above the average informed and educated citizens of Croatia, we must watch what those who need to go to the referendum know and whose voice we expect to get on the way to support the European Union. If we do not have an answer to such banal issues as cheese and cream, do we have an answer to far more complex questions throughout this negotiation process in many chapters, in many laws, in much adjustments to the European acquis. We have now heard that we do not even know how many laws, to what extent and what content we will need to coordinate on this process until we enter the European Union, so neither we as legislators in Croatia, let alone citizens. The second major problem of this Strategy is that I don't think it's a defined goal. The objective of this Strategy should, in my view, be to vote, after the SDP, for well-informed citizens, citizens who fully understand the advantages and disadvantages of access to the European Union to join the European Union, because the objective of this Strategy cannot be to inform citizens because they are not going to be tested. They will not join the test of knowledge, they will simply join the referendum, and the referendum expects citizens to support Croatia's entry into the European Union unless it really is our goal. If we aim to ensure that citizens only know in the European Union, then we do not really have common goals. Here, the strategy cites the general communication purpose and objectives that it is the creation of the widest and most fundamental understanding of all citizens and that is defined by imperatives. It is said the Croatian public must, the Croatian public should, the Croatian public should. It's not a communication strategy. I was really surprised when you said it went through the expert debate because I am now going to say several professional remarks of really crafty remarks, terminology remarks on this strategy and I am really surprised that the marketing and PR agencies discussed it and did not even put such banal remarks on this strategy. For example, it's unknown in communicating a term to remove something. Barriers can be removed but attitudes cannot be removed. It says here they'll remove the stereotypes. So it's something that simple communication doesn't know. If we have stereotypes, if we want to correct the attitudes of citizens of public change then there are communication techniques but we can't remove them either by surgical procedure, by bagger, or by some kind of communication message. It's, for example, a nonsens that appears here. Furthermore, we also have a serious observation in target groups. The target group cannot be a whole population. The entire population is a general target group but if we are talking about target groups then it was necessary to fully elaborate on what segments of the Croatian society or citizens of the Republic of Croatia we will approach with completely specific messages, with completely specific channels, with completely specific techniques or communication to achieve the goal. I think a strategy that says that we will approach communication or inform the entire population with general messages will simply be a waste of resources, both time and money. Also, an entirely unknown term is the drivers of public change. If at the same time you were referring to the public... Then it's not the ones who start public change because public change can't be started. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They can move citizens, they can run some other things and public change is shaped. So they define and influence the formation of attitudes. Therefore, this professional term should also be aligned with what communication or communication science is saying today. Equally, I think that we should fully segment the public that we cannot talk about the Croatian public but that we must talk about the citizens of Croatia, that we must fully recognise all those public, so all segments that need to be fully specific. Furthermore, information and procedures, for example, should be called communication channels and techniques, and should indeed be seen here how to achieve quality content in all media. So, not only here as it particularly stands out on Croatian television that will be offered to everyone for reproduction, for broadcasting, for dissemination, and thus really allow to get to know as well as possible what is happening. But except that there really are assumptions here for the dissemination of information the main lack of this strategy is that it is completely one-way. So, apart from the polls here and there, the public change exam has no reflection. So there's no fitback. She's not in any way two-way. It is not said here that the citizens of Croatia influence the communication strategy or that they influence the way in which Croatia will define its position in future negotiations and in such a way that it intertwines with one another's views. So when the Croatian public or citizens of Croatia know something that has been achieved that we can then have a fit back from the citizens and define our decisions or our negotiating position in the second round of negotiations with that fitback. So then after that, you have working resources and activities and access where the same thing that we previously called information and procedures is now saying that they are labour and procedures. So, there really isn't even some serious writing consistency in this strategy, and especially here, I don't think that these new means of work, because if it's a working tool, and it's not a working tool, it's simply a technique of press conferences, then the press conference can't be in the same group of working means with, for example, cooperation with religious communities. So one is a technique and the other is a desire to achieve something. The press conference can achieve cooperation with religious communities or cooperation with civil society and you cannot put each other and write under the same title. Otherwise, by looking at it like this, these are rare materials communicational where we got such written materials communication strategy. It seems to me that this is not even a document, but an unearthed or printed presentation. And that tells us what our communication strategy is like to communicate or inform parliamentarians. I think it might have turned into one valid document. Furthermore, we believe that if the Croatian Parliament already brings up a communication strategy then Parliament should therefore monitor its implementation and not here as it says that the Government will monitor and assess the implementation of the strategy. So, if we bring it in, we certainly need to spend it completely. I am interested, for example, in these target groups, which are listed why there are no negotiators. Does the communication strategy not apply to negotiators? Should we not communicate with them, and should they not communicate with the Croatian public? We therefore propose to the Government that this document be withdrawn from the procedure, let it call a tender for the creation of a communication strategy with the citizens of Croatia and so to be called and, if the PR agencies have already offered free cooperation, let them do so. We are concerned about the content of this document because we are afraid that the result of the implementation will not be a positive result in the referendum and I remind you that most of the votes of all citizens are needed. It would not be good for this strategy to experience the fate of a mega-media campaign that has been opened suddenly after the presidential campaign ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53822	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the honourable representative of Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53823	Well, it's gonna take me a lot to fix up here, and I've heard a lot of things because I know little about information, and I know little about comms, and I know little about communication, but something else has bothered me. In his very inspired speech, Mršić said the following and stayed alive, he said, "There is no Croatian public in Croatia, but there are citizens of Croatia." So please, dear fellow, there is a French public in France, there is an Italian public in Italy, there is a German public in Germany. The golden democratic party age has passed until 1990 when we always used Croatia as a genius. You must understand the time has come that this is Croatia in nomination and that we can always use the adjective of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53824	Thank you. Minister, please welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would give further explanations with a communication strategy, which is the communication strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and is actually sent to the Croatian Assembly wishing, or in agreement with the National Committee, that the Croatian Parliament is also one of the important factors in the whole process involved in its implementation. This seminar work that you have received has actually been created on the general frameworks that have been adopted during the former government, so the former European Ministry of Integration, and since then it has been largely upgraded. A lot of new initiatives have been added, and this has just been made a two-way communication of citizens because we have added initiatives that allow citizens to express their views in, both via electronic media, via a free phone, info phones that can be called both in direct contact with negotiators, with me personally and with all other factors of this process and with all those who have their opinions on European integration. I don't agree that the goal is to get the citizens to vote for it. The aim is for citizens to make an informed and well-founded decision in a referendum which will therefore be based not on prejudice but on concrete and objective information on the European Union, on life in the European Union and on all the adjustments that need to be made so that citizens can prepare themselves in time for everything that we expect both in the negotiation process and in future membership in the European Union. Yes, communication is a two-way symmetric flow of information. It is aimed at the entire Croatian public, I repeat. But also the target groups that are numbered and are particularly described in the communication strategy itself. As far as terminology is concerned, I can accept your comments and can give to the addition of experts, however, here I think that termological remarks cannot be of substantiative importance, of substance. The communication strategy is a general framework, a question and a work programme that comes with it for 2006 for example, which was developed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and which contains a number of work activities. And I would like, for example, to join the EU quiz, "Login et Europe", so competitions for primary and secondary school students, EU trams, EU trams, trams for primary school students, Europe 20, 20, international poster competition. Europe in Croatia, information and public education project. I would single out the National Forum on the European Union as a particularly important instrument because this is exactly what brings debate in the European Union, the European Union in the local environment, and where, together with citizens and with a wide range of people who have different opinions from Eurosceptics to Eurooptimists, we will indeed objectively discuss the advantages and potential shortcomings of membership. So to quote here in 2006 are the meetings of the National Forum on Agricultural Policy in Osijek in February, on indigenous products in Požega in March, real estate sales in Zadar in April, environmental protection in Gospić in May, fishing policy on Vis in June. Croatia's rights and obligations as members of the European Union in Split in July. Competition of the Croatian economy Čakovec in September. Programmes to help the European Union in Vukovar in October, cultural heritage Dubrovnik, November. Labour market, Sibenik, December. So the voice portal info phone will be established this year. It'll be free for all citizens. Co-operation with NGOs and the civil sector will be stepped up to include the NGO sector in the debate, as the ministry is always seen as a government body with a certain amount of skepticism. So, in the implementation of this communication strategy, we really need each of us to take our part. Cooperation with the county councils for European integration, publishing activities, promotional activities, the cycle of the "Abeced of the European Union" seminar, which are always interactive because they allow questions and discussions on various topics. Lectures on different topics. Summer, winter school of European integration. "E Learning Module", the basics of the European Union, the EU meeting and so on. When it comes to what happened "Let's Buy Croatia" the Croatian Chamber of Commerce as the holder of the action gave an explanation and an answer to what happened. Unfortunately, however, in all of this, the implementation of the communication strategy and the media must understand their role in presenting objective facts. That is why seminars and working with the media will be an important part of the communication strategy. Secondly, when it comes to cheese and cream, unfortunately in the communication strategy, we cannot give an explanation of all individual issues because then it would have several thousand pages. However, we have published, for example, the brochure "Mits and Legends of the European Union" which is very interesting, very picturesque, which we give to citizens. Among other things, cheese and cream and roasting of rakija and other issues are explained, and I must say that in countless cases, I have explained in countless cases both on Croatian television and in the media what will happen with cheese and cream, or that nothing will happen, that the European Union will not ban it. However, we will have to start to respect, above all, the laws and regulations of the standards that we ourselves have adopted, and then certainly build them upon those regulations when it comes to the protection from brucellosis, when it comes to protecting them from trichinosis. So it's about the necklace. So on all those regulations that are primarily in the interest of protecting Croatian citizens. And that is, indeed, one of the fundamental motives of this communication strategy, which is to clarify everything we do for ourselves, because of Croatia, because of Croatian citizens, and not because of what the European Union is asking us to do and that eventually it will be the decision of Croatian citizens on whether Croatia will enter the European Union, but here we want it to be informed and based on the right facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53826	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53827	Well, I'd like to correct the false assumption that this strategy sets out target groups according to the law of the profession. You cannot identify target groups according to the law of the profession unless one strategy is preceded, one full study precedes. Here they are actually just numbered by some kind of sociological model of all sorts of groups that, let's say so, we can say make up the Croatian public, and religious groups, and young people, and old and political parties. I'm only interested in one thing, how you'll assess the success of this strategy if you don't have a starting point, you don't know where we're going. In fact, the whole strategy isn't really anything but someone took that opportunity and copied it from this book, or from a book like this, right, a few things. In fact, he only stuck to the introduction and general provisions, and that book didn't go all the way to where all these segments were being worked out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53828	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53829	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Ms. Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to say that unlike colleagues Mršić and the SDP club, the Croatian Democratic Community club will be very pleased to support the proposal for a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and the preparations for membership. The reason for that is clear. The document is good and is a step forward in achieving the strategic goals of the Croatian state. And full membership in the European Union is defined as the main strategic objective of Croatian foreign and internal policy. There is continuity in Croatian politics, the agreement of all relevant political forces and the will to achieve the best status of the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations on full membership. Until membership, three main priorities of the Croatian government, further implementation of structural reforms, quality negotiating and quality information for citizens on the course of membership negotiations in the European Union. Croatia, like other countries preparing for membership, is facing the challenge of obtaining support from its citizens for a positive decision in a referendum on entry into the European Union. This should be assisted by a well-designed communication strategy on Union accession. The strategy must explain to citizens why it is important for them to join the European Union, which are the effects of integration. The strategy must be presented and explained to the European Union and how it works. In 2001, the previous Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the first communication strategy as a basic document for all information education activities on the European Union between 2001 and 2004. However, this strategy has not fully met its purpose and I do not understand the position of the SDP club that it is now challenging something that is more systematic, more precisely, more transparent, in one word better than they have offered Croatian citizens. Furthermore, the strategy defines the purpose, objectives and approach of information, language and tone of the target group, participants and partners in communication and means of information. So, Mr Mršić and his colleagues from the SDP, the strategy contains all the essential elements that one successful communication strategy must contain. What distinguishes this proposal for a communication strategy from the previous three essential elements. First, it is overlooked to step up activities aimed at the general public and all social groups, so activities that would reach every Croatian citizen. Secondly, the information will be adapted to the requirements of specific target groups. Thirdly, the strategy provides for new labour, activities and approaches, which are conditional on the current level of relations with the European Union, but is also based on the experiences of other candidate countries. When it comes to new approaches and strategy activities, it provides for public information on negotiations and their progress, creating a network of information coordinators in the European Union in state administration bodies, reflecting a national forum on EU accession, strengthening cooperation with media identified as key communication partners and creating a partnership in the implementation of communication activities. This proposal for a communication strategy has therefore been created on the basis of previous Croatian experiences in the approximation of the European Union, but also on the experience of Member States and their communication with citizens. Given all the experience gained, the activities introduced by this strategy should increase the frequency and quality of information of Croatian citizens. We can therefore say that the main objective of the strategy is to further inform and motivate the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and achieve the highest and most fundamental possible understanding of all aspects of accession to the European Union. What is most important in this implementation is the creation of a communication link between civil and political society, i.e. between citizens and decision-makers. This relationship is not as Mršić said in the cross-cutting and self-informative process, but communication shows that it is the dialogue of all those interested in Croatia's future. For a number of years, the European Union has been paying great attention to the effective and quality information of citizens. Since 1999, Europe has not come down from the agenda of the European Union and its Member States. That this issue is very important also shows the fact that, apart from the adoption of the communication strategy in 2002 and today's Vice-President of the European Union, Margot Waltrem is also responsible for the communication strategy. In November last year, the European Commission also adopted an action plan for Europe's communication. Its main emphasis is precisely on the need for dialogue and the principle of two-way communication between citizens and decision-makers. So, principles to communicate, not just to inform what this strategy, presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, is for sure. When we talk about communication strategies in the Member States, although part of the content has always been agreed in Brussels, most of the responsibility for informing the public about the European Union and its themes was borne by the Member States themselves. Let us recall the case of Ireland where the National Forum on Europe was established to encourage debate on the European Union and on Irish membership in the European Union. Members of the National Forum were representatives of all parliamentary parties of both the homes of the Irish Parliament and representatives of civil society. National Forum sessions were open to the public, and were held throughout the country. The Forum has created a formal round of discussions on everything it has created an appropriate atmosphere in public and the need to confront citizens with the importance of the European Union, with the importance of the European Union's issues for their everyday life. That is why I am particularly pleased that, on the basis of Irish experience and Croatia in 2004, the National Forum on the Accession of the European Union, which is and will be one of the key forums in which a regular public debate on Croatian preparations for membership in the European Union will be held. However, when it comes to new Member States and their way of communicating with citizens, they all had the same aim, to prepare citizens for life in the European Union and the challenges that this membership faces, and to prepare them for a membership referendum. With certain difficulties, however, the new Member States have been successful in communicating Europe, informing citizens and encouraging debate on the subject. In most countries, a communication link has been created between citizens and decision-makers, i.e. the Government. By countering these experiences, we can say that in order to successfully conduct a communication strategy, special attention must be paid to decentralisation of the process, a high degree of coordination of activities between the institutions involved in the process of negotiations, transparency of the process, preparedness to open dialogue on the positive and negative effects of membership, the timely provision of information and financial and human potentials for the implementation of information and communication activities. Dear colleagues and colleagues returning to the proposal for a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and preparations for membership, we are pleased to note that it contains all the elements for creating a successful communication link with Croatian citizens and informing them about the topics of the European Union. It is further positive that this document takes into account the diversity and dynamics of the approach process and is therefore flexible and dynamic and can be changed if the need arises. The achievement of membership in the European Union is a challenge that requires the mobilisation of all available potentials not only among decision-makers and within the state administration but also requires the mobilisation of the entire Croatian society. With the political agreement on this issue which we have reached and which we must further strengthen the successful achievement of the common strategic objective can only be achieved with the support of all segments of Croatian society and Croatian citizens. But the political consensus that we have achieved and responsibility, and sometimes because of the collection of cheap political points, which we have seen today, unfortunately, in the presentations of individual colleagues, individual European topics are treated negatively without full consideration of that issue, so it is particularly important what messages we send to citizens, and especially to our younger citizens because they will benefit the most from membership in the European Union and will be the bearers of the process of resuscitating the Republic of Croatia with the standards and structures of the European Union. The role of the media, in particular public television and all aspects and angles of information collected, and objective and true information will be crucial to the understanding of the integration process. Let me also point out for the end the role that we MPs play in implementing this strategy. In order to achieve that membership in the European Union is generally accepted and the national objective, MPs are given a new task, which is to actively and continuously get to know their voters about all aspects of the European Union's negotiations process and the effects of full membership in the European Union. This also assumes part of the responsibility for raising public awareness on topics related to the European Union. In doing so, we need to follow the principles of listening to the citizens and their needs, communicate with them, interact with them by acting as locally as possible. Only in this way will we raise the level of their information and education on the European integration process and achieve that membership in the European Union becomes a common universally accepted goal. For all of these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal for a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and preparing for membership in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53830	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53831	Thank you very much. A colleague said this strategy is much better than Racan's. If we try to contaminate it then, during Racan's EU accession strategy, between 2002 and 2003, between 70% and 80%. It's 40% somewhere now. But I think dear colleagues and colleagues are not in the best interest of us actually competing here and getting or losing political points. In the end, this story doesn't go public either. What I believe is in everyone's interest, which is to get a quality strategy. I'm sorry, I can't figure out that two years is a rejection of the story... about the deposit, that we still don't have a logo campaign to join the EU. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Let's say Macedonia has a very nice logo, let's say the sun and stars, and Croatia doesn't. So let's at least make that logo.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53832	Thank you. This concludes our afternoon session work. The sequel is tomorrow... Correction of an incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53833	I would correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Jandrokovic who said the last strategy was bad. There's no way of knowing if she was good or bad because we don't have any indicators. So that was our observation, we don't know what our starting base is, we didn't get any research, we didn't get what we need to do and what we don't, but we're going to go to the general public with general information. And if this isn't a communication strategy, it tells you the name, this is a communication strategy for information. If she wanted to communicate, then she'd be a communication strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53834	Thank you. Tomorrow, it's 9:30. It's up to Ante Markov, the esteemed representative, the HSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53835	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. Honorable representative of Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53836	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the HSS Club several principle notes in the context of a proposal for a communication strategy for informing Croatian citizens. This is in some way the first novel of the communication strategy so far, which was first presented somewhere in 2001, aimed at making it easier for Croatian citizens to try to bring closer to what the European Union and the European Union's community represents, but also to bring closer to the way those who are directly involved in the processes that are now taking place by the politicians of executive and legislative authorities. The overall attempt was to make our citizens one simple way to understand and see what this was really about. It is unquestionable that the trust or mistrust of citizens who have a fluctuating character and are dependent on daily economic and political issues reacts exactly the same way even though it has been such a case so far, depending on how the policy is asked, which the topics impose and how they try to give answers to the most important social, economic and political issues. What we at the HSS Club consider is, of course, we agree that these external manifestations that are clearly mentioned in this communication strategy that try all structures of young people, particularly sensitive, less sensitive, than drivers of public change, in a way focus as the main factors of these processes. We think that this communication strategy should indicate one very, very important thing that almost does not appear in such communication strategies, but not at all in serious dialogues lately. It's about focusing on the inner manifestation. We must make it very clear that we will find it very difficult for our citizens to be those in a group sensitive to change or less sensitive to show and prove everything the European Union and the values it offers. If those same values and those same relationships and that kind of behavior we try to come up with in our home, in our country. I think the values that Croatia has from cultural, economic, natural, so if you want and from national values must also be part of every communication strategy. Because if we do not start by ourselves and if we do not believe in what we have on us first, then we will find it very difficult to believe in those values that the European Union has. One example has always led to an open controversy like the European Union. Is it Europe culture and Europe nation. For us in the HSS, it is Europe culture and Europe nation. When we talk about Europe, Croatia has its own culture, it has one of its cultural pyramids built, which is neither ashamed nor inferior to the same built European culture. Therefore, in that part of Croatia there is. It is and it can be absolutely compared, but first it needs to create the identity of its own culture. Its own culture is very important that we can compete in one European way with all other cultures. Europe nation, Croatia is a national state like the world in which we have been coming lately increasingly building our individuality. He wants to protect his individuality. Of course, this protection of individuality is later very well presented in the economic strategy of each country. That is why it would not be a waste in this, but also in any other strategy very clearly to draw national interests, national values and not to oppose them in terms of competition or contesting other identities, but to strengthen the power of its own cultural and national identity. This will make it much easier to bring our citizens closer to a positive picture, as we at the HSS Club believe that Europe has a positive picture and we believe that our strategic goals and economic and political objectives will be easier to achieve in this environment. But not in a way that we pray daily to Europe, but we need to work more to reach certain assumptions that in the community of the people, in the European Union we will be able to deal equally in all areas of economic, cultural and all those who make common in certain relations. Therefore, we can do a lot of things even now that we are not formally in the European Union. We can double our gross social product beyond the European Union. We can improve the quality of life beyond the European Union. We must begin the whole series of processes to be visible and visible to every citizen simply so that he can be convinced and that he acquires one attachment, that the processes that are conducted for him are processes, not against him. Because very often these things have been happening lately. Of course, the task of politicians, especially representatives in the Croatian Parliament, is precisely to act in this direction. And the task of the executive is to prove on the ground that these processes are possible, that progress in these processes is possible, and only a man who has experienced this can testify. No one can believe any communication strategy unless he's convinced. Therefore, small small steps to be prepared by the executive authority, and those in the economy are the most significant. Namely, why do we not have enough investment in Croatia? Well, probably because something doesn't work for us in conditions that need to be realized for investors to come. Obviously, our labour costs are too high, especially those costs relating to contributions. It is evident that we are not attractive even in the so-called new investment phase. It is evident that we have a huge backlog in relation to other neighbouring countries and even those not in the European Union, and in terms of investment, but also in relation to other indicators that testify to the level of living standards growth at the real level. Because this level of public and general consumption cannot be maintained under conditions of these levels of subjugation. Therefore, of course, as the strategy says, it is necessary to act on young people and a group sensitive to change. This group sensitive to change, it is particularly interesting because it is held that it, can be the most affected, and I think it should be the most rewarded by entering the European Union. And maybe he's a little mischosen, that target group C because it's immediately suggested that they're the ones that got hit. They should not be affected, our fishermen should not be affected by entering the European Union. They have reasons if they are allowed what their colleagues in Italy have, not to be hit but to be rewarded. But it is not up to the European Union again, but depends on us whether we will do the same. Of course, if we don't make fish farmers, if we don't organize fish traffic, if we don't give the necessary subsidies to our fishermen, if we don't allow them to protect our fishing-environment zone, then it won't be possible to do so. And then no communication or strategy in which we will communicate with our citizens or those sensitive groups will, of course, give results. But it doesn't have to be that way. Therefore, these change-sensitive groups can also be the most rewarded groups by entering the European Union. And I think that's how it should be interpreted. But for this, it is necessary to provide credible documents on the basis of which these groups, groups in Agror, farmers, those living from the country will receive very clear and unequivocal answers regarding agricultural land. The prime minister said there's no selling to strangers. It's okay, we welcome it. However, this topic needs to be further tried at the legal level to see how sustainable it is and how sustainable it is. Have some processes already taken place in some way within the framework of existing Croatian legislation passed the topic. Because today, too, it is very clear that shopping can be done in many different ways. The easiest thing to do today is to open a company, a legal person, and through it you can carry out total traffic as a Croatian registered company. Therefore, there is a need to find very clear answers to these questions regarding agricultural land, as regards real estate traffic and all those sensitive responses precisely in Group C, sensitive to change. To turn them from skeptics to optimists, and we can turn them into optimists only by a very clear action that will be visible right in their segments, that they can see that they can expect a change that will be quality and testify to the correctness of everything we tell them and that they will be able to value it. This is how we propose to the Government that in the form of communication with the Croatian public, with all those segments that we hold unquestionable, this information campaign is. Just one more sentence about the information campaign. It says here that it will be held half a year before the referendum itself. I don't think the information campaign can be set up like that, that it'll be held half a year ago. It's still going on today. Every word, every act, all that's done well, all that's said in the right way, all that represents one shift to more is in the nature of one campaign. She does not have the mark of a political campaign that needs a certain, different way of convincing her right now. She's still a campaign of deeds, not a campaign of words. Therefore, I think it is unnecessary and somewhat ugly here that it will begin half a year before the referendum. It's like half a year before the referendum, we're gonna try to convince the citizens to vote for what they don't believe. I don't think that's what we want. We now want to create realistic assumptions based on which our citizens will, with their own wisdom, judge whether it is good or not. So if they judge and it's not good again, they'll be right. Therefore, the strategy aims to learn, to create frameworks for understanding. And it doesn't have to be meant for her to have so much control over people's thinking because it can have the opposite effect. So, with the fact that we have to have an internal manifestation that speaks of our values as primary because then we will respect others. That's how the HSS thinks and gives the government suggestions on how to proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53837	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected representative, Vice President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53838	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HNS Club of course believe that this business of approaching and entering Croatia and politically into Europe, and not only historically and geographically, is our joint work, and thus we understand this proposal for a communication strategy as more like one information and a request for suggestions, which could be further done on this plan, rather than as a question of whether or not. Of course I do. I think, of course, that the obligation of people who deal with public affairs, and especially on topics around which there is a consensus such as this one is such a topic for both Croatia and the European Union, is certainly a subject of consensus. So the question is how do we get to know the smartest, most efficient circle of people with what's ahead of us, what we do and what's going on, what's waiting for us and how we prepare for it? It is our obligation not only to do what is useful and what we agree on but also to expand the information and to do as widely as possible to the citizens of Croatia as it really is one process that must be owned not only by people who are engaged in public affairs but also by the ownership of the entire society, and therefore by the strategy of modernising the functioning of the state, but by the modernisation of society and this time towards the European Union and so on in the HNS, and we see. Surely one of the useful and useful suggestions that is and we assume is of course taken into account in the ministry, which was mentioned yesterday in the debate, which is that it would be useful to hire a professional agency that deals with these affairs to design and add some of its ideas and suggestions to the communication strategy. However, since it is a process of modernisation, a process which we think requires and an initiative of interest, that the initiative is a little more attention to citizens on topics related to this process not as a single routine but as a development strategy, a change strategy in Croatia, and that is why we in the HNS club think that some not quite conventional, not quite common communication strategies should be applied. What is proposed in this paper that is in front of us appears to be in the context of what is common, we believe that to communicate this process might be well accessible to some creative groups and professions that can participate, primarily to artists from dramatic to visual, who in some new and unconventional way could also come up with their contributions and refresh their public interest in matters related to the approximation of the Union and finally Croatian membership in the Union. The other thing that we propose to people who are going to come up with a communication strategy directly is that the whole process certainly involves the Ministry of Education and Science, since it is obvious that the young generations are one of them, so I would say perhaps the most important groups in the Croatian society, which are the most or at least the most long term, and here we propose to introduce them into programmes and schools and suggest universities, and there I have some personal experience with that which is very encouraging to say, that the introduction of any European clock was, let's say, an hour called "Citizen Europe" where people, i.e. high school students, as well as people in colleges, were familiar with both the institutions and the opportunities that are being opened there. I must say from personal experience that in my seminar I had some kind of university simulation of negotiations where students had divided into, on the one hand, a group of negotiators, on the other hand, into representatives of individual countries and simulated in the seminar and negotiations, I think they learned a lot from that, they had to look for data related to the views of certain countries, related to the situation in Croatia in certain areas, we of the 9 chapters of that 35 group simulated those negotiations, but I think that way they got a much wider and more detailed and information which also hired them to look for information about the whole process and what stands before us, so this is one suggestion that I think would be good to accept and include in this strategy. The third suggestion is that a much more intensive and comprehensive thing is used which is quite obvious and perhaps the most powerful argument, and these are the representatives of countries that entered the European Union two years ago, so the representatives of the countries of these 8 Central European countries that entered the Union and in which both the economic situation and the standard and the growth rate have significantly improved where the view on the benefit of entry is expanded and using people from individual sectors and economic and educational and whoever we choose from these countries is organising with them and media performances here in Croatia, which, on their examples, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, the Baltic countries show and talk about what happened in certain segments of them. We believe that it would be particularly convincing and particularly useful to know Croatian citizens because nothing so good can illustrate one process and cannot convince people as someone's practical experience, so as practical examples that others have experienced and have. And finally, the fourth suggestion is that it would be necessary to design as a accompanying strategy one way to systematically engage a wide range of people involved in public affairs. So, from the people in the executive power to us here in Parliament, but also the people at the level of local and regional self-government who would be able to talk about certain segments or the whole process in public, i.e. to engage in discussions and information, or at the very least to conduct a round table debate on this topic that awaits us where we are going and how best we will get there. So, the HNS Club of course supports the communication strategy. We believe that it is an obligation of the executive to, in addition to doing one job, inform the public extensively, especially such significant and actually capital changes that are waiting for us here and we suggest that these or at least some of these suggestions be included in that strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53839	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSU respected representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53840	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In front of the Croatian party of pensioners, I would like to point out that yesterday and last night it is late and this morning we are discussing a proposal for a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and preparations for membership, once because it is a need, a genuine need for Croatian society and the second time because on 13 October 2005, we proposed a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly which was adopted and which is now being realized. Regardless of possible shortcomings, since in the end each material is subject to criticism and nothing is ideal and can satisfy everyone in this assembly and beyond. We in Croatia have looked at this material and examined it, we value it with value and correctness, not final, and we will vote unconditionally for it. We are pleased that the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration in content has not only kept on informing Croatian citizens but has provided for elements of communication with citizens who can be upgraded if necessary because, in our opinion, in the future process, it will not be enough for Croatian citizens just to accept information and adapt to new conditions, but it will require understanding of new situations and changes in thinking and actions and those truly, fundamental changes. Therefore, a communication strategy for meeting the Croatian public with the European Union and preparations for membership may be better suited in the title. But it doesn't bother me like this. It should not be fooled and presented to the public that we have a god-knowing position and that everyone falls on the subject of Croatia's memory. We now have a real opportunity to become part of a large family and to achieve certain rights and positions on the common market or to stay free of the island. We will do so by meeting the criteria of the state as a whole, as well as each citizen individually. Lamentation with cheese and cream rather than saying that we have a negotiating position "take or leave" is quite irresponsible. I know from my personal experience that all the structures of the countries in the European Union and my experiences tie me to neighbouring Italy, which is otherwise full of emotion and temperament. I say, all structures in the European Union are talking or speaking dominantly in the language of arguments and much less in the language of emotion and any distraction of emotions in communication with citizens is counterproductive for the future accession process. If we have said that our goal is to join the European Union and we have, and we have, by consensus in this assembly, then it must be a serious job. It's a job that costs, which costs the taxpayers of this country and we can't behave, let's just say everything we think, let's pick up cheap political points, and we'll see how the referendum goes and we'll act that way. This is a serious job, and everyone has to take it seriously because we said that, or here, we decided that it was a strategic goal, and in this direction we all have to go together. As a matter of fact, I would like to give on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club several remarks and suggestions in good faith and it is up to the Proposer to accept them or not but it does not in any way affect the final commitment to support this proposal. In the section of the information and procedures, although what I am about to say can also be in the work plan for 2006 or for each future year, I think that in the context of holding regular conferences, under the heading of public debates and under the heading of maintenance or media activity should stand at least in what dynamics. We must therefore make some commitments in which certain structures of society will provide certain information to the public or to organise certain media activities. Then, although it doesn't mind what the government's most important communication partners and citizens are quoted as saying about the economic sector, business people, their associations and trade unions. We have some names that tell us about institutionalized social dialogue and I think it would better fit here as "Social partners (employees' associations and union associations)". But it is up to the promoter to respect it or not to respect it. Then, we have a suggestion in the "New Labour, Activities and Approaches" chapter to add another new basis that would read "enhanced co-operation or networking with local, local, regional self-government". Then we propose three new conclusions, namely the extension of the existing conclusion with the following: "The 1st Work Programme and financial plan for 2006 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations will produce within 60 days of the day of adoption of this communication strategy and will be distributed to representatives of the Croatian Parliament; 2nd within a maximum of 90 days of adoption of this strategy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration will conduct an enhanced targeted examination of the opinion and moods of the Croatian public as an initial position in order to monitor the effects of the implementation of this communication strategy; 3rd this communication strategy, depending on the observed needs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, will complement the inclusion of new communication methods and techniques and entities." If this is interesting, we will give the proposal in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53841	Thank you. It's time to sign up for 10 minutes. HSP representative club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53842	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. The HSP club expresses primarily its large reserve on this communication strategy for informing the Croatian public because so far we have often witnessed completely false or insufficient information, information by the Croatian state and its representatives about how negotiations are going or what are actually European requirements. It is not a rare case, which was indeed a matter of cardinal failures, or of convincing the Croatian public of a completely different request from those in the European Regulation. I would remind myself of one of the most dramatic delusions, which is the delusion that Croatia will have to open its fishing sea to other countries' fishing fleets by entering the European Union. This was a "light" motif based on which it was introduced in the course of the amendment of the Marine Fisheries Act, especially in the famous article 45, when it was intended to allow foreigners to open their branches in Croatia to their fishing companies. In order to finally find a provision in the European Commission's regulation that this is absolutely unnecessary and that the Member States of the European Union, and that we do not have to open our fishing seas until 2012 unless there are some traditionally acquired rights. So first of all, I mean fishing in the territorial sea while the economic belt is a special regime. So from the very fact that you can understand the importance of accurate information on the regulation of the European Union. That the Law on Marine Fisheries has not been amended in such an unsolicited way we can thank in the first order the Union of Fishermen, the Cehu of Fishermen, certain scientists from the Oceanographic Institute in Split, or many responsible individuals in the Croatian public who are warned. So the Croatian public, in the first place, needs accurate information on what is really in European legislation first. And secondly, is this European regulation valid or will it just start to apply? I am particularly telling you this for the sake of another story, which is the story of, the alleged need to bring our sugar market into line with the European Union where it has been talked about how it is a strategy that has already come to life and we need to adapt to it, but one important fact has been forgotten, which is that this strategy is only a proposal and that it may become an official document if it is adopted by July of this year by the Member States of the Union. Or maybe it won't become an official document. However, Croatia acted accordingly, and the Croatian government gave information to the Croatian public as if the strategy had already been adopted almost for good. When I visited the Danish Parliament just over a year ago, I was delighted that there was also a joint information team of their foreign and European integration ministry and this information team, the library, which I say, has an obligation to provide accurate information and members of the government and all representatives in the Danish Parliament, but also any citizen of any student, farmer, fisherman on how things are in some part of European regulation. We need to achieve this level of information here in the first place. And the aim of this communication strategy is not and cannot be to convince Croatian citizens that it is good for them in the European Union or that the result of the vote in the referendum is positive. That doesn't. Because that would actually mean "agit prop." And we in HSP do not want this communication strategy to be an "agit pro" to be a simple propaganda for the European Union, which will also leave out those dark sides of the European Union. Which will leave out complete information, which is that when you have a story about free trade, it is usually about free trade in those products where Croatia is not competitive, but if you accidentally need a product such as a steel press tube from Sisak, which is competitive in the European Union, then we automatically fall apart on such a quota product. That's the level of information we want. So full information about the Union, and we have no doubt that when Croatian citizens know a full picture of the Union, they will make no problem deciding whether we need a union or not? Information on the Union has a direct impact on the vote on accession. You have the greatest support for joining the European Union today in Azerbaijan, Georgia, Armenia and Kosovo. People don't know anything, and they're all thrilled to join the Union because they expect to enter the garden of Eden where there will be money on shovels. As information about the Union is increased, the most common support for entry into the Union falls. And in all the countries that entered the Union, it was about 60 percent. Of course, as the day of entry into the Union approaches, information often increases, and information about the Union contributes to an increased interest in the Union because people understand that all mechanisms are still present and that there are all together and some good sides. But we don't want to arbitration here. So we do not want to create a strategy, and I think neither the Croatian Government nor the Croatian Parliament should advocate a strategy that will show only the beautiful sides. It's for a strategy that will give a real picture of the situation. First of all, people need to be told there's no way we're getting as much money from the Union as she was getting from Ireland. Ireland has been in the period since '73. Until '93. receive a yearly little less than $2 billion in aid from European funds. So much money Croatia will never win. We'll get a dozen times less per year. Second. We already have a free market with the European Union, because it is so prescribed by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, with whenever the European Union is squandered about a product and about some of our excessive exports, such as sugar, then it tries to introduce quotas to limit it. And thirdly, of course there is no free labour market after entering the Union, but it will be seven or more years as is the case with others. And fourthly, some of these things are already negotiated during the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and some things can really be difficult to change there, such as the whole story with the real estate market, i.e. with individual demands from the Croatian public concerning exports or the protection of our products. The Croatian public therefore needs a real picture, and if this strategy goes to give a real picture in the negotiations, we will be pleased with it. If it goes after the creation of an optimistic picture of the European Union then it is not good for Croatia, because I repeat the final decision they want to make the Croatian citizens on a referendum based on full information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53843	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53844	Mr Tadic's very interesting statement, but I must correct one false quote when he said that people in Albania know nothing, I literally quote about the European Union. That's clearly a false allegation. They know a lot about the European Union. They know clearly that living in the European Union is incomparably better than in Albania as they also know that in the European Union it has lived incomparably better than when Albania was ruled by the Envera Hodje regime.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53845	IDS agent club. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53846	Dear President, the esteemed representatives of the ministry, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Yesterday when I said that the Croatian paradox is that today 2006, the biggest euro skeptics were the ones who destroyed Yugoslavia in the 1990s with passwords about Europe. Those who recognized each other told me that before I went to speak to myself or to cross over. And it is one of, one, that I am late, it is one of the biggest Croatian paradoxes, so unique to Croatian opportunities in Croatia where everything is simply subject to change. I repeat, once again in the 1990s, we have brought down Yugoslavia with parliaments on Europe and on freedom of the media and on multilateralism and on the overcoming of borders, on the free economy, on freedom of speech, on a good European standard, so that today, as we have planted much of the system at the time, we will begin to corrupt the European Union as well. It is clear that Yugoslavia could not remain, the majorisation of one another, the minorisation of another, the war, the aggression, the terrible slaughter in Vukovar, Škabrnja etc. It must have resulted clearly in the collapse of that country. However, today every failure is somehow being planted on the European Union, and we are all aware that without the European Union it cannot survive, clearly it can survive, but certainly there is no perspective, regardless of what today's Financial Times is saying that after a Europe of twenty-seven, it is easy to stop the enlargement process with Bulgaria and Romania. Absolutely I agree with those who mentioned yesterday, today that the European Union is in crisis at this time and it is in a serious crisis. They did not adopt the Constitution, dispute about enlargement, the euro questioned some of theirs to say social elements of value, etc. The war in Iraq has deepened divisions between these countries, but certainly these ten new members who have recently entered the European Union, from us neighbouring Slovenia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, etc. they have profited well from the European Union. The message I would say from these discussions to our citizens has to read about it. You gentlemen will eventually decide on Croatia's future for the European Union in a referendum. It rightly hangs you and hangs the Constitution that certainly will not change in that part no one can take away. You can make it clear to yourself, but you have to ask yourself the question of who you're going to tell – to the politicians certainly not. They'll sort it out. I told the importers yesterday, too. It suits them like this. Foreign capital will also not be able to be intimated because they too may be suited to isolated Croatia where the enormous ones are obtained via Telecom, etc. He's getting out of this country. Real estate buyers, etc. etc. So, in some ways, we can only intimate ourselves and our children. Why? That's what you need to look at these tables on that gross social product. I often highlight this new European Union countries. According to purchasing power, one Poland has 2,000 dollars more gross social product than Croatia. Hungary as many as 5000, the Czech Republic 7000, one Slovakia also 3000, one Slovenia almost 9000. This means by purchasing power their gross social product larger than the Republic of Croatia. According to some other parameters of the country we have always seen with heights are also well ahead of Croatia. The Slovenian gross social product Republic of Croatia, meaning the one from 2005 or 2006 will not reach in ten years, and in three, four, five years if we are not really a member of the European Union, we will not reach Slovenia's gross social product in twenty years. And that's actually the point. These issues now about agriculture, sugar, real estate don't stand up either. Of the average three acres, that's the point. A farmer in Croatia can't live, could live in communism, but communism should have collapsed. Mr. Tadic was also talking about sugar. Well, the European Union saved Croatian sugars, because from 2002 to this year, we export about 150 million euros of sugar to third markets. Before that, all the sugars were just before bankruptcy. Real estate, so I'd say that's one special hypocrisy. The state sold all the banks, HT, Ina, privatized almost the entire national portfolio, and now they would suddenly defend a small man from having his own. True, that little man will say something like this. What's national is from all of us, not to sell, but let the private go. By agreeing who today is able to buy thousands, two or three thousand square meters of land by the sea? A worker with a $4,000 average salary? No, I don't. Assembly representatives with 13,000 kunas? Very, very hard. A doctor with seven, eight thousand kunas, with these 12 or 13 thousand kunas? It's also hard. So he can buy a tycoon like that. A rabbit who had nothing up to 32 years old, suddenly became the owner of the Ingrad Stone at this time of 700 people. I agree that the European Union is cruel, that it should work, that it should behave more neatly, I mean doing business than in Croatia. Respect an incomparably more state than this is the case with an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia, but in the long term it is a far more promising situation for every citizen of this country. At last, in the '60s, '50s and '70s, no one from these places came from the east, but they all went west. The truth is also we have to admit that nowhere could have been easier to get an apartment than in ex-Yugoslavia. I'm not, neither are my parents. Nowhere could have been easier to get to work than in ex-Yugoslavia. Nowhere has health been more available than in ex-Yugoslavia, but that country has fallen apart because it could neither answer national questions, economic challenges, human freedoms, etc. And those are the facts. Finally, our country with about 7-8 thousand dollars or euro of gross social product simply cannot run an isolationist policy. We could be Switzerland, if we had 45 or 50 thousand dollars or euro of gross social product per capita. And that is why it might be good to listen to the church's position once, because I absolutely disagree with it on Sundays and let's not simply reject the European Union. If they are not afraid that they will lose to say that national identity, then I don't think they should be afraid of Croatian citizens either. This report, gentlemen, perhaps I agree here with Mr Tadic, perhaps in this form it should not have been before the Parliament. Maybe the government, as Mrs Pusic says, was supposed to hire some... agency or whatever it is called, to promote these views. What's strange is these funds are gentlemen on page 21 where they say: Funds for the work of target groups are mentioned, political parties, presentations, seminars, conferences, public debates etc. Media, editors, journalists, seminars, study trips means that we will pay them, public debates, public events, trade unions, dedicated publications, thematic, TV and radio programs as if we can influence it, and then NGOs, seminars, conferences, public debates, local associations, societies, scientists and then we have even religious communities, religious holders, religious dignitaries, etc. etc. I believe that these institutions should be completely autonomous, and that's where I said I agree with Mr Tadic that I am against some state agitro, but even more or more so against some god-awful dictatorship as it turns out in all of this, even though it or in such a plastic way no one in the ministry has even thought about it. One word, we can't stop them, we can't put them in our cars. It is clear that it is going to the European Union, and I know that the mood is changing in Istria as well. In the '90s it was 100% for, today it could be half-and-a-half. Although all these years and these people need to know the same, we have lived from Europe, from tourism which is 91% meaning guests while foreigners are exporting, we are the only ones who have covered imports with 50:50 exports. Trade, catering is also largely relying on foreign markets. Oil 100% exports to the west, Cimos which is 50% of Croatia's auto-industry 100% exports to the west etc. etc. So if someone will benefit from tomorrow's European Union, then this Western Europe will primarily benefit from forward-looking markets from Istria, but it is clear that Croatia will profit as well. What I'm most afraid of right now is the possibility of losing subsidies. Last year, Jadrolini received about 360 million kuna from the state budget. In two years, almost one billion. Shipbuilding gets billions of kuna a year, our ironworks hundreds of millions of kunas and I fear clear threats, privatisation in Croatian way. But once again, I want to say, we will all profit from the European Union. It is also clear that the European Union is not what our citizens are experiencing, the Hague Court, but we have in some way launched this Hague court ourselves. There's an entire political chemistry, the entire Serbian '90s "establischment". There are some Croats there, but no matter what, I believe Croatia has no other choice. The choice is the Balkans, stay here isolated or the European Union. To me, a clear question is just one thing. Can we reach Bulgaria and Romania at this time, we are both economically ahead of them and whether we can join them in the European Union. The answer is probably not, but it hurts me if some forecasts from the Financial Times and other Western European politicians finally come true. In one word, I have no illusions about the European Union, but I am absolutely for the European Union. And the truth is that no one will give this country anything for us and there is right Mr. Tadic, Croatia is not Ireland or one Portugal or before that Greece. In one word, we will have to fight for everything ourselves, but I believe that the long-term Republic of Croatia does not have a perspective without the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53847	Thank you. Inaccurate quote, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53848	Speaking of Poland as a bright example of inclusion in the Union and Polish sugars, it is necessary, colleague Cain, to... information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Polish sugars have come to a difficult economic situation and bankruptcy for the same reason our sugars are waiting for. It doesn't matter more beautiful... in Portugal or in other countries which have entered the Union precisely for the purpose of this adjustment process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's how it's going to be in Croatia. Some will completely fail, some will survive, some will be better. On average, it'll probably be better for everyone in 20 years, but that fact should be told to people just like that, without twisting and without telling me stories and fairy tales about how we're about to start with a perfectly good situation. Not at all. Not at all. That's exactly what this is about. So, if one of our sugars fails, that means a complete disaster for the County, for example. But then you should be able to tell people in the parish.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53849	And respected representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53850	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations that Mr. Cain has been saying all along in every exhibit, where he praises communism and Yugoslavia. I quote, "In communism, you could live off three acres of land, and now you can't." Well, Mr. Cain, look at how many Croats have evicted us in the time of Yugoslavia, so you'll know how well we could have lived. And as for your question, who can buy land at sea, so can Jakovcic because he bought an entire village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53851	Club representatives of HSLS, DC, LS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53852	Mr. President, calm down, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53853	Comrade Cain, this isn't a folk rally.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53854	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that on behalf of the club HSLS, LS and DC, we can freely conclude that both yesterday's and today's debate shows that we have progressed greatly in relation to the situation several years ago. And that the question of the European Union is no longer a party issue and that there is indeed one consensus that this is a job, a job that we must do together. And indeed this proposal of the strategy I also see as a general framework, and we are asked to also participate in this with certain proposals, namely the contents of that framework, which is called how to explain it to people, to explain in fact what is waiting for them in the European Union, since we have now become full candidates. And as things stand, regardless of these statements coming from the European Union, something dramatic may happen after Romania and Bulgaria's reception. And there's certainly all kinds of processes going on there. It is also clear that we in these processes, we must follow them and we must know in an adequate way how to react. But I also think that some speakers here have shown that there has been a whole series of self-deceptions for the last 15 years, 16 years. In the 1990s, Europe was indeed the one, an idea that in some ways determined Croatia's distance from other countries of the former Yugoslavia and was thought to solve everything with Europe. Indeed, there were no politicians in Croatia who did not think that by mentioning the term "Europe" they would indeed show their democratic orientation and show the exact difference to the existing ruling ideology. Of course, over time, it's changed a lot. We could really have a whole here today, show how many Eurofills, meanwhile, became Eurosceptics. But I also think that some, that it's very good for us to ask ourselves ourselves. Because if we face something that we usually like to say, or self - understanding, so we think that some concepts, that we actually know what some concepts mean. Here, too, to do in Parliament a little test analysis would show that mentioning the word "Balkan" actually causes these negative connotations in us. And usually, most people with the Balkans would tie negative attributes which actually... shows that we don't really know anything about it very little or really. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just like we like to say about ourselves that we're a Central European state, we're full of mouths just like that... Our mouths are full of Mediterranean cultures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you know, when you look at it like that, you take yesterday's national weekly, then you see that there are these national clubs in this Central European Zagreb. Surely Istanbul wouldn't have anything to do with it. Also, it's almost even happening to us serious politicians here, so to be sure, we don't know Nigeria, we're not Armenia, and yet if we were actually to be honest right now and say that we really don't know about Armenian culture or African culture we know very little and modestly. And sometimes this "fountains" our superior position is something that would be good if we had reconsidered it and when right now this story called "on preparations for entry into the European Union" could somehow help us face a whole series of stereotypes that, I say, exist and that sort of define our everyday life. It's good to create a positive ambience and I think it's right to think positively is something that is also the task of politics to create such an environment. But I'm saying, she and the positive ambience, he can't be without cover. He must have quite a firm foothold. This is my colleagues who wrote this Communication Strategy proposal talking if I'm not wrong about realistic optimism. Here we could hear that some are pushing for cruel realism and that this, this confrontation is already now that we are preparing to be more honest and without these unnecessary creations of the mythisation of certain solutions that, I say, they don't have to be that great. Of course, the liberals have always been, somewhere, it seems to me that somewhere about five, six years ago, a survey was done, and then it was said that the liberals were exactly what they were saying without the rest of the Eurofills and that they were, that they were our most enslaved party. That is exactly what gives us the right to Europe, to advocate the speed of entry, but also to make it clear to us that we must respond to this complexity of Europe with our own complexity. You can't really ignore it and expect anyone to see through your fingers but just all these tasks you have to fulfill, we have to do it for ourselves and that's why we're going to become compatible and then this entry is going to be less dramatic and we're going to be more simple for a whole series of our citizens. I just think that here you should, at least in this communication strategy, I'm reading this principle of inclusion that really as many of our residents as possible be directly... It is also in education that we are educating, and thus creating these assumptions that, by the principle of throwing stones into the water, we can then spread that optimism, but I also think that it is very important that our policy be honest and that we say that honey and milk do not really flow in Europe, that a whole series of segments of our society will have to adapt and that this adjustment will not be painless, but that is why it is very important, and it has happened to the former government, and it is happening some time to this government too, this very stereotype of urgency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know that something must be done very quickly, precisely because as the European Union allegedly asks us, and then you can find a thousand and one example that it is not so much as it seems to me that it is very important to make good preparation, prepare here and just so that we can get as painless or with as little resistance as possible into that European Union and then adapt to the very rules of the game that apply there. It's not, I'm saying, well, really that there's that virtual impression that actually life is going on somewhere else, I think that... Europe, politicians first of all, every six months, polls are done, and then when you do something right, it automatically increases... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , i.e. the number of those who are for the European Union increases, and when things go a little bit worse then you just have one giving up on that goal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This shows a certain instability of our society, it is in fact that the biggest problem is precisely in implementation, we are all about not knowing about the reform of local self-government which is also, precisely that this reform of local self-government is on the trail of those solutions from the European Union, and let's just say that it is only enough to mention the direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors, then we immediately find a thousand and one reason why and how, we already know in advance that it will not work, and that it is not possible that something works in Germany, Austria or Hungary, and that we know in advance that it will not work, and then it is shown that in this implementation we are actually very often avoiding or with exactly the method of this reduction, and that we are actually not actually working on the form in which they should function. It would be good to know exactly who is working at this discriminatory level of this strategy, we know these authors, that we know, that in some way, if we are asked to be political parties, parliamentary representatives, in a way, those who have an impact on public change, that we are just being helped to know what the authors are so that we can also help them. I have to admit that as a liberal, it really bothers me when you don't know, when you and the Priors are leaving, says groups that are sensitive to change, and then immediately one whole segment of our society are farmers, rural people, island residents, disabled persons, pensioners, that we actually know in advance that those groups that I don't know are something more difficult or that everyone thinks there's also in this one approach there's an unnecessary stereotype when and priority certain groups are excluded from these, we're all sensitive to the changes of people who are schooled and people who are... And those who have jobs and who have no work, also that change bothers them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it is also here that they say that this moment in Poland that the best entry into the European Union has been accepted by peasants, farmers, and there is a fear that the peasants in Poland will be the biggest problem, the biggest problem of their adjustment precisely because of all those problems that are plagued by Polish agriculture, but probably nothing better is in Croatia and it seems to me that if things are presented in the right way, then we can really talk not only about harsh realism but also about this very realistic optimism that we very much need. The HSLS, LS and DC club will support this strategy and I'm just saying it's good and the ministry shows exactly that talent that this is not being put in place as a political position as a political party or a particular political option, but is now seeking the participation of all participants, all political, economic and in-house processes. In that sense we have,... [[The speaker away from the microphone, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53855	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53856	Mr. President, here's a colleague who said that when one inaccuracy is shown, when one negativeity is shown in the public, the percentage of the electoral body drops immediately, indicating the instability of our electoral body. That's not true. This is precisely what shows the stability of the electoral body, and it shows a guideline of the responsibility of the authorities to be responsible in words and actions as shown in the conduct and how it makes the path to Europe acceptable. So, exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53857	Okay. Now we're going to individual debates. Dear Representative, Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53858	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. I can actually say he was very pleased with the level and approach of most of the club representatives in this House about this problem that is ahead of us. I think that a very broad view that actually includes all possible options that could happen to us in this process, all possible developments and most importantly, I think that the most important thing is that it is a unique opinion that all options and all attitudes should be under discussion during these accession negotiations, so this 2, 3 years as long as they last, because the division into the euro of optimists and the euro skeptics or realists, and I think that it is difficult to hold such a single division because most people who are thinking or receiving information, who are discussing these issues, are actually open to arguments. And now there's a question. Individually looking at myself, I can say that I'm not a fan simply. Here we do not expect to cheer, but we are expected to argue, to make arguments, to pollemize, and then perhaps those who are too difficult to understand the problems or arguments of the opposite side and those who are pessimistic will understand these other arguments that are more optimistic to say so. And I don't think it's realistic to expect a rough division. It is realistic that after the whole process, after we discuss and explain the views but to be present and those who have completely opposite views, we can then talk about whether or hope to weigh part of the population of the Republic of Croatia, or rather our citizens, that they are for the European Union because I hope that these arguments will be convincing, more convincing than others. But there will be certain areas where and who will vote in a referendum for having fixed reserves or negative opinions on certain issues that are the subject of negotiations because we are not, we are one of the sides in the negotiations. So the most important thing is that I agree with what Mr Tadic specifically pointed out to keep all arguments public. In parallel with the negotiating rhythm, the negotiation process should at the same time be introduced to the public on a gender and broad basis because of certain issues which so far are the subject of negotiations in certain areas for the time being we can declare our positions but in negotiations we will see how realistic they are and how far we can achieve from those positions and starting points of view. There's another thing that's not directly about this and that's waiting for us. It is a question of the constitutional framework that Croatia has in its constitution, the question of association where, according to the current constitution, it now takes 2/3 of the MPs and plus in the 50% plus one of the total number of voters. It is difficult now because in some European countries where the Constitution has not passed, so the most fundamental foundation of the European Union has not passed, it is difficult to expect in the present circumstances an interest which would be expressed through a mass response, let's say, in a referendum. We already need to talk about these things because it is not the two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament, but the response to the referendum tomorrow in these frameworks as our Constitution prescribes. It is difficult from the experience of the European Union and these some countries to expect this great interest because people think this way. If the Parliament had already brought the two-thirds majority of the proposal and accepted it for us to attend the referendum at all. So, if that's what we need to explain, we need to think about it all in time because it can happen that if there's no controversy, if there's no different views, the public's interest is falling. So, the more confrontations, the more arguments and the more arguments and the more, and the more, and the third, I think we can maintain the public's interest and then expect and adequately with this response to the referendum. In addition, our obligation, apart from a national committee that discusses continuously and monitors the negotiation process, is an obligation that every six months after the country's chairmanship, when it ends up at the plenary session, we discuss the journey for the six months. So, the public's interest can also be demonstrated here by quality, good and reasoned debates when the agenda comes, let's say, the issue now and soon will come after the British Presidency, so that we can also be reasoned, open, wide and use why not. We can't prescribe someone's experience because there's no situation anywhere or anything like it, let alone the same, but these ten countries that have entered the European Union have each special experience. I think that one good part of the energy should be directed or so to say in the initiative that the more we get to know these experiences, so that we do not repeat some of the mistakes that everyone probably had in the negotiating position and the ongoing negotiation process. So, I'm trying really hard to make all the options play, make it all public. According to these groups, of course, what is here in this programme is listed such an approach should and should be but the public, especially the electronic media that have the greatest influence I think we have to. We can't force them, as someone said, but we can do our arguments, the need to get to know the public to influence it in the media, to pass on different views, and only then can we end up out there somewhere I hope in 2008, who knows, we'll have one mature situation when every citizen of ours will then commit himself in my opinion too much to something he's convinced of because black and white doesn't exist. So, hopefully, it will be too difficult for the European Union and we will end this process successfully. I think this program is good. He's also flexible. Therefore, it can also be changed, and I hope that on our part, as the Croatian Parliament, we will also help to realize how much we can and as much as we as political people and party representatives are committed to doing so successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53859	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53860	Dear President, by accepting the spirit of discussion of my colleague Bebić, I wanted only one thought about what you were saying about pessimists and optimists or the euro skeptics, the euro optimists. I think we may be in danger of using this in party, political day-to-day competitions to vulgarise what is at stake and yet it is a unique process in the history of Europe so far, and I am glad that, not to offend any party in force... but most parties accept here a orientation, if I can read from how the parties are so far declared, most of the parties and in this Parliament are committed to entering the European Union and I think that the purpose of this already achieved consensus or consensus between sometimes harshly opposed political options should be explained to the citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a way, if we represent the will of citizens as their representatives, or we are, in some way, the political situation in Croatia, if most citizens still trust these political options, I think maybe we should get more optimism into all of this. Let's just say I'm convinced that the citizens will come out in large numbers in the referendum and I'm, as far as I'm concerned, a Eurooptimist.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53861	Reply to the replica, respected representative Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53862	Well, I also don't have any particular reason to, mostly agree with what Mr. Jurjevic said. I do not think that on the ground of debate on the European Union and possible differences in access to certain issues should be politicised to the extent that it is a message to the public that we do not agree on God. I think we agree on important issues. I think that here from the debate so far in, in the name of clubs it is shown, and of course there are parties that can give some problems an emphasis or greater or smaller, and in that sense we are because we would be then and boring and not all of us would be interested if we all said the same, but the spirit that is present here in the Assembly and which is evident is that there is no such thing or I haven't heard an opinion that would in principle refuse some kind of extreme pessimism or something like that. So we can be optimistic, but that optimism must rest on arguments and must be available to every citizen of ours to make it too difficult for what we hope for, which is to be for the European Union and to vote in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53863	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53864	Thank you very much. As I belong to the optimists exactly as Mr. Bebić has led them now, I would warn, in fact, that, since this is a question that we believe at least in those basic lines, everyone agreed together that we should send positive vibrations out of this assembly. Therefore, I do not think it is at all good to talk about the possibility of changing the Constitution and the conditions for supporting the referendum. Because that's actually how we send out a message from here to the reserve about the number of Croatian citizens needed to go to the referendum. Let's not at least talk about it at this stage, but let's concentrate that this strategy that we now have on the benches to make it as high-quality as possible because it's actually this condition, that is to say this tool with which we should get people out and explain to them what Europe is to a referendum in a larger number. And if that part of the work is done well, I believe, I believe that this referendum will be as it should be without a change to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53865	Reply to the replica, respected representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53866	Well, it wasn't my intention to send these messages to the public and some reservations regarding our constitutional position. As regards the referendum and the statement in the referendum. I simply reminded myself of the constitutional position that is there and which is real and parallel with it pointed to a tendency in Europe which is whatever a country has a longer tradition in referendums and similar is a minor response. We will not send pessimistic announcements, but we will warn our citizens now to count on it and to denigrate into the problem that we would do because going out to the elections and the euro, so to speak, although I do not accept such a division strictly, to the euro pessimists that they will give legitimacy to those who hope to win. He'll give his identity by going to the polls. It will give the majority legitimacy because they need to come to a referendum in my opinion all those who have an opinion on it. So I think that, in three years' time, I don't know what would happen if it were or in two or three years' time it would be a referendum, and we have to be realistic and warn that our constitutional position is like that but that we agree to positive vibrations we send but warning that as many people as we need to be in this process, follow it, and then make it clear, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53867	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53868	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be, try to be of little use. Yesterday I tested on, in a cafe across from me "Prince Mislav" what would people, there was a mixed audience, twenty people I interviewed what they would understand when they read the title of this document? "A proposal for communication of the Croatian public information strategy on the European Union and preparations for membership." Of course no one understood what this was about. And I talked about it a little bit on the Committee on the Constitution and the political system. So this is about some kind of enlightening effort, quite important and in a very convenient time. In this respect, it should be simplified and otherwise accessible to define that document. In fact, there is one thought of Camieva, which is about to say that wrongly naming things increases the world’s misfortune. There is a kind of translation condescendingness or absence of self-awareness of translators, and people working in institutions, I would first of all like to praise perhaps the best part of the Croatian public administration. It is the former European Integration Ministry and the current part of the larger ministry. However, people who work in such institutions eventually become slaves to an institutional jargon that I first met in 1983, I did a Ph.D. in Liz and Edinburgh. I went to a World Health Organization class. I brought this document, and on the first day I was very frustrated because I didn't understand anything. There were a dozen professional concepts mostly shortcuts, a lot of some numbers, and they spoke one language that seemed like Chinese to me. And then I tried to get over that jargon. The book or the seminar was called... That's what this group is trying to build now to make some school reform, and I've been working two nights and I've mastered that jargon in two nights. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] When you mastered that jargon, you discovered that there was no great sense there, so you got rid of the great self-awareness. You who, like me, are engaged in a much longer practical policy know how the Croatian people live, what the Croatian people can understand, what they want to know about Europe and how you can motivate them to learn something about Europe. You should look at Croatian tradition and try to make creative use of the traditions of Croatian Enlightenment and that is what I suggest to this group. For example, Radic's book on Europe was published in 1905. So last year was the 100th anniversary. The best part of the Croatian Enlightenment tradition was related to the traditional Enlightenment Project Brace Radić and HSS, and the best project within the project were courses, home courses organised by Dinka Radica which had three components. The first was a component of personal hygiene maintenance, elementary health culture, family harmony, food preparation and sewing. Croatian Vice-President Luka Bebić air-conditioned because Dinka Radica is unfairly underrated in Croatian tradition. It is actually such a large institution and has done more to enlighten Croatian women than we will do to enlighten the Croatian population in the European Union in the next four, five years. So that's the first tradition. The second is the tradition of Matica hrvatska. The queen of Croatia is currently a dead institution. There is nothing there, such as the dead institution and the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and different associations of writers. They're all dead institutions just don't realize they're dead. Therefore, one of the opportunities of counterpart Pejcinovic to try to revive the dead institution, the Croatian queen. Because when I talk about a jargon, you have to talk about the concepts used by partners, multipliers, positive optimism, and you really have to come to the conclusion that the purpose of the consultation on a Europe of the Croatian population is a doctrinal character that should be used for the purpose of having 50 plus one vote at the time, and our law is so uncomfortable, much more uncomfortable in other countries that we have to have 51% of the population, which will be an additional problem in Croatia. In that sense, I would like to say that something creative should be restored and those traditions. For example, this distinguished colleague Vesna Pusic spoke about some of her experiences, about education in Europe in schools, and, of course, as much of things, she does not know that this project came to life in 1991 through the European Movement Croatia with major projects of Europe at school and a whole series of projects at that level. So when we want to define who our partners are first partners, I'd make it up. This is what today in Europe is called the "erasmus Generation". It is a generation of about a million and four hundred thousand young Europeans who were after '87. years included in student change program and today are traps or that's what the English say... The future Eurocracies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia, using these two positive experiences of HSS, the Radic brothers and Dike Radice should be sent to the field by the Croatian Matica institution one 1000 or 1500 young people, but which would not be treated with the results of the survey conducted by the ministry. Because polls about what people know or don't know, they want to join or don't join don't mean anything. They're empty, no content. The Euro parameter was conducted last year by a survey on language culture in Europe, and if you look at these results, you will find that Croats are being made important. In that poll, 71% of people showed that they speak one foreign language. This is, of course, a big survey lie for Croatia, as are the survey lies about popularity in Croatia, and I will once talk about what is methodological. So we should find 10, 50, 100 young people, we should find priests. Our partners are not 28,000 institutions of civil society, but our real partners are priests, aunts in kindergartens, teachers. They're not our partners or journalists. Journalists are also little read about the European Union and European Enlightenment is completely media uninteresting. So it would be interesting to have someone fall into Brussels through a window or, as happened yesterday in the Council of Europe, vote one Declaration against the left communist totalitarianism to make it interesting. So, as far as I'm concerned, my humble experiences end with that. I was always impressed by the approach of Tanja Torbarine in writing my columns. She always imagined how her column could be understood by the least educated Croat. That fascinated me fantastically. These sentences had to be brief, simple without communication strategies, without information and without public idea, because in the sense of Habermas' division of state and citizen, the public is halfway away, not to be informed but she must be the one who informs that peasant, citizen of this one in Slavonia and Osijek and fellow Shexes and me who are in Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53869	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53870	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and the preparations for the membership we are discussing today is the result of the dynamics of the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Last October 3rd, negotiations were formally launched and this created a new phase of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. The whole process ahead of us consists of carrying out an analysis of the consistency of national legislation with the acquis, followed by negotiations on certain chapters of the acquis, and I would say it will end with a referendum. Therefore, the target group that is defined in this communication strategy is the whole population, because the information we would like must come to all those who will go to this referendum and who will decide, or vote for or against. But the objective must be to create the widest, most fundamental understanding possible of all aspects of accession to the European Union because accession to the European Union allows certain rights and advantages to be applied, but also to assume a series of obligations arising from that membership and citizens must know that. So citizens should be familiar with the advantages of membership, but also with the necessary reforms that membership requires. Citizens should be informed of the possible consequences of non-membership, the first and the benefits that citizens will enjoy individually, the Republic of Croatia as a Member State, as well as the obligations that membership brings. The public should continuously inform the public about progress in the negotiations, timely knowledge of the consequences for them as individuals, as groups and as a Republic of Croatia as a whole. It also needs to be reduced... sometimes unrealistic expectations of citizens and individual groups that now certainly exist. Messages must be accessible to those addressed, adjusted to the time dynamics of the integration process itself, have to respond to specific requirements and questions and must be adapted to specific target groups for which this information is sought. Membership in the European Union affects literally all aspects of life. That is why it is also responsible for raising public information levels on all officials, on all state bodies, the Parliament, the Government, the ministries, of course, within the framework of their own actions. More work will be done to transmit this information to those who have more work in the process of harmonisation of legislation in their own sector, such as agriculture, forestry, environmental protection and some other segments. The strategy lists target groups, which are listed by multipliers, are those persons or institutions who are public opinion drivers who need to forward these messages further to wider citizens, young and three groups sensitive to changes such as farmers, rural population, residents in the field of special public care, island residents and disabled people, pensioners and unemployed. These are, of course, groups that are harder to reach, and they especially need explanations. They need enhanced action, but what I would like to mention in an understandable language, not bureaucratic language, as it is often used. In these three segments or in these three target groups, I would particularly highlight the importance of young people, because I think they can be the best multipliers and that they can best pass on positive vibrations and information to those who will vote in tomorrow's referendum, because for them, accession to the European Union is particularly important and they will benefit the most from accession to the European Union in the long term. And our history and events have also shown that both parents, grandparents, many times are willing and willing to sacrifice something for the future of their children and their grandchildren. Of course, the strategy will be adapted depending on implementation, depending on the public opinion analyses to be carried out continuously, and will be developed through annual work programmes. The most important will be the campaign ahead of the referendum and the objective of this campaign is comprehensive public information so that citizens can form their position on the basis of timely and objective information. It is important to stress that I think we should always stress that over 50% of all citizens' votes are needed. So people need to be motivated because it seems to me that only going out over 70 and 80% of the citizens on this referendum can win a positive outcome of the referendum. Public opinion so far varies from unrealistics probably 80% to equally probably unrealistics below 50%, and it is the most common result of the emotional reactions of citizens to some day-to-day policy events, not the real information of citizens. The aim of this strategy is therefore to inform citizens on the basis of clear facts and benefits and difficulties which, for a specific man, for his family, children, neighbours means membership in the European Union. In doing so, I am sure, especially important will be the role of the media. Especially Croatian TV because it is based on its information programme according to some surveys and up to 90% of the information given to citizens. And I think that in this very process and this business, Croatian television should play that role of public television. And of course, its advantage is that it is able to reach all parts of Croatia and every resident in Croatia. And let me get this straight. This strategy, therefore, which we are sure to adopt carries with it one responsible, difficult job. The role of all segments of society, including this House of High, is important. I am sure that we will succeed in this work and therefore, of course, I support this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53871	Thank you. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53872	Thank you very much. Well, here, I'm going to try to contribute to the quality of this strategy with my thoughts because I actually only see the meaning of this debate in the Assembly to the extent that what the creators are going to do, so if you want to end up with those who should and should realize this project, therefore, this strategy, will accept that thinking or at least some of the thoughts that are being heard here. What is important for this document, it is in a certain way an integral part of a project which is unfortunately, I would dare say, one of the few in Croatia where it has been achieved significant, not to say complete, political consensus. And unlike some, I think this document is very important. counterpart Jelovac says this strategy actually determines the dynamics of Croatia's path towards the European Union. That is true, but it is also true that this strategy will also determine Croatia's dynamics towards the European Union. Since it is such a document that is very comprehensive and very wide, it seems, at least to me, that it is one of the most significant papers actually throughout this whole aklongomer of Croatian times story towards the European Union. Why? You see, you can negotiate something well in Brussels these days or in the coming months in the European Union. But if you don't know the right way to explain it to Croatian citizens, then we'll lose. We will not get that vote because ultimately the ultimate goal, we must always keep in mind, is Croatia's entry, therefore, the support of Croatian citizens to Croatia's entry into the European Union. But also, if there are any and there will be such cases of negotiation, they will not be our will and if we can explain this to Croatian citizens why this happened, which means in 5, 15 years we can even get support on that. That's why I think this document is very important. I also hold that this document is actually not supposed to be exclusively or should I say so first in the hands of politics. That's where they've heard such thoughts before. There are also in Croatia, as well as in the world of agencies dealing with this business. And maybe we should think about it. Let's just say, why don't you take or why in the integral part of this strategy, I don't know, as some kind of contribution were not examples of some other countries. For example, the countries that have now entered the European Union in this last round. Let's see a little bit how the Czechs, the Slovaks, the Poles actually recommunicated this whole story about Croatia's entry into the European Union and finally how much it cost. Because I don't think there's any need to be savings on this, but you should know about how much this whole story costs and how much it costs at a certain stage. I personally hold that this paper and this project should be a project of continuity. Unfortunately, I'm not sure he's a continuity project. Why? Because there was a strategy, there were some, some features released to the public. I must say here that I do not know whether the yellow star with the red cube is the logo of this campaign, or animation and animation of Croatian citizens to join the European Union. I don't know that. For example, some countries that are far behind Croatia already have their logo, already have their motto and already animated children in schools who, in 5, 10 years, will be age-old and go to this referendum to support entry into, say, the European Union. So you should answer that because I wouldn't want to, why is it important that this document be a high degree of consent? For the simple reason, because maybe this government won't introduce Croatia in the European Union, there might be another government, let's say the HSPs. Well, then we should actually agree that we don't have to change that strategy because that way we can confuse, we'll confuse the citizens. And that's very important. That is why I think it would be good to entrust this job to a professional agency that Croatia, with which the Croatian state will conclude a contract. You know, it shouldn't be, and you already have that kind of indication and thinking, that some of the things that are written there, like getting into public television, which is perfectly normal, are misunderstood. Let's just say it's like a story about open doors and a government campaign. And it wouldn't do any good, so I'm talking about the need to keep this strategy from being politicized in that negative sense. Because you see, I believe we lost at least a year and a half on this plan. Everywhere, in all the countries that went towards the European Union, as the referendum day approached, so did the support curve of joining the European Union. What happened to Croatia? In fact, it happened to Croatia that we have been, say, somewhere since we left and we have fallen very much somewhere in the middle of the road to the end of that road. And I can believe that it's an important reason and the Hague, the Hague processes and everything that's happened here, but it's supposed to be communicated. Because I don't know where we're from right now. Why don't I know? Because we don't have relevant research. I will not be able to assess this strategy because I do not know how much today the percentage, how much today the percentage of citizens support Croatia's entry into the European Union. And she'll be able to only evaluate herself if we're anywhere in six months, a year and then we'll have those indicators. And I'm coming to target groups. So I think we should start thinking about regular polls today. Normally, according to target groups. Well, you don't have to, I guess it's clear from communicology, the same effort won't be spent on politicians, or political parties who, without a reserve, support Croatia's entry into the European Union, and I don't know some target groups that I don't now list that are actually known to not support or just assume. So one serious and complete strategy must have certain parameters. When I mentioned a professional agency, so you have to have this to say that you would know how much that story would cost, because if you have to trust the citizens and, let's say, explain to the citizens, spend not 100 grand or 10,000 hours or less, or if you need a percentage of trust to rise by 5%, and not 30%, and then it'll be a different job. So you're missing parameters. So I think this paper and it's very important it's not so, it's not at least said some kind of solid framework that it's going to be subject to change, but I hold that in at least one of those initial acts of benevolence. We now need to know what it is, which is the sign under which we become part of this European Union. I return to these some basic indicators and I believe that we no longer have time and what is very important as we must have good ones, and I hope that the good ones are part of such a good negotiator in Brussels and who know what they want and who have clear goals as well as those who will be in charge of this communication must also be as good, convincing, if not as better as these negotiators, then at least as much as they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53873	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53874	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I think we'll all end up agreeing that this communication strategy is not questionable. I am not too much of an expert in this part of communication whether it could be a little better or a little worse I think it will certainly answer the experts, but we will all have to ask ourselves what is really true because we can communicate our people, we can sometimes lead them into a good communication strategy and we need to know by myself the most basic thing, and then all of this will be me telling us a lot easier, and that is what our benefits are and what our costs are or in some way see what we get, and what we have to give by entering the European Union. If we're going to be very clear in that part, then this communication strategy will have, too, I'd say a much greater success, we may not have to spend that much money to convince people because we'll all sort of understand that this is good for Croatia. I will speak in principle and try, let me not be resented, in a certain way critically approach this work, but be and try to be constructive that we may not repeat the bad experiences we have had so far. In all these talks, negotiations, contacts with the European Union, I must say, there were also those bad things that happened to us a year ago, two, as was the case with Protocol 7 when I said that communication was extremely bad, when there were many strangers, and even when not only did Croatian citizens have no idea what was going on, he didn't unfortunately have this high Dom knowledge of what was going on. I don't think things like that can happen to us in the future. Yesterday we discussed also the 2006 plan, and then we did the same thing, and I would say and I personally found that we had not discussed enough the implementation of the 2005 plan and gave clear answers as to why we did some things in part, why we almost threw out some legal proposals. So I wouldn't go into it at all whether it's a dispute or not that we all want Croatia to join the European Union, but I would go back to this part of what we get, which we have to give and I think in the future and we need to get a very close study that will give a very clear answer to that. When we get such a study, when it will be made public, when we will all be able to evaluate it and in some way believe that this communication will be much better. Every time we happen to have certain unknowns, every time we can't give clear answers, every time we don't know if we have free exports, for example, sugar in unlimited quantities, but we're going to have to accept some quota, it's a dilemma, people go with mistrust. I think it's some of the details of that sector that I know extremely well about, but which we have to find out about as much as agriculture in this part, which includes almost 50 percent of the total work, and that this communication with people will have to be as clear as possible, explain all these things to them, define these things, and then in that part that I think will have the most direct impact on how people and accept it without the difference we're telling them, no matter how good we were in that presentation, they'll want to hear what we have to give. If something we have to give is too great, if it will endanger national interests, if we will have too much to give in this direction, then I must tell you that I do not know what kind of communication can help us to overcome that part, I think that the most important part of it is the art in which I sincerely trust our negotiators, those who will have to negotiate those exceptions that some countries have also received that have become members of the European, but also some specificities that we will definitely have to get. We will need to know the answer in the future and very quickly, which means the Law on concessions that we must adopt and why it must have its own reprecisions, i.e. Why do we have to change the 5.6 laws in that part? What does Croatian mean? Is this giving Croatia something in that ultimate political goal, which is to join the European Union? What do we have to give? What does that mean? What have we opened in that section, what does this change in our thinking about the European Union? I must say that without such a thought, without such clear indicators, without such a study in which as much as I had the opportunity to read in the media is already being said, I think it will be difficult to say whether this communication strategy is good or not. It is good, but it must be accompanied by a number of other things that will help us to get to the ultimate goal more clearly, but we will also be more clearly in the part that concerns Croatia's benefit and the cost of Croatia's entry into the European Union is positive. I had the opportunity to see that some countries such as Slovenia did. And in the end they had this positive... And when they showed their citizens in Slovenia that entering the European Union was positive, they had the results of the referendum themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So without such very clear, exact and simple indicators, hardly any strategy would be able to convince our citizens. Well, I'll be in that part safe and sound, and I won't talk about whether someone is a skeptic or a euro realist, or if it's proud of this idea, but I have to stress it much easier to decide in which direction our citizens should be told very clearly where this whole road is leading us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53875	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53876	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the communication strategy for public information on the European Union and membership preparations has been made quality, well designed and given that negotiations for the accession of the European Union have formally started on 3 October 2005, that an examination and evaluation of the compliance of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union is under way and that the opening of negotiations in certain chapters is a priority for us to raise citizens' awareness of the European Union. Because only citizens who are properly, truthfully and timelyly informed can take the right stance and make the right decision. Citizens must know that joining the European Union means having the capacity to assume obligations and responsibilities as well as the possibility of using the rights and advantages of membership. That is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set strategic public information definitions through this communication strategy in the process of accession to the European Union, which include both the purpose and the objective, and the public approach. The purpose of the communication strategy in practice means getting to know the public with the advantages of membership as well as the necessary reforms required by this membership, getting to know the possible consequences of non-membership in the European Union, getting to know the advantages and benefits and also the obligations of membership. Croatian public, Croatian citizens must be prepared for an active role in the membership debate. The aim of the communication strategy can be to raise the level and quality of information, to create the need for information and to meet public interest and to remove misunderstandings on issues concerning the European Union. Access to communication is based on the provision of easily accessible and understandable information. Timely information on the progress of the negotiations, the removal of unfounded and wrong stereotypes in issues related to the integration process and the European Union, the emphasis on the responsibilities and obligations that come together with the advantages of membership and the reduction of unrealistic expectations. In addition, nothing less important is the language used in informing the public, which means that it must be suitable and accessible to those addressed by uniform and understandable terminology. Depending on which information is sent, the language, means and means of transmission of information must be adapted. And that's what this strategy takes care of. The communication strategy developed the drivers of the so-called public change. Multipliers, target groups and means of working by individual groups and special attention is given to groups sensitive to changes such as farmers, unemployed, pensioners, residential areas of special state concern. According to these groups, the information available to them will be enhanced. The duration of the strategy is foreseen until the entry into full membership of the European Union. Detailed work on the strategy will be carried out with annual work programmes and financial plans to be developed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. By discussing this communication strategy, we must be aware that it is flexible and dynamic in order to adapt to the dynamics, intensity and achievement of the degree of negotiation processes. Its success will depend on the coordinated action and cooperation of all state authorities and the necessary support of all participants in the communication process. In the end, I think that we here in the Parliament must be very objective in the debate and adoption of this document because we are also participants in its implementation, and we all have a common and uniform goal of successful completion of negotiations and entry into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53877	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53878	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! As far as our citizens are concerned, it is important to tell them that no one is asking us to join the European Union but that it is our will and that they are ultimately the ones who will decide. They need to know that because all those who meet here with our high school students who often come to the Parliament know that they are mostly graduates, that they are very interested in what brings us into the European Union. But it seems to me that it is not clear enough that we are the ones who want to come in and it is seen from this that most parties still want it with all the existing remarks. So, that we who wish we had chosen not to miss joining that so far seems to me the biggest European historical project, that as politicians we are aware that any servizonia of Croatia, I don't know maybe isolationism is a difficult thing because it's not about that. But, therefore, one calm observation that this is happening and that we do not want to join it that is negative for Croatia. That's why I don't think it can be done at the end of the day to say some kind of paper so where we're going to add up pluses and minuses, so if there's seven pluses more then we're going to go or eight minus no more mechanical access here, there's no bare math here. It's about one thing, we can tell the historic civilization moment that we're joining or not joining, we want to or we don't want to, and on condition that we meet some conditions. So no one asks but us if we want to try to meet certain conditions. I'm a supporter of that, and I'm not going to list what's positive about it right now. But those who vulgarize it and call for cheese and cream, I don't know, they'll soon know what they won't know that if we were to become a member of the European Union that standards and protection and environmental protection would be so much greater than we have now. So we are forced by some standards that more developed countries have already reached and that we are only interested in joining such processes. That's why I'm against any kind of simplification or vulgarization, and that's why I mentioned that it's bad when it's for the naked political purposes or for the sake of some political punates trying in a difficult situation for a part of our citizens to use and say, "Now when you get into the way you say it in Europe, like we're not here, so that's what's going to happen to you, too, you're going to be enslaved to that too." So as if there is so much irresponsibility among political options, I say here fortunately amongst the most diverse political options there is a high degree of consent that it is a positive process as if it were such a large, large amount of irresponsibility to agree to someone taking away the soul of Croatia so that it loses its cultural, national and I don't know what identity. This isn't about that. We can be victims to me if we don't get into these processes. And it seems to me that it's important in some way to try to explain it to people. My colleagues mentioned a lot. There was a talk about television. It is no secret that television is the most influential medium not only in Croatia. It's such a medium. Still... We and tradition are somehow that people prefer to listen and watch than read, let's say it so simply so much less read than is seen and easier and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I really think it's necessary for us to be there. I really think it's very good what many have noticed. Let objective contributions be made. So we're not talking about it. Let the emissions that will be made in concrete countries that have become members of the European Union, and countries are transitions and so on, although it is difficult to compare us with all these countries. So let their experiences and their citizens say that they have felt and experienced in everyday life what has changed for the better, to the worse since they became members of the European Union, and indeed there is no country that has entered and then asked to leave the European Union. We should not be talking here that we are the Mediterranean country, that we are part of the cradle of European civilization, that we are Europe. It's not about that kind of entry into Europe. Like us now, we're not, so we've crossed some threshold, so now we're Europe. It is, however, about joining a particular process that is positive for me that is taking place in Europe and that we can miss. Which we can miss, and it's not easy for them to see us because we have to meet some conditions. People are often intimidated, afraid of what might happen to us. And let's be honest and talk about it, I don't mind. But the worst thing for me is that when we pass some laws that we disagree as political options, such as the bill, the final proposal for a law on the transport of a line and occasionally coastal, maritime transport, and then what we don't hear in the House is happening, but sometimes in the press, it's like the pressure of the European Union because we have to do it for them. No! No! People need to be explained what are the conditions that we need to meet and which are not. The European Union does not force us in any way, or it would be a prerequisite, therefore, to pass such a kind of law. I mean, it's my opinion and my party that this bill is not good and nobody can be covered then nor is it that it's to say that the introduction into that legislative sphere that's waiting for us tomorrow when we enter the European Union because I think it's questionable, because it's asking a variety of questions, our fears of privatisation are not mere fairy tales but come from the experience of bad privatisations. Privatisation in which jobs were lost, state wealth, state-owned companies and so on is justifiable. The Parliament will decide what it decides. It is bad, though, when such decisions are sometimes made in public by means of God’s requirements or by means of what awaits us in the European Union. I think it's one contrast then propaganda, and for those who think it's good, it's good to get into the European Union. In my view, it may indeed be the best thing of all that the largest part of the political parties, which is not enough, because the citizens will eventually decide to agree on it at least in the basics and to see from these discussions so far that there is one such political commitment in this Parliament as well. And to the citizens, and I mean especially really, here's our chance because there, in this strategy, we refer to what is the role of Parliamentarians, politicians and so on? I think we should all really be here with these high school kids who come to the Parliament and it doesn't matter what anyone thinks about it openly because they're going to be, they're 17 now, 18-year-olds. They will be the ones to decide, among other things, whether we want to join the European Union or not? Otherwise, as far as the strategy itself is concerned, with the various complements given by colleagues, I think it is a good foundation and that it is acceptable for what should be our common goal, and that is, our goal, however, is at least for those who want Croatia to become a member of the European Union tomorrow, is that public opinion, that we should not, at the very least, hide it, to say to the public what we are for it? And what makes us think that's good?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53879	Thank you. Dear MP, excuse me before this replica, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53880	Thank you very much. Short replica, I think I agree with my colleague Marina. It's not a question of desire, will, and I would say to all of us who want to achieve that ultimate goal. However, I think it is necessary to say that the practice of the countries that have entered so far, I have set an example for Slovenia, but also for many others who have made this study. Therefore, it is very clear that the main aid to this communication strategy is very explicit. Comrade Marin, we still need to know that our people aren't exactly and when we talk about us politicians with too much confidence. But when experts very clearly define this thing with that and we communicate with them, I think it's very clear then and the possibility that the most people we can convince, or if it's not by chance that we can reassure the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53881	Reply to the replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53882	Maybe I wasn't precise enough. I don't mind that idea, it was absolutely not about that, it was about something else. In fact, I mean, it's just an effort that's desirable. By the way, who's gonna help people give in to me. It was about the other one. I just wanted to say that it's not the mechanical sum of something that can only be summed up, that I don't know about the cultural civilization sphere within which we get something that's hard to show by a number or anything. It is about entering something new in a difficult catchable sense, which will determine if we can thus express the psychological constitution of both our people and the citizens of Croatia and one cultural environment. That's hard. It's hard to write, explain. The point is, there may be a conflict of different views among politicians. I'm talking about those, which is why I'm glad that I'm not going to end up with the strongest parties agreeing on whether or not some people want to earn the punches sometimes on xenophobia. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53883	Dear Deputy Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53884	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot of this debate going on. I would just at first be kind of loving and fenced because everything that I'm going to talk about and what we're all discussing here is a relatively smooth document, and we just don't have to talk about others, but about those papers that we got from the government or the ministry, and actually, since there's no explanation, we don't know whether it's behind certain settings of any major study or some kind of research. In addition, when I read this document the way it was written and the impression it left me seemed much more that it was less about the communication strategy, so something that should offer communication, but that according to the methods and ways chosen to place certain information according to the objective that it seemed not quite accurate and correct in the strategy, that it was more of a disminimisation strategy than it was a communicological strategy itself should be. In contrast to the discrimination that involves placing or certain information on certain things here specifically about the European Union in relation to certain and targeted communication groups, however, is a kind of mutual process that ultimately results in changes in attitudes, and that seems to me to be exactly what we want to achieve, precisely if we know what the current percentage of support for European integration and the very knowledge of institutions, values and everything else in the European Union is. What I would like is for such a strategy to include, given that communication is conditioned by the relationship between communicators. So in this case, in particular, the state and the population, but it's conditioned and social context, because we don't have in any way defined here and some basics in which this communication should take place. In addition to that fence that I told you about at the beginning, it seems to me that there is too much evaluation in this strategy, as is my impression, I may well hope to be completely blamed on the basis of some impressions, customs and even flat-rate assessments of the European integration process itself, but also on European integration itself. And it seems to me that there are too few systematic and not only systematic but also deep research, and in the serious business ahead of us, which is extremely important, I think we need to move a little further away from the study of public change and go into the rights of deep research of values and attitudes. Because, if the research of public change is correct, support for the European Union, we actually need to change people's minds, change their attitudes and values, and that's much harder. I am pleased that this communication strategy singled out young people as a special target group, although all relevant research shows that young people are, in fact, the most formed both on the European Union and on the institutions of the European Union and on the very process of convergence. I warn that fact although I repeat it well that young people are highlighted as a special group, because they will still benefit the most from the European Union in the long term. And in that sense, a few remarks. First, this strategy is very different, stratified by these young people in several samples, in several different groups and generally the whole target moment in this strategy, it offers mostly the same methods for all. We have TV shows, radio shows, flyers, conversations, both for parliamentary representatives and for local self-government units and for unemployed young people. I think in that sense at least, I hope it is such an unplanned opinion that the activities themselves are divided in one different way and methods that are more applied to certain groups. Another concerning young people recently published a research that is very extensive and very relevant with a lot of comparative data and young and old respondents and attitudes from several years ago and parallel to European attitudes carried out at the Institute of Social Research, led by Dr Vlasta Ilishin, who is now called “Young Croatia and European Integration”. It offers one, an abundance of things that I don't think are appropriate, or at least I don't read them from this strategy, so only three details. When young people asked how they were informed about the European Union, it was in the highest percentage to be informed through electronic press, i.e. electronic publications, primarily Internet and media, and then there is discussions with relatives and friends and only one fifth or sixth or seventh place has books, brochures, informational lenses, and these books, brochures, informative cures, are laid down here and will be used by the ministry the most in order for young people to get to know, about the European Union. Therefore, I think that this part needs little more respect and perhaps, in that sense, to be changed accordingly. As far as knowledge of the European Union is concerned, a fairly shocking research that has been carried out this year at the graduates of the Faculty of Political Sciences has been asked by graduates, hence future journalists and politicians as many members as the European Union has. 90% of the subjects, so the absolvents didn't know the correct answer. They said there were 10 to 85 of them. 90% of politicians did not know who the President of the European Commission was, and they did not know 90% of the European Parliament's difference from the European Commission, and then they asked them where they would work, and almost 90% also said that they would like to work in diplomacy and Brussels as the most desirable job. This warns that one general method of communication that is mentioned, that flyer, the information show may have already passed the stage. Now a phase that requires more knowledge must go a little more directional, more targeted and towards changing attitudes. In this survey that I mentioned at the Institute for Social Research which was just the moment Croatia submitted to the European Commission, and we waited for that answer, the full newspaper was all about it, they asked the young people where we are now the stage of the European Union's approach. All one-third knew that we had applied for membership. There were all kinds of answers and that we are already a full member and that we are nothing at all, which warns again that we need to do much more than demagogy and some kind of flat-rate. And finally. As far as young people are concerned, there are strategies divided by young people in four groups: students, students, employees and unemployed. This research suggests that it's not enough division. This mainly holds water, but mainly young people's attitudes differ according to gender, which has shown that younger women have significantly less knowledge of both the European Union and the accession of the European Union and the European institutions themselves, so special things need to be done in this regard, as well as young people living outside the centres. Van Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek, which are in some more rural areas, so that stratification should seem to me according to these criteria at least if we want to respect the results of relevant research. What concerns me personally and somewhat, and does not worry too much about that knowledge, that is, the ignorance of the European Union. The citizens themselves in the European Union know that sometimes it seems much less to me, but it should not prevent us from really working together on this job. And finally. This strategy will make sense if it is really based on the deep results of the research and if any daily policies are devoid, because we can ultimately do what we want here, on entering the European Union, all citizens will decide on a referendum and I think that there is a need for special effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53885	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53886	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to co-operation, i.e. communication between Croatia and the European Union countries, then I can speak, for example, conditionally about some two strategies. The first strategy I would call it this, a strategy towards the outside, a pre-accession strategy, a strategy that the Croatian governments communicated, co-operated, submitted appropriate papers, talked to the euro bureaucrats, convincing them that Croatia is a place among the countries that make up the European Union and that Croatia is ready and able to fulfil all the conditions required of it. The second strategy, that is this strategy that we are offered in this proposal, I would call it a strategy towards the inside, i.e. an approach strategy, i.e. a strategy in which the main protagonists are, is the Croatian Government with everything that makes the Croatian government and the citizens themselves. I think this strategy is far more important, far more significant, that the phase... It's the last one. [[You don't understand.]] Why? Because the overall result will depend on how this strategy will be implemented. During the implementation of this strategy, it will be necessary to give a real answer, many of the answers to Croatian citizens so that when the time comes they can determine quality. It will be necessary to give answers based on the truth, on the truth about the European Union as a whole, what makes the European Union as a Union, or the truth about us, whether we are as such ready and able to accept everything agreed during the negotiations and whether we are ready to accept full responsibility as a state or as citizens in the European Union system. Whether there will be more people who will say in the referendum that, or those who say no, it will depend on a lot of what I say about the implementation of this strategy and that is why it is very important to me how it will be implemented. All these measures that are proposed here in this strategy, who will implement these measures, whether he is qualified enough, that he is truthful enough, whether he is objective enough, who will and how much monitoring he is doing, and that is also very important. As the main objective of this strategy are Croatian citizens and I tell the truth about the European Union, and on the basis of such one truth that citizens will have they will say their yes or no, but those who are supporters of Croatia's accession to the European Union, if there are no more those who will be able to join the European Union, all this effort, all of what we are doing and doing now will be assessed by vain effort, vain time, waste money and one unfulfilled hope. Those who are against, who say no, who are more, all those who are supporters of accession that Croatia does not join the European Union will say thank God. So we'll be in a very complex space. That is why our responsibility to all who are in this process of implementing this strategy is extremely great. I believe that Croatian citizens are able to determine whether they belong in the European Union and that they are also able to assess and assess how much they really are, how much together we can assume the responsibility and obligations that we are, which our negotiators have specified during the negotiations. But I'm saying the condition is primarily complete truth and real information. This strategy should not be a strategy for brainwashing but rather a strategy for education, i.e. Enlightenment, or a quality of information. I'd like to compare this strategy to, say, the preparation strategy for marriage. Let’s say that if you want to approach a proper marriage, in a marriage, it should be in full knowledge, in full consciousness, in full awareness. And then we have one rightful decision. A decision based on ignorance, manipulation, semi-awareness or, for example, unconsciousness and ignorance is a wrongful decision. Unfortunately, she did, she did according to procedure, but she had to be politically harmful and naughty. The first Croatian citizens are joined together, individually in the referendum, so if these individual wills are more than that, then only then do we actually have the association of Croatia. In the implementation of the strategy, our citizens need to be able to answer two fundamental questions. That is why the European Union wants us or whether it wants us, and I believe it wants us. But also why we want to join that European Union. This Strategy proposal discusses target groups. For those of us who come from Slavonia, it is interesting that among these target groups we have 2 and 3 groups that are particularly sensitive to change. Why are these groups sensitive to change? The farmers and the rural population. Because life has taught them that they must always seek the full truth because throughout history, in many changes and approaches they have been deceived. They are sensitive because they do not want to be deceived, not because they would now be against the European Union. So it turns out that we, say, have Slavonia when we talk about some unfaithful Toms, that we actually have the most in Croatia. There is one, a Viennar who can sing a lot in Slavonia, and it is based on that very scam. I'll bring it up now. He says, "The other Tito picked up the grain, and now he's assing around the corn." These target groups, characterised as sensitive, should be specifically approached in the information strategy. More content and much more responsible because in Slavonia and the most farmers and rural population. But we are also like the territory of Croatia for the most part an area of special state concern. So if we really want to reduce these tensions in the rural and agricultural population, I think that this population, the so-called sensitive citizens, should be approached much more responsibly. And lastly, I would also like to make a contribution to this Strategy in the implementation of this Strategy, i.e. in the proposal for appropriate measures. I think we should pay far more attention to the role of local media in implementing this strategy. I mean local press, local electronic media, means radio and television. Why? It's just that the locals are more trusted than the wider and global ones. Furthermore, in order to produce these short, in production means these contents should be made of short, well-packed content, well designed because they are easily consumed and spent more easily. And it seems to me that it would be convenient for you at least once a month to have press conferences with local media representatives. Not with this so-called state media. And I believe that the effect won't go away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53887	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53888	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm just correcting an incorrect quote. A colleague said they were the most uninformed people in Slavonia. I'd actually say they're all islanders. When you come to the islands, ask the islanders what it is, they have no idea about the European Union. And I think it's still gonna stay that way if something doesn't work out. Because they don't even buy newspapers, and we all know that television can barely watch because it can't be watched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53889	Please. And the second correction, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53890	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Piploic, said the Slavons are sensitive to untruths and incomplete information about the European Union. All citizens of the Republic of Croatia are highly sensitive to incomplete information about the European Union. I'm correcting that quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53891	Okay. Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53892	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After winning the Homeland War and the entire integration of Croatian territory, accession to the European Union must be the most important priority of all post-war governments, as well as of this government. In today's and yesterday's debates, we have already heard a lot about harmonising legal property with the European Union, now and about the public communication strategy for preparation for European membership. As we have already heard a lot of this, my debate will and will actually go towards a reminder, in fact, from the very creation of the European Union and what kind of reflections or links to public relations are. When I talk about the European Union then, first of all, I think about the processes that began back in the 50s when Robert Schuman, French Foreign Minister, presented in his speech a plan to unite, therefore, the production of coal and steel then in France and Germany. The group was then joined by Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, which established the European Economic Community. In fact, the decision to set up this community to rest on the free exchange of goods, the free movement of people was made 7 years later. Soon thereafter, Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom applied for accession, but because of the French veto, this community was extended only in the 72nd year. In fact, I see how these processes in old Europe are still slow. The communities joined Greece in 81, 86, Spain and Portugal. In many history, we are later familiar with the accessions of 95, Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and this enlargement has imposed an unsustainable implementation of structural programmes aimed at reducing development differences within this community. During this period, the communities began to play an important role on the international agenda. It was certainly necessary to preserve the will for unity that would give nations of different backgrounds and cultures the desire to transfer some of their sovereignty to the Union. So the same processes take place today, just in other times and in other places. In this period, therefore, in the second half of the 20th century in the European Union and the countries that then requested membership in the Union were significant historical facts, and here I will single out only some of them. In 78, France and Germany again, therefore, as leaders suggest the creation of the European Monetary Union or as they then called it, of monetary snakes. In 79, 410 envoys were elected to the European Parliament for the first time in a secret vote, and 87. Turkey has requested membership in the Union. And there, Turkey is negotiating accession with us today. '89. The Berlin Wall was knocked down in '90. the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has signed a contract on the establishment of the EBD, and in '98 the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBD). The accession process of 10 Central and Eastern European countries began in the year. In fact, I have cited all these very important historical facts that have taken place over the past 50 years, stressing that all these historical events were very important for the communication strategy and for this document that is here today before us. In recent Croatian history, we remember all April 2004, so avia or a positive opinion on accession and October 3rd, so the days when we were all here and we celebrated together as the beginning of joining the European Union. In all the Croatian processes of European integration so far, and I believe in the future it will be more and more important to communicate with the public. The document ahead of us, so this communication strategy has given all assumptions, purpose, goals, target groups have been identified, media for communication and participants in this communication have been identified. My personal grudge may be that it's weak... the vision and mission of this strategy which would have to be very clearly communicated, that with these sherzacs, or participants, but also that perhaps a more significant... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Analysis, therefore, to see what are the advantages, flaws or threats to this actually strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given the European experience in this area, we can easily determine that this step in Croatia still does not follow the sufficient quality and level of public communication. I want to point out that it's public relations or... as we call it, that they have not yet been affirmed as a scientific, or professional area but are still most often... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] as a kind of craft and learn through practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a problem with the proper perception of public relations in Croatia, which has largely not yet been able to emancipate from marketing. That is why this communication proposal is also important to respond to those challenges that await us in the negotiation process and choose the right strategy and enrich all existing... , means funds and media in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Through this strategy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration can actually achieve better results than its colleagues, countries that have joined the European Union precisely because they can learn a lesson from the history of those I have previously listed in my debate. The interest of experts in relations and the public in our areas has become more serious in the mid-90s, so the end of the Homeland War and the strengthening of the market economy, but at the same time we are witnessing idiodentism and ignorance amongst those sold for public relations experts. It's usually said in the jargon that these public relations experts should be someone you'd like to have coffee with, so someone who's comfortable talking to, but basically that's not it. A performance towards citizens, associations and parties who do not accept the European integration process is actually one of the activities outlined in this strategy. The main objective of the information action towards citizens and stakeholders is to provide timely and accurate information so that their views are not based on the lack of information or on the wrong information. It is necessary to provide such information so that the informed public can shape their views. They have also asked a question that will require a budget for successful public communication, but will require the wisdom of both the government and this ministry to obtain much better results for the equal budget through certain research? We ask ourselves a question at which point and in which way do we use public television and public media that are both the most effective or perhaps private television and radio channels? We can also ask the question of the government's and this ministry's obligations with regard to the state-run pluralism fund and the development of media independence? When we hear business and professional criteria about what we should look like today's public communicator, then we think it might be some superhumans or supermen, but I want to say that people with such virtues meet daily, and they are among us, their behavior may be invisible to us, but we still need to notice them. It is up to the Croatian government to identify exactly such people and to successfully implement them in the communication strategy in order to have better results in informing the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53893	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53894	Well, I was offered some statements that... on public relations and dilinthetism and the history of public relations in these areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be good to read some texts on this, so public relations are one highly developed profession in Croatia, even there are two professional associations, and otherwise the history of public relations goes back to '68. A year when "Podravka" established a department of information that was preceding later public relations, '93. is an association called the Croatian Association for Public Relations. In Croatia the exposure of the IPRA International Public... Association, so a global public relations organization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our experts have acknowledged, you have even a few doctors of science in the field of public relations and indeed public relations have long been clearly and unequivocally separated from marketing and those who know communication, communication, who know how to deal with public relations, and what is marketing, and it is obvious that not too many people who deal with public relations were involved in the creation of this strategy because quite certainly then the name of the strategy would not be a communication strategy for information but would be, for example, it would be called "the strategy of communication with Croatian citizens". Thus, the name itself shows that not much of the experts were involved in the creation of this strategy and that the name indicates that this strategy intends to disseminate information rather than be in impartial and symmetric communication with the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53895	Replica reply, distinguished representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53896	Dear Representative Mršić said here he is in Croatia... or that public relations are highly developed which is actually not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My discussions are based on research only conducted on the Internet, I can give you a clip from the website, i.e. a web address. Namely, the pyr started to develop in '28. The year of this century in America, and we were actually introduced as an exam only in the second half, means the 1990s in colleges, and after graduate studies only a few years ago. Pear in our country is still not successfully divided from marketing especially in companies and even as Podravka, I said in the early years some corporations were lucky because they also had higher budgets to successfully deal with it but I responsibly claim that the pirate in Croatia has only been alive for the past seven years. You're right... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53897	Second Replicated MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53898	Thank you. I agree with my colleague that he said that it was really of particular importance to inform the public in a timely and accurate manner. However, what I find even more important than that is the content of this information. What kind of information is that? When quality information is found alone, they find a way and even with an imperfect pirate who is often used for misinformation rather than for information. Therefore, what we can and must do on this occasion is the content of information. It cannot happen to us that under the firm they are toiling, because what is good for the European, that is the basic principle, it is good for our citizen and vice versa. So you cannot offer the content of some solutions and information as something that is good, that is what is desirable and necessary and that Europe is looking for us. Here is now the latest announcement, an amendment to the Law on the return of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule where here is the final solution to the issue in Croatia and indeed and the right now reopens. For God's sake, we must give strangers equal protection. We gave it to the consensus, even though it was the reverse power ratio that the opposition was so the opposition is today's position, but together we made that provision to be consistent with the constitutional solution. It was a joint effort and a joint success. And now we're scratching again and we're opening up something that's been solved and a thousand open problems are waiting for us. So this is the problem for us especially in Croatia that we are constantly opening already resolved issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53899	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53900	... that the basic objective of the information action towards citizens and stakeholders who are opposed to the accession of the Republic of Croatia is, therefore, to integration to provide timely and accurate information so that their views are not based on the lack of information or on the wrong information. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] It is therefore necessary to provide such information in order for the informed public to form their views. In other words, you said the truth always wins, but the strategy is very important that this communication, or this truth, is communicated in the right way in the right place and at the right moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53901	Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53902	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! As much as this looks like a communication strategy, those far more important issues are opening up with us. It opens up a situation in which for the second time, once we had it in 1991, we will show our sovereign Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia as communities of equal citizens who should ultimately make a decision on the inclusion or non-integration of the European Union. I would like to remind you that with us all power belongs to the people and comes from the people as an equal community of citizens and that, under our Constitution, they need to make a decision to join the European Union by the majority of the total number of voters. So, the sovereign will definitely decide not by means of his representatives, even if it is the Parliament. In fact, the Parliament only makes the previous decision. That is why it is very important to discuss not who is for or who is against, these are the facts. It is far more important here to discuss how to serve and how to enable the truth that must enable the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have the most important factor of their motivation to approach this referendum first and then to make it known in fact that it can define itself, which is their interest, which will talk about the advantages or which will be based on the advantages or shortcomings of entering the European Union or vice versa. And in such a situation it is necessary to finally demystify certain things, to be clearly defined. The relationship towards the European Union cannot be a debate on the European Union in a way that either speaks as if it were a paradise on earth or that it is a granola that everyone should run from. It won't be either. There is something that the real European Union is, and in such a situation, we need to approach this issue in such a way that we practically get as much quality information as possible and that must be based on facts and knowledge from the standard of average citizen in the countries of the European Union, through what income per capita is in the average population of the European Union and on how they meet their living needs in culture, sport, education, education and many other activities and segments of human life as today. Unfortunately, such discussions and such issues are not enough in the press or in the natural electronic media and they are not available in many other segments of social life where they should be, where and through which our citizens could get valid information. The second thing I wanted to point out here is the same important question, which is that this whole strategy must not be set up as some kind of agi breakthrough project that needs to be ensured to formulate our citizens' opinion on whether or not they will enter, make a decision whether or not we are going to enter. No, the other way around. This strategy must be like a strategy that must ensure the acquisition of true facts and data on which citizens will define themselves to be able to make a decision and make a sovereign decision on the future of their country, and of course themselves. And for this reason, I must immediately notice that I have been wrongly wronged by the thesis that, for example, as it says here, the main partners will be media, electronic media and press media. Who? Those strategists? Me no, the main partners are citizens. The main partners are citizens both as active and as passive subjects in the information. We must not forget that all entities as partners and in the media no matter what, and in associations and political parties are also our citizens who receive information or give each other information, but about what. Now that's important, whether it's true or not. You know, when you hear little in Croatia today, we won't be able to produce milk or cheeses, etc. That's ridiculous. Go to European capitals and you will find markets, markets and opportunities to buy different goods, of course in certain days, of course in a certain prescribed way that guarantees both safety and health, and hygiene, and technical and environmental protection. The second thing that is important is not to be used, so if you want to use the Institute of the European Union and abuse it in relation to the means, to say sometimes manipulation, sometimes pressures that try to justify the need to do some kind of activity or some kind of activity, and unfortunately for us in Parliament in a legislative activity where we are often told we need to adopt this law because the European Union requires it, we need to make this public because again the European Union requires it, because we need to amend and supplement it because again, the European Union is looking for it and what we offer to our citizens in these laws, which social relations and we regulate these laws. Are these the standards of average life in the European Union or not? If that is the case, and if that is better, then we need to explain what this is about and we needn't talk about anything the European Union is asking us to do. If we want to be a member of some association, in this particular case in the European Union, then we must meet the minimum of those standards which, and the rules of the games that apply there. Therefore, we must satisfy that part. And if we're not going to be, then we need to be able to give ourselves the answers to the consequences that we're going to have, and, of course, the generations that come behind us were the positive ones. I personally believe that entering the European Union brings much more advantages to all of our citizens, for this country than there are shortcomings that we will also meet. Because, of course, the European Union, as a form of civil society organisation and association, also has its own shortcomings, not just its own, but its own advantages. Another important question you know, we must learn and take it as a positive factor, not as a negative factor, and this is a question of the functioning of the legal order in the European Union where it is not only important to legalize something if it is necessary to get a regulated social relationship and the means of regulating certain rules of the game in this social relationship but also to implement it in the work. And it can't be that it's actually a skill to play law. That's to be a rule. The other way around. In fact, it must be a skill to undertake all that works legal order, the rule of law and to ensure the implementation of the legal order and these social relations that are regulated and harmonised with the European Union. And only then can our citizen understand the benefits. But if we have a constant act of that kind of relationship no matter what the law is, then our citizen is actually getting a completely wrong picture of it all. The third thing I have to point out is the question of manipulation with citizens and with unwarranted fears. Look, the European Union isn't asking anything of us that can't be provided for our citizens. That it must be provided to its citizens and its countries. When it is said that the European Union is asking us to privatise land, coast and so on. No, I don't. It requires legal entities, natural and legal persons of a member of the European Union to be equated to be able to exercise that right with citizens and legal persons of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, if we choose that, for example, agricultural land, forest land, forests, our coast will not be privatised, but we will give concessions with the right to build or so on and so on, then the rule will apply to the European Union and the European Union will have nothing against that rule. She'll follow that rule, but she'll ask to be leveled in those segments with everyone else. And in such a segment, the question needs to be asked, in fact, whether we are able to communicate with ourselves and with our own interest and how to object and regulate it so that we can realize it. The last thing I would like to point out in particular is one large population that is not at all covered by this segment relating to target, target groups. It is a population of our people, or citizens of the Republic of Croatia, with dual citizenship in many countries outside the Republic of Croatia, although they have a fictitious residence in the Republic of Croatia, we are all aware that they do not really reside in the Republic of Croatia. And they make up almost 10% of the electoral body. It is a large number of citizens who are affecting both the number of people who have left and those who will eventually be divided by number 2 related to the overhalf majority of the votes needed to make the decision. I think that this group should be approached in an appropriate manner and motivated to go to elections or to find out in the debates on the amendments to the legislative order whether these citizens should at all refer to this issue and have to make a statement of course, especially after we have discussed and probably pass a new law that accepts the Council of Europe Convention on Citizenship and not only citizenship but also the status of citizens in certain countries if we do so, but then we will also have to amend the Law on Citizenship and many other things that are important to us in such matters. Therefore, this strategy opens up a whole series of new issues. It also opens up some issues concerning legislative policies. Therefore, not only informing and training MPs and political parties parliamentary that they can participate in the implementation of the strategy together with our citizens' partners to prepare their best information so that they can make a final decision on joining the European Union but also require amendments to certain legal projects or laws that are in force or supplemented to actually adapt to the European Union and its standards in that segment. I, regardless of these shortcomings that I think that even after this debate that has been going on in Parliament, can, in the implementation part of the strategy, be removed through the strategy's implementation programmes, I will support this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53903	Thank you. Now we're going to a five-minute debate on registered clubs. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53904	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. The necessary preparations to enable the Republic of Croatia to integrate into the European Union are contained in the National Programme for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which is produced for each year. Successful accession to the European Union requires the ability to take responsibility and obligations from membership, but also allows the use of the rules and advantages that it entails. The same can be achieved only if the process enjoys a high degree of understanding and a high degree of support from Croatian citizens. The first communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to European integration was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in October 2001. Of course, the opening of negotiations on the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union has opened the need for a new communication strategy for informing the local public in the European Union and preparing for membership and of course it is good to work on a communication strategy daily. Based on regular half-year research into the views of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration at regular intervals since 2000 and expressions, and group research has shown that the vast majority of citizens have heard about the European Union and that they know a lot about the European Union according to their own estimates. However, research has also shown that a significant number of citizens believe that, given the upcoming stage of EU accession, more information is needed on the benefits and benefits and costs of membership in the European Union by individual sectors. And that is the most important thing that we need to achieve by this communication strategy. Therefore, the full and objective and transparent information of Croatian citizens must be the most important thing of this communication strategy. In this way, citizens will also be familiar with the negative consequences, not only of the positive and only of the individual’s view and position on how to prepare and adapt to the European market and the European way of life with European standards. The very successful preparation of both collective and individual and fully and objectively and transparent information from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will allow the Republic of Croatia and its citizens to easily overcome the challenges of joining the European Union and to make the most of the benefits and rights resulting from membership in the European Union. And also prepare to assume the responsibility, obligations, lifestyle and standards of the European Union. I am convinced that over the past decade more attention has been paid to what we of the Istrian Democratic Assembly have said and I am sure that today the Republic of Croatia would be in a much better situation. As for the communication strategy itself, the IDS Club will, as we have done so far, participate in the education of our citizens to join the European Union because we ourselves are the great supporters of the Republic of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53905	Thank you. For the club HSLS, DC, LS respected deputy president Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53906	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I'm going to express my satisfaction with the atmosphere that today is ruling in the assembly, the atmosphere of tolerance is obviously the same for all. We all realized that national interests are not lost in globalisation processes, and more likely to grow stronger. There's no division that I remember a few terms ago, so maybe even at the end of the last or the beginning of this one still existed. At one who spoke, expressed great concern for cheese and cream, others spoke again about honey and milk, and I guess that phase of disagreement was behind us, although I remember the beginning and this mandate when I asked the same minister three times who would train local rights officials, giving them quality information not only in front of access and access funds, so it took a long time to get a quality answer. This good strategy will certainly be supported in the Club, but I would like to say some more suggestions to make the implementation perhaps better. In fact, listening to the discussion of counterpart Pusic, she spoke about the education of young people. I think that education is actually the best part of this program. Projects carried out in secondary schools, which actually go under the auspices of the ministry, then at the beginning of European integration, are now foreign affairs programmes in which young people can learn a lot. There are also quizs and competitions and I joked once, but I'm not sure if it's a joke or the fact that these young people in high schools and in colleges about the European Union, the rules, the norms know maybe more of us who decide. So these are definitely programs that would be good for you to continue to implement. We're not worried about going out for a referendum. Communication is important. It would be good if she were half-a-cop with a lot of good questions. But the most important question is the availability of information about what a colleague of the HSP Roses spoke to them vividly mentioning the islands. However, this problem of availability of information other than the island is certain to be transferred to other parts of Croatia and information should be found to other citizens other than those in large cities. I must say, in the city of Bjelovar, we have specifically tried to bring such information closer to a sensitive group of citizens. These are farmers and with the help of the Ministry of Economy, certain colleges we worked with farmers, we work all winter while they rest. Lectures and workshops are organized and what I certainly want to tell you is that the interest of this very group of farmers is large both in local homes and at all meetings comes young people from 35 and 40 years of age who talk about establishing clusters, establishing cooperatives and meeting norms. However, both craftsmen and entrepreneurs should be helped. So, the economy, those who, some have already entered the European Union before official policy, and that is why I would like to suggest that the centres of excellence that are in the programme and in the work plan of the Ministry of Economy are set up as soon as possible. At the centres of excellence, those who fill the city budget of which we users live, but improve and the standard would actually live as soon as possible in order for entrepreneurs, citizens, to have the opportunity to learn more about standards and norms. With quality information, with the availability of information and of course the controversy of tones, I am sure we do not have to worry about going out on a referendum or supporting the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53907	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53908	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm still standing here with the most uninformed people living on the islands. Mr. President, the paper is 6 kn. It's 180 kn per month. People who have pensions on islands receive about 500 kn. The only time I can watch television is when there's a good wind on the islands. That's how I still think they're the most uninformed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53909	And respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic on behalf of the HDZ Club, five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53910	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club, as we have already announced, will support the Communication Strategy for informing the Croatian public in the European Union and preparations for membership. On behalf of the Club, I can express satisfaction with the proposed document, its content and quality, but I also express the satisfaction and debate which is regardless of some criticism, this debate will certainly help the applicant to further advance the strategy proposal. What is particularly important is that we reaffirmed the political agreement on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and thus showed progress in our understanding of the European perspective of Croatia and of all the elements related to this entry. On 3 October 2005, the Republic of Croatia began accession negotiations for membership in the European Union and thus put an end to a successful year marked by a large number of positive events. Last year it was to remind a ratified Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The Stabilisation and Association Council was established. The Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Croatian Parliament and the European Parliament was established. A negotiating framework for the Republic of Croatia has been adopted, and we have adopted both the Declaration and the Resolution in Parliament and established the National Committee. Today we can probably agree that up to the acquisition of membership there are three priorities for our country, which is a further implementation of structural reforms, which is a quality way of conducting negotiations and quality information for citizens and this third quality information for citizens that we talked about today and yesterday, which is important to us for that ultimate goal, which is to get citizens' support for a positive decision in the referendum on entry into the European Union. This will be very helpful to the very well-designed communication strategy presented to us by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and it is important to stress that the strategy defines the purpose, objectives and approach to information, then language and tone, target groups, participants and partners in communication, and means of information, so the communication strategy contains all the essential elements that one successful strategy should contain. This proposal for a communication strategy also brings some new elements, these are new activities aimed at the general public, so to each individual citizen, to adapt information to target groups and new funds and access. Furthermore, the strategy contains our experience so far, the experience of candidate countries, which includes all the positive experiences of similar strategies in the European Union and the Member States. They also characterise decentralisation of the process, high degree of coordination of activities between the institutions involved in the negotiation process, transparency of the process, willingness to open dialogue on the positive and negative effects of membership, timelyness and provision of information and financial and human potential. It should also be noted that target groups are well-detected. I stress the particularly important importance of young people, because they are the key to co-cipating one day the Republic of Croatia with the standards and structures of the European Union. It is precisely the young people who will receive the most from the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, and I think it is very important to tell them what would be the consequences of the Republic of Croatia not becoming a member of the European Union, because this is precisely their likely and powerful motive for them to have a positive attitude towards the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. And I would also mention the importance of the media, especially public television, and I think that exactly the European Union is a topic where we can look for partnership and understand fellow journalists because it is really about one goal that is not only important for political elite but is important for all segments of Croatian society. As far as we are concerned, and we are getting a new task, we must actively and continuously meet our voters on all aspects of the European Union, on the negotiation process, and on the effects of full membership in the European Union. We must act locally and therefore assume also part of the responsibility for raising public awareness of issues relating to the European Union. So, in conclusion, I can only say that the European Union is a thing that is not only part of the society's elite, but it concerns all citizens, it concerns all segments of Croatian society, all those who care about Croatia's future and therefore we support the government for this document, we consider it good and the HDZ club will vote for this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53911	Thank you very much. And final review, Marija Pejcinović Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53912	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. First of all, I would like to thank you for this very constructive debate and the suggestions that can be heard here, I can say personally as the person who is in charge of this part of the job in some way extremely useful and especially in that part of the implementation of the strategy, and I believe that the same goes for my colleague who has been with you and with us all this time has been there. I would like to say, therefore, that this is a framework document, and sometimes in the debates it may be wanted to get a lot more information than one framework document can have, but I repeat it is a framework and as such we hold that the strategy gives a good basis for doing as mentioned above, annual implementation plans. So in our plan to work this year that we've already prepared, there are many of these things that have been discussed here in Parliament last night and this morning. On the other hand, I would say that given the stage of relations, that it has been mentioned quite often both earlier and document, a document previously held by the same name, and I have never heard anyone confused before. As a strategy, it is precisely meant for all of us who are working in this business, to give a framework on how we are going to do it, so by definition he, apart from his formal will in the previous case of the government, this time the Government and the Parliament does not represent anything but to show that the Government is seriously thinking and that the Parliament is seriously thinking about this job and that it shows how it wants to do it. This strategy is, of course, given the stages, i.e. the degree of our relations and, therefore, a very high stage of relations with the European Union, means to start negotiations, to start a deep analysis. So this strategy is certainly more ambitious than its predecessor. There were a lot of questions about what the foundation was. This is the same in some parts of the strategy as mentioned. The basics are certainly the research we've done a number. One research we do regularly every six months, a new research will be carried out, there will be results known over two weeks as we process, and the other part we've been working on focus groups, so those of you who are experts on this area, know and from them we've gotten a lot more information, a lot more about who feels cut off, how and how we should work. All that we have collected as a knowledge through these surveys of public change, and, of course, the documents of other countries that have done similar work we have used to make this document. We learn and try to learn from others all the time, in doing so good examples of countries such as Slovenia, Malta and so on. They're extremely good at using it. Since there have been questions, I think it's Mr. Lucin's esteemed representative who asked where these examples are. So if you have any further needs for information for any question, we will be very happy to give to the Ministry such information that we have and which we actually use in our work, for insight. Why as one group is recognized by the public, it was a question last night, so it was said that the public as a whole could not be a group. We talked about the public this time because all, therefore, the general public in one part, that all the means of mass communication are addressed to the general public. They can be emissions dedicated to this or to that, but by their own definition of mass media, they are aimed at everyone, and we believe about this stage when it is very likely that almost membership in the European Union that the overall public as a whole must also be recognised as a target group. As far as the negotiating structures are concerned, there were speeches last night as if the negotiating structures weren't part of us doing the job. We are all in the negotiating structures, therefore, the only reason why you don't have a negotiator or negotiating structure in this paper as a particular thing, so they're not the ones we're going to pass on to. They are therefore us, therefore, we are all together negotiating structures which and exactly what is informing at this stage is informing about what the negotiations are. There is nothing more than what is contained in the negotiations, and the negotiations are actually from now on everything that is done in the Republic of Croatia on this plan. There was talk of an impact study. The government made a decision and we went in, so we did the last task of making an impact study. Of course, one important result that we expect is, therefore, that impact study precisely to recognize what benefits are and what costs are, which are disadvantages, which are good sides and of course we will certainly use this in information when that study is completed. As for, therefore, in preparation very, also several times it was stressed to the PR experts that they should have been consulted. I have to do it again. We had two laps, so one so-called. "brain Storming", i.e. the exchange of views in a circle in which the four agencies were very renownedly engaged in PR in the Republic of Croatia and one foreign expert who worked for us and worked for other countries. He worked in Slovenia and other countries. It was said that this document was one-way, so there was no communication. If you've looked at the means of work, most of them just have that double communication. If you take the voice portal, it's exactly by definition, so that medium that gives people the opportunity to ask the very questions they're interested in, and we answer them. There are, of course, a number of other Internets, a national forum, all of our seminars, all of our conferences are exactly and personal to me when I'm able to hold lectures, the most interesting part is the part where the debates occur, so when specific questions can be asked. As for new, therefore, unconventional means, to use artists, etc. We started it, we intend to keep working, it's a Europe 20-20 project. So we're here with experts, so with designers we're looking for their vision of Europe that in some way through this cultural approach it shows how designers, so how artists see the future of Europe in 2020. As far as young people are concerned, I think the distinguished Vice President of the Parliament has said something. We have a lot of activity with young people, but my opinion is that we can always and should do more work. We have an EU quiz, there are already European classes in some schools, there are creative workshops. We do simulations at all our seminars, etc., but I think and show the same examples that the MPs mentioned, show that we need to work even more on that plan. So, as far as information is concerned, what is the job of the designer of public change? On our part, we think that our job in all the negotiating chapters is to prepare some kind of brochure. They want to be printed or only in electronic form we will see it, but so it will be the bases that will enable and I am glad that among the MPs it is recognised. So that all of us and you will be able to use that information when you communicate with people in the environments you come from or in public media about what the topic of the negotiations is. How to communicate with the distinguished representative Mr. Letica mentioned our ancestors who we are not, some of us are younger but we also know about Mrs. Dicka Radic and the Radic brothers, etc. They went from house to house, that was another time. Today, mass media has evolved significantly, etc. Today instead of what Dick Radica did, so she walked from house to house we have these different shows on TV or something. So, we think it is not irrelevant to this direct contact, but that today's media has certainly made it possible, without therefore, to personally reach every person in the Republic of Croatia, mostly from the arrival of every home. The question of logos and slogans, there was a question, so why don't we still have a logo for this process. Last year, the government opened a commission to assess the work that had arrived, where the entire spectrum of our society was represented. So, all of them together concluded that out of the many papers that came, we have them all if someone interested in the ministry, it was not an acceptable solution, therefore the logo and slogan. Some countries have obviously dealt with this faster. We think that we need to have, we need to have logos, the negotiation processes, and we're going to go further to try to solve it. So far, we have failed despite the fact that the application was extremely large. As far as the media as a partner is concerned, they're as recognized as such. It's been said there wouldn't have been an error of interpretation. So, not to think that the government or us in the ministry that we're doing is going to impose something on someone. The media has been our partners so far. We just think that this partnership relationship should continue to develop. With HTV, we now have a show called Euro Magazine. But what we would like to achieve is for these shows to be in better times, of course, to be more visible then, to have a greater impact. As for, therefore, why did we recognize groups sensitive to change? I repeat again from so far our research, which we have done, works, therefore, research and our work of course on the ground and experiences of other countries, has shown that these groups that we have recognized there do not have enough information and therefore should pay particular attention to them. If you look at the language that is spoken, it is said in particular, so it is not said that it will only work with them and, of course, it does not exclude other groups. Why is the campaign highlighted ahead of the referendum? Because information, of course, is our permanent job. I have to say, in this case, that not all the countries that have entered the last wave have gone through the whole process. Unfortunately, most of them have only been doing it through the campaign for the last year. We, learning from others, can primarily mention Slovenia here again as a good example which has led this information throughout the process, and therefore we want to do it throughout the process, but still as others do think that at the end of the year when it comes, then, a year before the referendum that this activity should certainly be strengthened. This is what the examples show, after all, that's how Austria did it, that's how Malta did it, that's how Slovakia did it, etc. Which, therefore, will be how to communicate and what will be the subject of communication in more places is pointed out that we must be objective. I think that this strategy is more than unequivocal, so we talked about real optimism, and I think that this whole debate that we heard today and last night here is sublime that we were on the right track, so we all advocate real optimism and speaking about what the distinguished Vice-President of the Parliament Mr. Bebic was saying, so there is no division into one and therefore only Europhiles and Europhobia, or as this is more often said to the euro skeptics and the euro optimists. I think that spectrum is much wider, so it only recognises Eurofiles and Eurofobs in its extremes, but there are a whole series of different stages between it and therefore different needs to be made clear with people in such a process and to clarify the ambiguities that exist. And finally, I would like to point out once again that the government has done a lot of work so far on informing citizens about accession, but knowing that we have now come to this special stage, which is the final stage, which is the negotiations. We believe that we need more and better, and that is why we went to propose such a strategy that we believe can contribute to and enhance the quality of information we have had so far. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53913	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53914	I expected the secretary of state to understand what I was talking about, obviously she didn't realize. I didn't think you'd go... From door to door, it is that from 90% of the Croatian population, nothing knows how to withdraw at all the funds, how to motivate them, they know nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One idea already state secretary after she bankrupted the show "Good Night Croatia" hire that group to work "God knock Europe" and to work in several versions for different groups it would certainly be very effective in promoting European ideas, and it is also very cheap.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53915	I'm closing the debate. Second proposal for a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and preparations for membership. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of HSU. Madam Secretary of State, please be clear about the amendment. There are three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53917	All three amendments are acceptable to this ministry as indicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-25-0.u53918	Okay. They become an integral part of the strategy's proposal. I am voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please vote. Score. With 90 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and one against the adopted Communication Strategy for informing the Croatian public with accepted amendments.
