ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56714	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The spatial nature park plan Učka is a fundamental document which long-term determines all relevant elements of the arrangement and use of space with an emphasis on the protection of natural and other values and is the basis for the management and management of this space. The Nature Park Act of Učka was declared the area of Učka and part of Ćicarija by nature park in the total area of 146km square. During the development of this spatial plan, given the advances in technology and everything within the same limits, digital design has found that the fruit surface is larger and is 160km square. Nature park is located in the area of two counties, Primorje-goranska and Istria and includes parts of 7 units of local self-government. It is the town of Opatija and the municipality of Lovran, Močenica Draga and Matulji in the Primorje-Gorski County, and in the Istrian municipality of Lanisce, Lupoglav and Krsa. Park space... In comparison, it is distinguished by the method of use in two zones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The area of strict protection regimes, these are the top parts of Učka, the flat areas of the lush flows of the zone, the area of forest vegetation, the Botanical zoological, geomorphological and hydrological values and the zone-oriented protection that includes the space of the rest of nature park with agricultural forest areas, areas of special plan... space and other natural spaces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic purpose of the Park is divided into areas of settlement, exceptional purposes, agricultural forest, other agricultural land, meadows and pastures and this. The settlement, in the area of Nature Park, is located 30 statistical settlements of which 11 structures were built within the Park border. They are distributed in space and divided into several larger settlements, Lovranska Draga, small Učka, Vela Učka, Brest and several smaller settlements consisting of several isolated villages. The structure of the settlement is generally maintained by existing gauges. The plan provides for the expansion of construction areas in just a few cases, mainly in settlements where there is an estimated perspective of development, such as Lovranska Draga and Brest, and allows the possibility of expanding some smaller settlements by taking care of their significance for the surrounding area, which, without permanent residents and regular activities, loses its characteristics. All settlements located within the Nature Park are functionally defined as residential and touristic, with the possibility of providing rural tourism. Some abandoned settlements plan to be arranged as ethnic villages, such as the Trebisce hamlet where the old mill is being renovated. Parts of the settlement Grabova and... have good conditions for the development of agrotourism and health care activities, and older and abandoned livestock dwellings will be revitalised for the purposes of agrotourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The infrastructure in Park is such that mostly the main road traffic takes place on the D3 state road. There is a county road that passes through the area of Učka Nature Park and connects these two counties, the Primorje-Gorski and Istria County, and the edge of the Istrian part passes the railway line of the second row. At the top of Učka as the dominant point of the Kvarner Bay, a base station was built in the 1960s, with the exception of the mother’s column containing a permanent human crew accommodation facility. These are HT and HRT objects. And the plan now also provides for the location of the radar system in the Učka top location -... moved from Brgud's location on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence, which was accepted by the compromise through public debate and debate in the county parliaments and surrounding municipalities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is how you get what the state and must have in order to control maritime transport, transport in the Adriatic, other than all air traffic, with that radar system. Water supply is mostly from surrounding... Wastewater solution is dealt with individually by septic hostage and discharge, and the solution of water in Park is one of the priority tasks prescribed by this plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards nature protection and this entire area is protected in accordance with the Nature Protection Act, and the most significant building heritage in this area is rural construction and rural... With regard to the visiting system, Park Učka contains numerous values that its future use and visitation play one of the important roles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The relevant information system will be developed for visitors in the framework of the organised visitation system, new facilities for the visitor's information centre, and this is the location that the land is owned by the state, so that part will be much easier to edit. Otherwise, in Park are provided from, there are 70 entrances, 4 are main entrances, 7 auxiliary entrances, and along these entrances access to Park is possible by other road roads with 70 seats. So hikers can visit that part of the park. All in all, it can be concluded that through public debates and through this a high degree of consent has been achieved, both the professions and the local population and the units of local and regional self-government in the area. And here's the government, once it's established this final draft plan, proposes to this House to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56715	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56716	Says the secretary of state that Učka is the dominant point of the Kvarner Bay. It's only partially true. Not only that bay, but all of Istria. If a natural phenomenon is a symbol of Istria, then it is Učka which is often referred to by the Istrians as "Holy Mountain", "Istrian Olympus", which today is part of the Primorje-Gorskina County, which is what Istria has done in its own time, I dare say, injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56717	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? It's the board, the parent board. ... All right, here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56718	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection discussed the 31st session held on 24 January of this year The proposal for a decision on the adoption of a spatial plan of the Nature Park Učka, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure discussed the proposal for a decision as a home working body. The opening presentation was submitted by the Minister for Environmental Protection. The Committee discussed how the importance of this spatial plan stems from the fact that it identified a complete concept of spatial development, regulation and space protection, and also the consensus of units of local and regional self-government and the competent ministry. It is also related to the differences in the total area of the Nature Park Učka, it is stated in the provisions for implementation in relation to that defined by the Nature Park Act Učka Committee proposed to the Proposer that, over the next three months, those differences in the size of the consent, consider also the need to adopt amendments to the Nature Park Law Učka. The Committee proposed amendments to the text part of the spatial plan in order to bring it into line with a solution that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, following a public debate and a public debate report, identified as the new location of military radar at the top of Učka instead of the original plan of the intended location in Brgud. With the proposed amendments, the minister agreed. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision on the spatial plan of the Nature Park "Učka" together with the following amendments. The amendments to the proposal for a decision on a spatial plan and the following: Amendment to point 1 shall be proposed to delete from the text of the decision the data of the subject who has drawn up the spatial plan. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on spatial editing, as retaining the previous formulation would mean carrying out text, publishing the text and graphics of the plan in "The People's Journal" and proposing to edit the text of the decision in the section relating to those annexes. The amendment to point 3 is proposed that one source of the plan is also kept in the county office for sustainable development and spatial planning and the Istrian County because the Nature Park "Učka" is part of the area of the county. The amendment to point 4 shall propose a deadline by 31 December 2006 at the latest to comply with this plan of all spatial plans which are currently in force. The amendment to point 5 also nomotechnically regulates the expressions by defining that the provisions for the implementation of the plan are an integral part of the decision. Three amendments were also proposed to the text section of the "Učka" Nature Park, and amendments 6 to 8, the textary part of the spatial plan with the solutions that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has found to be the new location of military radar at the top of Učka instead of as originally defined in the location of Brgud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56719	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56720	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to express the satisfaction of the SDP club, especially the representative from Istria and Kvarner, who finally found a spatial plan of Nature Park "Učka", one of the youngest nature parks in the Republic of Croatia in the debate before the Parliament and which is a consensus in the view of bringing this spatial plan. According to our knowledge on the park-related affairs, and in agreement with the rest ministry, young professional people have been employed who have encouraged a number of activities related to the protection of the very valuable reserve of the top of Učka, whose reef forms a natural border between the Istra mainland and the coastal slopes of the Kvarner Bay on the east side. This gives it additional specificity and importance, which is why it is important to develop a plan for further use of space for the purpose of improving the quality of life and economic potential of that area in line with the main objective, which is to preserve the natural characteristics of Učka, i.e. plant and animal species. In particular, this refers to indigenous species, one of which is certainly the most famous pitomatous chestnut or famous laurenian marune. The specificities of Učka contributes and climatic features. The result of mixing Mediterranean, sub-Mediterranean and continental climates gives biodiversity, and even the Alpine elements of the plant and animal world in the highest parts. Particular attention should be paid to protecting water sources, since they are exceptional cleanliness and quality. The long-term identification of the measures of use and arrangement of the covered area as well as the activities and measures to improve and protect the environment are the basic features of the organization of the area of Nature Park "Učka". It is precisely for these reasons that it is important to plan future facilities and methods of use in such a way as not to disrupt the natural balance and to permanently protect the space, and to make maximum use of both the inhabitants of the area and the Republic of Croatia. The fact itself has entrusted the Ministry with making such a comprehensive and complex document to the Primorje-Goran County, i.e. its Institute for Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, points out the positive side and necessity of close co-operation by the central state authorities with the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. It is a shame that such examples are no longer available not only in the area of environmental regulation and protection but also in all other areas such as economy, health care or social care, where state authorities should show more sensitivity to local communities, economic operators or social partners, and especially to the special needs of citizens. At this session of the Parliament, we have some points that can identify the lack of hearing from the government according to the needs of stakeholders. For example, the amendments to the Social Care Act or the amendments to the Health Protection Act, in particular the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport, which we have just completed the debate and which is causing great public and media attention these days. Such a lack of sensitivity has already resulted in a whole series of withdrawals of wrong and unpopular decisions. But let me get back to the subject. The SDP club also expressed its satisfaction with the approach of drawing up this plan where experts from the County Institute and the Public Nature Park "Učka" visited the settlements involved in the area of the park and explained the purpose of drawing up the plan as well as the need to protect Učka. Preparations were launched in 2001 during the coalition government, and under the authority of the then Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. I am pleased that today's Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and this government have recognised the importance and value of the project and enabled it to be completed. Extensive presentations of planning documents through public insight and public debate during the summer and autumn of 2003, in several units of local self-government in Istria and in Kvarner, resulted in numerous remarks, proposals and opinions from different stakeholders. By showing all the observations received and by installing most of the proposal, the plan was given at a quality which managed to reconcile the interests of most space users and to create assumptions for effective protection and preservation of Učka and achieve a consensus of units of local and regional self-government and ministry. From the table of demographic movements in settlements that are entirely within the park, it is evident that in the Učka area the number of people 150 years ago was 25% higher than today, and as much as 5% higher than today 100 years ago. The settlements have relaxed, and the number of employees has been reduced to a minimum. Although only a third of existing housing facilities with only 283 inhabitants are now inhabited today are planned for revitalisation and the possibility of new construction would give life for another 500 inhabitants for whom the main characteristics of development and source of income would be the activities of hospitality and holiday tourism with sports and recreation facilities, as well as rural and eco tourism, which do not endanger the originality of nature. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says that everyone has the right to a healthy life, that the state provides conditions for a healthy environment, and that each, within the framework of its powers and activities, is obliged to pay particular attention to the protection of human health, nature and the human environment. Protecting natural resources is our obligation because it is a wealth actually owned by future generations. It should be kept in mind that there is no imbalance in the plant and animal world, and that is to be ensured by a satisfactory level of protection as well as by seeking to increase it, as set out in Article 152. The Nature Protection Act. This refers in particular to protected areas such as nature parks and national parks. It is also important to say that the most problems and polemics caused the need to build a radar station on Učka. However, after the engagement and alignment of all stakeholders, the location of the radar at the top of Učka was established, noting that the Ministry of Defence had committed to honour all requests from local communities, as well as the Istrian and Primorje-Gorski County. Or there won't be any restrictions on movement and devastation of space. Most importantly, the radar system has no health impairment, as shown by the study of the impact of non-ionising radiation on the environment, the eye and within the range of the future radar system, which was developed by the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine from Zagreb for the Primorje-Gorski County. The fact that this government continued to start a project last government and that the result of this shows the possibilities and needs of completion and other start-up programmes in financial and development terms, instead of stopping a large number of projects, or even better completely abandoning them, by automatically throwing taxpayers' funds into the wind until then invested in the realisation or development of projects, and starting some new programmes that should serve more to promote some new political options and new governments while the general interest is often in some other or even third plan. I think we will all agree that this spatial plan should be adopted as a fundamental framework of protection in the use of one piece of natural resources of Croatia. Finally, I have once again the satisfaction of the proposed spatial plan of Učka Nature Park and the emphasis that the SDP Club will support this document, together with the proposed amendments to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56721	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56722	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister. At the beginning of my presentation I want first to highlight several historical and geographical relations of the Nature Park Učka. Nature Park was actually declared in April of 99th, which ranks it among the youngest Croatian parks, i.e. protected parts of nature in Croatia. In September of that same year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a public Nature Park in accordance with the provisions of the Nature Protection Act, and the institution began in 2001. The most important objectives of the management of the Učka Nature Park public institution are to protect and preserve resources, to enable the public to enjoy and understand the specific value of the park, then to support the economic and social well-being of the local community, education, research and ultimately of course recreation. It is difficult in just a few lines to sum up all the values of Učka because Učka has evolved over the centuries into an extraordinary combination of natural resources and human history that deserves special care and protection. As Agent Cain said before, Istria has been very sang in the folk songs of Istria and Kvarner, and in his book from "Olympa to Učka" is described by Olympic champion Lino Cervar from Istria. Nature Park Učka is characterized by an exceptional variety of features in a relatively small space. Učka must be the only place in the world where the endemic flower Učkarski bell or one of the last European sites where you can see the impressive grey eagle or whitehead soup. In just a few hours, one of the numerous hiking trails will take you from the small Mediterranean towns of Liburnia across the forest slopes of Učka to its top of the Army, which has a height of 1000 feet. From a point of view with the shape of a medieval tower within 360 degrees you can actually see the Istrian peninsula of the whole, the islands of the northern Adriatic, the mountains of Gorski Kotar, Venice and the Italian Alps. The Nature Park organizes hiking, tracking, free climbing, free sailing, paragliders, mountain biking. In fact, all the spiral adventures, recreational riding, bird watching and adventure races. As part of the Učka outdoor project, the public institution provides recreation, professional interpretation, interpretation and education. So through this project Učka outdoor actually encourages the stay of people in nature in a way that does not degrade it, where it popularizes sports, primarily in younger generations. There is a rich tourist offer, and in a popular way there is an ecological education and interpretation of the value of Učka's abundance. The funds are then directly financed by the preservation and promotion of the Nature Park Učka. Each national park, as well as the nature park, represents one significant item of the country's natural wealth and enriching the country's tourist offer in general. Nature park is not primarily intended for stationary tourist use but is more of a element of the excursion tourist attraction of wider regional spaces. That is why the role and content of the Nature Park Učka is very important for Istrian and Primorje-Gorski tourism. It is precisely for these reasons that it is important to adopt a spatial plan of the Nature Park Učka. The task of this new spatial plan is to assess the state, quality and relevance of existing planning documentation, to execute additional... space in whole and in certain parts, and propose a spatial concept that will serve to further planers and design lines to improve the protection and functioning of the park in general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The spatial plan also analysed the spatial values and gave appropriate guidance to achieve the main objective, which is to protect and preserve the aesthetic appearance of the territory. The proposed plan promotes all forms of visitation to a thorough improvement in the attitude of visitors to the environment, raises awareness and education with a view to nature protection. The goal is to include tourist tourism in a wider developmental and functional system because tourism itself in the park is unable to stimulate such sustainable development. Tourism is considered only in nature park as a complement to Liburnian and Istrian tourism. A strict area for reconstruction and construction has been determined according to the conditions of park protection and the capacity of space has been determined in relation to the content structure of the planned tourist and recreational offer. The plan accurately established the general and urban and technical conditions for reconstruction of construction, the plan is the most closely protected top ridge of Učka, all waterways, sources and landscape... The mountains of Cicaria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The debates here earlier mentioned the actual possibility of installing radar at the top of the Vojak which in the original plan was to say according to the project "Croatian sky" in 2001, building on the Brgud Mountain, it is at the foot of Učka, slightly lower mountains, but it is important to say that in fact through this successful agreement of the MORH and the County of the coastal-goran region, a much better quality solution was found on Učka where the abandoned facilities of T-coma were installed this radar, civil-military radar I would say and thus prevented the devastion of Mount Brgud where it would be necessary to build a new road and new infrastructure. So money was saved, but a better solution was found. It is also planned to preserve and improve valuable land around the settlement, and on an abandoned agricultural area and to revive agricultural production on land around Kozljak, Lovrska Draga at the foot of the Učka reef, around the village of Mala and Vela Učka, around the village of Brest and Brgudac. It is important to point out that, for the purposes of accommodation and catering, it will be planned with, in fact, only in existing settlements. Rural settlements scattered along the slopes of Učka and Ćicarija have little chance of surviving as a settlement, so the main goal will be to stop the collapse of these rural units by introducing new uses into them, while retaining their spatial gauges and scales. With regard to newly planned recreational character programmes and various forms of rural tourism, the rural economy will be revived with an emphasis on agriculture and livestock. The plan foresees an exceptional fence... tourism capacities that need to be dimensioned with an appropriate acceptable load of space, so smaller complexes of the most categories will be built. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is maximumly planned to use sports-recreation environments, build promenades, create microambitants as an additional quality of walking tour of the area, resorts and order travelers. Special attention is paid to the organized system of visitors and the construction of a suitable visitor-information centre where exhibitions, films, lectures and education of visitors will be held. In addition to the main entrances by the public roads system, the construction of cableways from Medveja is planned from the Primorje-Gorski County and Istria County. The capacity of this cableway should be about 600 passengers per hour, and it is predicted that through this cableway the largest flow of passengers will actually be this traffic route I would say. The cable company will also have one interstate along the Liburni bypass, and the upper station next to the "Tisva" excursion centre mentioned earlier. With a smaller cable capacity of about 200 passengers per hour, the top of the Army would be connected so that it would be the upper station only 50 meters below the top. I point out that these ideas existed in the '60s, probably because of the lack of understanding of the local administration at the time, or maybe because of the lack of funds, this idea did not revive, I hear that there are already... In the village of Medveya, hotel owners who are willing to take over this concession I believe very quickly to build the possibility of such cableways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this very reason, the club will accept the proposal for this decision to adopt a spatial plan of nature park Učka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56723	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56724	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed Mr. Representatives. So it doesn't work protection. You see, back in '99. The year by decision of the Croatian Parliament, as all of them pointed out, Učka was declared a park of nature. Today it is about a spatial plan, and this spatial plan is clearly a fundamental document that determines the elements of the use of space. As I said earlier, Učka and Istrian olymp to us are sacredly worse and a little bit of pain that Učka is not one of the most recognizable symbols of the Istrian County, but let's say that this is the height of this debate that no one will take from our hearts, so no one will wipe it out of the Istrian anthem of "the beautiful land of Istria mile". It is important, however, to manage it properly now, it is important that it does not go against the will, not so much as local self-government as the local population living in those areas. I dare say that this space plan of Učka may have been consciously late for a year, perhaps two to set up a military radar facility on the Army. All right, now you have to admit that this facility will also be in function and civil air transport, that it is particularly important for the development of airports either Krka or Pula, but I argue that it was necessary to respect the will of the local population when proposing other solutions, though something more expensive, and not simply that will I do not know how to rape myself. I was in Opatija yesterday, and people are telling me that they're just coming out of some agreed gauges when it comes to this military-rading system. Why is it important to respect the will of the local population? Respecting the will of the local population is important and should be done as it did after sending a clear message to the government about the privatisation of Liburnia. For what reason? Which, without dialogue, gentlemen, with this local authority, you can't implement any other intentions, whether it's about gasification, whether it's for example. This is about the construction of an oil terminal, the modernisation of, say, INA facilities in Rijeka, etc. I am pleased to be treated in this material among others by Cicarija or part of Cicaria. I quote in this regard: "Cicaria is one of the most beautiful" here states "e.g. forest and pasture economies". The forest is certain that the pastures are very difficult, although it is not here, Mr. Fijolic, after buying the genetic centre above Nugle, does not start the pasture economy, I'm afraid no one will. Before the war there was this Cicaria, so that part of that mass was inhabited, somewhere between 20,000 and 30,000 sheep. There's only a couple hundred today. Before the war, more than 3,000,500 people lived in the country, today only 390 people. There was a war, only in one day there in 44, if I'm not wrong on 10.8th in Ćićarija, there are a thousand buildings, which are residential, which is economically unknown that Ćicarija actually was, we often call it another Kozara. What didn't move then in the Partisans ended up in concentration camps. In 45., new territorial divisions are established, links to Trieste are lost, and 50 g of the population of Cicicaria, meaning over a thousand, two of them are moving into deserted cities along the western coast of Istria, or Rijeka, which had previously left because of the exodus of the Italian population. There is no Mr. Rebić here to say that it is also part of our history, namely Istrian and equally Croatian. But let's let it go now. Cicarija is empty today and in due course it will certainly be even more empty. Everyone up there who lives will soon have water, everyone already has asphalt. There's no one clear who isn't unemployed, but unfortunately, people don't. But it is important that plans today be brought into line between government plans and local self - government. Today, Ćicarija is probably the most valuable area because of the zone, or it is the highest quality of the sanitary protection zone of drinking water and should be preserved. But if local self-government, for example, wants to build wind power plants in some areas, regardless of what I have some personal reserves, then let's listen to them because simply some small municipalities like one Lanisce that shares a part of that nature park won't be able to survive with their own no more than a million kuna budget revenues. Nature park Učka diloje Opatija, Lovran, Moščenićka Draga, Matulji, Laniste, Lupoglav municipality and Kršan municipality. At this point, however, only two hundred 86 inhabitants live in the park of nature, and this is clearly the horror of the elderly population. By 2015, demographics predict that the number of 2 hundreds of 86 residents I counted would be conscious of these data or would fall to only 117 residents. And now, what do you make of it? The inhabitants clearly sell theirs from World War II burning ruins. I can say that they achieve decent prices or prices, but when I'm at it and here they define the boundaries of construction zones it would be good to ask only the population and not just local self-government what they really expect, or what they want from such a plan. If you want to return someone to Učka, and this is not indecisible first of all because of large or strong industrial centres starting from one river, Opatija, Lovran, Buzet, Pazina, Labina. Yesterday I was simply in Matulja place in Croatia, which may have the fastest development. So, if we want to get people back to Ucka, then be careful, we have to let those same people have something special to do with their natives there and build them. I am sure that this space in ten years will be financially, so to speak, incomparably more attractive than today, no matter what demographics predict that only 117 inhabitants will live there in 2005 in that part of Istria or the Primorje-Gorski County. I'm saying it's the only way to valorize that space to give people a chance to do something there. Not that they embellish that space, they certainly won't, so those who honestly identify themselves with space do. However, we must simply let them build something. The one who insulted that space was the authorities, the authorities who had set up television and antennae there, not taking care of that space, not taking care of history, not taking care of symbolism, not taking care of the wishes and expectations of the citizens. I agree that modern development requires that TV antennas be located there somewhere, that some radar be there, that there or in that space there are repeaters but there are no peaks I would say no mountains in the Republic of Croatia which is largely devastated from the top of Učka. However, today we are where we are. Unfortunately, no one's considered it in the '70s, but no matter what, I'll say it one more time. You should let people build these little family pensions, maybe somebody pick up a little workshop, there to build for their own needs that cottage. I am now talking clearly about the domicile population, and we simply must not deny that population. Now that a man has money, I think he would look to this plan for the construction area's border and invest in it because it will certainly show up at a relatively near time with an extremely good investment. But what's certainly most important when we talk about Ucka, when we talk about Ćicarija, is to preserve the water springs. Liburnia got water from Učka. It is a shame to say that villages in the hinterland of one of the most developed cities, a city with the longest tourist tradition, such as Opatija, Lovran, Mosčenićka Draga still have no water and I don't understand on the other hand that simply in this area it may have been built without counting the Matulje 50km of water while in the same period in the area of the Buzet water pipeline itself, 600km of water installations were laid. Then there are the plums of the river Rasha, a plum from Preluca to Plomin. There are a dozen sources of Mala, Vela Učka, Medium water, Beautiful, Bukova, Leskovac, Griže etc. It certainly means what Ucka has most valuable, clearly with a few good restaurants. But what's most interesting is spatial development. Most of the time, in this plan, everything is kept in existing gauges. The possibility of expanding the settlement is planned in Lovranska Draga, Brest under Učka, Vehicles, Baričko village, Dolenja Vas and... So, you don't now predict the enlargement zones in these other settlements that I don't now list all these toponyms from Andretici, Jurcici, Sucici, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As one of the specifics I mention it because the water supply of cancer to all of Libya is particularly these altitude areas, and that de facto Croatian water cannot be included in the realization of these needs of the local population. It is something that is incomprehensible to me, but you should bear in mind the fact that the population of the particularly high parts of the water are still receiving today from neighbouring Slovenia. The fact that this is so clear for the functioning of good neighbourly relations is, it is no problem, however, that the heights of that Mosčenićka Draga, Lovran, Opatija or Matulji still do not have water or in 2006 do not have water. It is simply a matter of otherwise the cross-border relations between Croatia and Slovenia in these areas are what we can only wish for. I can see that Mr. Shirac will correct me, but just yesterday I was at the head of Matulji municipality. They invested in ten years of these modest budgets somewhere around 35 million kuna, and they may have received 2 to 3 million kunas as aid under the allegations of Croatian Waters. I claim that's insignificant. That it's even humiliating. Keeping in mind the means for these purposes are directed from Croatian waters to other parts of the Republic of Croatia. The final annual budget of the Croatian Waters is over a billion and 200 million kunas, and the end of the money was eventually given to droplets, and virtually no more significant investments came. Especially what needs to be welcomed, however, is the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area for the Municipality, let's say, Matulji, whose income was doubled and the basis of which they clearly did everything they had done. For the end of fire protection, this must be the most endangered part of Istria, or the Primorje-Goran County, and then so much should be hired by the forestry industry to simply with these cuts or as it is called to preserve space from possible arson. Here I am in some way trying to tell this story about Učka, Ćicicarija, through Učka, Ćicicarija and the story of Istria, Liburnija, but what is certainly the most important thing we need this spatial plan. This protects Ucka, and this plan should surely be welcomed as such. Unfortunately, people won't go back to Cicarija as much as they tell me about it, which doesn't mean that in 10 years, that space won't be financially and in any other respect much more attractive than it is today. To end, gentlemen in the Government, do not in the House respect the future will of local self-government if any important infrastructure facility for the Republic of Croatia should be placed in their space because without a sincere dialogue between the local self-government on the one hand and the state itself, investment itself will come into question. Here's a wink. It's been 15 minutes. And the IDS Club welcomes the adoption or adoption of the Spatial Nature Park Učka Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56725	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56726	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Cain stated in his presentation two large incorrect allegations: First, that this spacious plan of Učka Učka as a mountain is not classified in Istrian County which is absolutely incorrect. Here I will quote a copy from, quote from this Space Plan where it is clearly said that Učka, Učka's premises distinguish one and the other County of Istria-Primorje and Istria County and that it includes 7 units of local self-government, 3 in Istria, and 4 in Primorje-Goranska. So these are facts that no one can deny. Not particularly Mr. Cain who lives in the area. Other allegations, that Croatian waters did not support the development of water supply infrastructure in these small municipalities located on the Istrian side next to Učka. Of course that's not true. The following should be said: that the program of Croatian Waters I'll just say two sentences. [[I thank you, come on.]] It's in line with county, county and county services. Therefore, the gentlemen referred state resources to others... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56727	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56728	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the motion. There's almost like some chorus when it comes to making a spatial plan of any Nature Park, either the National Park can always draw one gene or a finding that's common to all. And that's that almost by saying and everywhere they actually do not exist, or the plan doesn't recognize them, or they don't even appear in the perspective. So almost explicitly in all the spatial plans of national parks, the parks of nature of anything that has a feature of protection and one small rhetorical question arises: and from who do we protect it from? Who are we protecting? Could be the exact opposite of the thesis in areas like this where you have only 100 or 150 inhabitants who are originally living in that space for which we bring a spatial plan. Well, I think they're in a position to protect them along with the landscape. They're part of the landscape. And in the projection, you say there's no predicting a demographic process that can alleviate the current situation. So we predict other words when this little age dies no one else will be. So isn't it really a function of nature protection, so isn't it a function of adopting any spatial plan and that applies to all governments? Same. So to protect the man, to help him, to try to organize himself if you want to and return to those spaces. So for whom will this place be protected on the day that there are no more men on it? When there's no host population. So did you see national parks in the United States they encourage in their projections, the plans of people to be true to so-called. The American, artificial way back so they work there, they have three shifts. But mostly when you enter their villages that were once inhabited, you can find indigenous residents, under the quotes "autochtone", but indigenous to you visitors who thus earn. They're dealing with what's-his-name. They thus create a cultural picture of what once was and thus contribute to the preservation of that resource. At the same time, the economic activity of visiting, tourism and everything has one full purpose. So it doesn't make sense and there can't be a single spatial plan to be on its own, to protect space, and at the same time it says, very clearly, that the demographic image doesn't seem to look better. No matter how much it can be written in one serious document, the demographic image will be worse than it is today. And today it's so bad it can't get any worse. But I mean, but it's, I say, almost like a chorus. And usually on target limits, the purpose of the surface, just domiciled which is a little bit anyway. They are usually "meta", under quotes again, in spatial terms, the restriction refers to them. They're the ones that need to be put in line. And they are in such order about the 1960 ’ s and 70 ’ s, and it is all in God’s hands. Therefore, this principled remark that I say refers to all of our documents that we bring in terms of protection. And always the same problem. And the fact that this is happening is, go from the spatial plans of all national parks, you will see that every year the population decreases. Every year. It's statistics, we can't even correct false allegations when they're correct. Therefore, it is evident, and on behalf of the HSS Club, I welcome the adoption of this spatial plan because it is good, because it is good to bring it, but I am obliged to warn that it is necessary and necessary to take more care of the people living in those areas. Without these people and that part of the space has no quality. Without those people, those cultural virtues you've seen or seen in Učka's premises, without those people there wouldn't be. We couldn't discuss the spatial plan today. Therefore, one national park consists not only of natural beauty, values that are unquestionable. It also consists of people who have preserved perhaps, perhaps in a better way than we will preserve it in the next decades through the spatial plan of this same space. Maybe they've saved him better than we'll have if someone reads these documents behind us in about 100 years and asks him how they kept it, so it wasn't exactly the most ideal form. So, what am I talking about? I'm talking about it being necessary in every spatial document to have certain protection. I'll call it "indigenous identity." That identity must not be ignored. He must find places in an educational approach, we must find in every spatial plan the means, ways and time to get acquainted with where we are coming from. And to get to know each other, there must be authentic people who will talk about these values. So we have to put education first. We need to educate people to devote themselves to that space in those places. And that's the only way to preserve the integrally all the values that that space has. Furthermore, what's very important? There are more participants in that space. From the Croatian forests, from Croatian waters, from local self-government, from the central state administration. Often, our plans, and especially the rules on ways of handling, are completely out of line. And then when this document is brought, and we have brought other similar documents, then we can only see that there are very difficult differences between Croatian waters and Croatian forests, compared to positions in local self-government, thank God here they are quite harmonised and that is good, I welcome it. But I point out the examples so far that it just happened that after the spatial plan was adopted, the spatial plan would still be captured. For the reasons that other institutions, state administrations, other bodies have already laid down certain rules of conduct and rules of play in accordance with their laws. I will only refer to one known fact-finding case, Kornati National Park. A spatial plan has been adopted, but you also have a waterway that passes right through the spatial plan, through the national park. It's not consistent. How do you behave, how do you not act? And you have mostly one two-authority in space, I'll call it that. I think that these two-authorities should be avoided because they, these two-authorities, open the door to all those who are not well-intentioned and who want to position themselves right at the position of the two-authors, regardless of who they are. Thus, the spatial plan is a living document that serves not to exist, that we bring it, but that man feels better and better, and nature is safer. If there's only a spatial plan that we can discuss here today, since this public interest is probably a little on the other side today, on the side of sports and skiers. Unfortunately, Janica doesn't ski, for those who don't know, but no matter what, she's going to ski another time, no matter what, I think we need to try on these strategic spatial plans a little bit wider, and the government that we should... What's this about? It's clear to me that the ministry has narrowly looked at its matter very correctly and well made a spatial plan, along with all those participants. However, as in other processes, we happen that some other ministries that should have followed the adoption of such a spatial plan with all participants have never really integrated enough to get a full plan that can be implemented in life. What should this plan make possible? It should enable these settlements located in certain municipalities, whether in Primorje-goran or Istria County, to be dealt with on the basis of a spatial plan, if possible, by some economic activity that will keep them living there, which will create in the next 5.6 years to eventually return young people, to encourage new families to take certain measures of social, social, tax policy into that area and that they all together in the next 10 years form that it is equally attractive and in tourist terms. The fact that this area is located between a tourist paradise such as Opatija and the Opatija Riviera, on the other side extends one tourist region which we can tell the leading region or was leading in Croatia, Istria. Thus, it is God-given that this landscape can become a synonym in some way, in which sustainable tourism should be developed, how to position sustainable development without harming nature, but not to throw it under the feet or the man who lives there. So we have to position the man and set him up to be a participant, because without him, neither this nor any other process will be successful, because we do all this together for the sake of the people, because of the man who lives there. So I'm not saying this to say criticism or to say that we won't support this proposal for a spatial plan. We will support him because he is an expression of the interest of people in terms of local self-government, county etc. However, we must mention, and the government must agree in some way, that it must take responsibility for the implementation of the law, that when we discuss what year we say that we have done something good and that, based on this spatial plan, 50 people have returned there, that certain tourist enclaves have been created that are expanding, that sustainable development has been created which, based on a good geo position, has found its place, that new jobs have been opened, that the Istrian County and the Primorje-Goran County have been created because of this nature park, been further supported in strengthening their tourist base. Therefore, the feasibility of this and the feasibility of each other's spatial plan is one of the fundamental elements. What I like to call it, interested in tourism viewing things we must notice here is that it is not clear enough, I almost would say shyly, timidly emerging certain forms of tourist viewing of this space. Tourism is no longer a drinking inn, a sleeping room, it's a way of life. It's a cultural element, an upgrade that civilization has achieved, and it has to be presented in this way. These stereotypes that appear in the documents are viewed with the eyes of experts, ridiculous. I'm not going to use any other expressions for that, but today try to explain tourism as 30 or more years ago simply isn't necessary. Tourism is something else today. He's not in harmony with nature today, as much as he's his first prerequisite. He is not in harmony with man, but he is his executioner. He is not in line with industry and other forms of economic activity, of course not because they all make tourism together. Tourism is not an activity, it's a lifestyle, it's a market that can absorb almost anyone who can produce and anyone who can sell. It is therefore an ideal basis not only for this space but also for Kopački Rit and Slavonia and for anything. Unfortunately, we don't understand it very much, and even when we understand it, then we don't know how to do it so that those who understood could do it. Therefore, implementation is, with good conclusions, one of the most important elements that the law should be in the function of man and in the function of development. I firmly believe this will be my exposure and the club's position to support this bill, but we're telling the government to try a little clearer, more precisely and in some way more concrete function of the man who's in this and in all other places.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56729	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must hear one request from the gallery and welcome the students of the Rijeka Trade School and their teachers. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56730	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here after three days of confrontation in connection with the previous point, we now have a spatial plan ahead of us and I hope we agree on a lot of things. I would like to begin by saying at first that the Croatian People's Party Club will support this spatial plan and what has already been said I would like to underline once again, that this is a good example of cooperation, the vertical cooperation of state authorities, regional self-government and local self-government, of course together with public enterprises and all other bodies involved in the adoption, i.e. in proposing this spatial plan. The spatial nature park plan "Učka" is a fundamental document which long-term determines all relevant elements of the arrangement and use of space with an emphasis on the protection of natural and other values, and as such constitutes a basis for the management and management of that space. In this part of the Croatian People's Party club there is no objection. However, the spatial plan clearly clarifies the values of this space and sets general and specific objectives for the planning of space. This spatial plan, however, would be used to suggest that this Assembly, apart from preserving one copy of the original spatial plan, could and should do much more in the area of sustainable development and conservation of landscapes. I'm not going to repeat parts of the spatial plan itself, I'm not going to repeat what's already been said, but I'm going to touch something that we've all skipped by now. Every year, my colleagues and colleagues in the assembly have the opportunity to hear dozens and dozens of different reports, and even at this session, it is no different. But when an international convention is ratified in the Croatian Parliament, and we do so regularly, on its implementation, on its installation into everyday life, we have no reports after 5 years or after 10 years. That's not good. It's certainly about this spatial plan, you'll see what it's about. In 2003, the Croatian Parliament ratified the European Convention on the Area. A year after that, this convention came into force, so what have we done in the past year and a half? In the spatial plan of Nature Park Učka landscape is mentioned as a special value. That's why I'm undermining it here. Unfortunately, I haven't found it in my own spatial plan, but no other spatial plans often mention it. Namely, contact with this European Convention. I suppose the profession respected everything stated in those conventions, but colleagues and colleagues, did we as politicians maintain and do everything that this convention expected us to do. Namely, we were obliged to install into our legislation all the provisions of this Convention, and then we should have made it possible with such a framework to act within that framework. I'm saying this because a month ago I was with our delegation in Strasbourg and there we are on the Committee on Environmental Protection, Mr. Banac is a member, I'm his deputy, got one table in the framework of a report. I will give it to the Secretary of State, that table, where our country is undermining itself as the only signatories country and a country that has ratified the European Convention on the landscape that has not realized any of the five pillars, or tasks mentioned here. It is about the legal definition of landscapes, the indication of articles provided for in this Convention in the Constitution, in specific laws or in general laws, etc., etc. We are mentioned here, unfortunately, that we are at the very end of the tail, which is certainly not good because I think it would be very helpful both to the expertise of both local and regional self-government if this framework were to be correctly and clearly defined. If this is a communication failure, if our ministry hadn't provided the requested information, and for this reason, part of this table was incorrectly presented to the board, I would ask that it be checked and that the correction be carried out as soon as possible. Because it's kind of embarrassing when someone calls you at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and here we all swear, clearly, in the same principles and in strict respect for environmental protection and everything else that has been mentioned today. Here, I don't think I should go deeper into this matter, except for this detail that I thought was worth saying here again because I already said, colleagues and colleagues. Only the Council of Europe has drawn up 198 conventions. Our Parliament has ratified a large part of these conventions. We have no record of what we have done regarding the application of these conventions to everyday life. I think the government could prepare a report like that in a short time to see what else we do because we are the ones that ratify these conventions, we are the ones who are clearly then, I am counting, at least co-responsible to realize them. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56731	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. I'm sorry, Silvano.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56732	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, for us in Croatia, the party of pensioners has no dilemma that Učka has special emotional value for the citizens of Istria, Istria, but also for the Primors. And no matter what she did to build the tunnel, she was a demanding natural obstacle, Učka, she always connected, not separated. And as the peninsula of Istria extends to 3 countries that we hope to get rid of European integration, so the flow of people and goods will be even better and a new territorial identity will be built, so the Park of Nature Učka or Učka gora as in Istria is called our largest mountain, 396 meters high, and from the tower we stand at a height of 1,000 meters, which I am correcting my distinguished colleague, Meden. So, this Učka gora of ours is being administered to two of our counties that I want to believe, I believe, I believe, that I am equally convinced that they want to preserve, and it must not even as a symbol be the subject of territorial-political domination. I'm considering what we're discussing today as my own kind of inventory of the situation. What we have, what we must preserve, what is forbidden to do in that space and what is allowed to do in this space. So, a kind of inventory of the entire state in space. And I don't expect this material to give development guidelines, like tourism. That this material will give you as much as an observer of fire watchers in that space, nor do I expect this material to tell you exactly where the average fire protection will be. This must be said by some other institutions, it must be said in Croatian forests, it must be said by the fire community, but all of this must be an integral part, i.e. it must be the content of a new document that will come out in the second phase, which I think is the Plan for the Management and Development of Resources in Učka Nature Park. I see this as a first step, and as a matter of fact, the first very high-quality step, a step towards revitalising the entire territory of Učka and the wider area of Ćicarija because they are naturally bound. We in Croatia are strangers to pensioners sincerely, truly sincerely impressed and satisfied with the scope and expertise of the proposed material as well as during the coordination in the public debate. This material, apart from its normative value, has its own educational value, and I will personally keep it permanently. We dare say that if all the proposals that come into the parliamentary procedure were to be approached in this way, the public rating of both the Croatian Ministry and the Croatian Parliament would certainly be higher. We will vote in favour of the decision to make a spatial plan of Učka Nature Park, but we also support all amendments given by the parent board and we believe that the proposer will accept them. And all in order to protect our regional identity and historical pride of the people of Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56733	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56734	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. In accordance with the Nature Protection Act for protected areas in the Republic of Croatia, which have the status of national parks and nature parks, special spatial plans, etc. are developed. spatial plans for areas of specific characteristics. Such plans are adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Ministry of Nature Protection. Nature park is a natural part of the special beauty and uniqueness of international and national importance, economic and plan-oriented development with a more prominent tourist-recreation function. The Učka Nature Park is one of the youngest parks in the Republic of Croatia founded in 1999 by the Nature Park Act Učka and managed by the public Nature Park Učka, which began at the end of 2001. The spatial plans are one of the fundamental means of protection, maintenance, arrangement and promotion of protected areas. The creator of the spatial nature park Učka and the County Institute for Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, and this is a complex business, and I note that just now the spatial plan of Nature Park Učka could be the first adopted spatial plan in the category of spatial plans of nature parks in the Republic of Croatia. The spacious plan of the special features of Nature Park Učka document is of exceptional importance both for the park space and for the institution which manages it and represents the user of the area of the park with special legal powers and competences. It is a basic document that long-term editing the purpose and use of the Učka Nature Park spatial plan and harmonizes the interest of all their users. The designer of the plan managed to reconcile the interests of most users of space and park resources, and above all created valid assumptions for the implementation of the plan and to achieve more effective protection and preservation, and for the benefit of the principal residents of the local self-government units both present and future generations. The objectives are the spatial plan of the protected area, e.g. Nature Park Učka preserves natural features, natural appearance and ambience in the original state. In terms of protection, the basic form should be the general protection of the natural environment and the preservation of larger areas of natural and anthropogenic landscapes from devastation and excessive changes to manage use or construction. One of the important functions of nature parks is to serve as an ecological base or a fortress of fauna and vegetation threatened by urbanisation, hunting, agriculture and forestry. Unlike regional plans where protection of natural values is not a primary objective but only to many objectives, regional plans are highlighted developmental, the spatial nature plan is limited, but not in terms of general or exclusive prohibitions, but in terms of limiting to an acceptable extent and orientation. Since the tourist-recreation function in the nature park is, in some ways, dominant in the design of the spatial plan is more desirable for the entire programme of tourist-recreation facilities. Tourism here is not strictly viewed as how much free recreation is in the natural environment, so the whole program in space is more determined by locations than by areas. Zoneding within the nature park here will not always appear as a basic instrument of a spatial organization except for special parts, reservations within the park or for settlements. When it comes to settlements, their inclusion in nature parks means in a certain way the possibility of development especially if it is in the function of tourism, e.g. rural and rural tourism which includes the inclusion of visitors in traditional lifestyles, mastering older crafts, participation in domestic customs, storage, consumption of domestic food, etc. However, any construction in the nature park should be carried out in the process of taking place of location and building permits, a special procedure with regard to the protection of nature. The task of the spatial plan is to define the use of a protected area in the way in which the nature park's tasks, i.e. those functions of space for which it has been declared protected. In nature parks this means protecting and preserving larger areas of natural and anthropogenic landscapes from the aspect of natural, biological-minarological, cultural and social significance. Another important aspect of the preservation of space that is achieved by spatial plan and determination, way and acceptable measures of recreation in nature park tourism. They primarily have non-aggressive forms of recreation, and in tourism those forms that are in the function of learning the total values of space and which can bring profits to local communities. The fact is that only with good spatial plans can be provided professional and efficient management and management of protected areas. The reading of the provisions of the proposal for a spatial nature park Učka highlights the fact that they are subordinated as much as possible to preserve the attractive value of the area through clean and preserved nature, cultural values, but also to create a framework for the development of the most prospective activities in the first order of selective tourism and ecological agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56735	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. We're moving on. On behalf of the club five minutes more. I apologize, the esteemed representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's just a few words about Ucka Nature Park. We are a country with beautiful natural resources that we must protect, and at the same time we must not stop the development of an area. The spatial plans should be the basis for space management and management if we assume that they are well done and in good interest, and not later turns out that some lobbys had their own interest in it and that the plan is adapted to them. I hope and sincerely believe that in this case it is not, and in order to be sure, I will lay the basis for further discussion that the ministry is being manifested around outdated radars, not to say old irons, which have been imposed on citizens of this region, and thus the ecological stability of Učka Nature Park has been disrupted. Because the radars on Ucka, or the plotted locations that were, and that was Brgud, and the fact is that the works today started at another imposed location, i.e. the soldier who becomes a telecommunications device zone, it's a civilizational shame for us because the citizens of the Liburni area have collected 8 thousand and 800 signatures against the Ucka radar and their will should be respected. And not to say that citizens have also protested against radar, and I wonder if the environmental interests are the priorities of the Učka Nature Park and are the priorities of the entire Liburnian region with the tourism activity as a priority of all priorities, and, above all, that is what is meant by health tourism. On the one hand, when we look, some are allowed everything and others are bound by many restrictions. In the economic segment of Nature Park Učka you can say that Učka space is protected. It is known exactly how it can be intervened in space or what is possible and what is not. Nature Park provides modest procedures in space. It is mainly the revitalisation of existing catering and tourist facilities, sports and recreation facilities, hiking homes and hunting houses and some economic facilities that could be intended for rural tourism. What triggers public attention is the construction of a cable car that is in the graphic part of the plan drawn from Medveja to the top of Učka and in the text section leaves the possibility of identifying some other corridors, which is commendable because it opens up the possibility of realising very old plans and projects that went towards improving the tourist offer. That the sea in a very short time could reach fresh mountain air. The Učkar forests are divided into strict and moderate protection zones where it is indicated that at least the procedures will be allowed at the top of Učka and on the bottom areas. The only thing we still have left is that in existing settlements we allow the reconstruction and construction of smaller objects that are directly related to people who live there or who are owners. We must not forget that owners between 40 and 50% of Nature Park are Učka private persons. For example, large and small Učka in the area above Lovran and should not be excluded from the decision-making process and should also not be excluded from the management and management of Učka Nature Park. It seems to us that the Administrative Council of Nature Park Učka should also expand for one representative of these private owners, by owning 50% of Učka Nature Park. I've also given some amendments to the procedure. I hope the ministry will take them into account about the possibility of another route of cableways leaving the plateau near the entrance to Učka road tunnel from the Quarnery side to the top of Učka and also toss out the proposed railway track that would pass through Vela Draga Canyon. And what may be important to mention in one article is the concept of a cottage that I think should be thrown out because the provisions for implementing the plan explicitly prohibit the construction of residential buildings outside the building areas and it is not clear why the above point mentions the concept of cottages. In fact, I do not believe that new construction should be allowed outside the building areas except those which are explicitly permitted to be implemented. And most importantly, the provisions for implementation other than the possibility of renaming existing facilities for the needs of the centre hanger should also allow for the construction of new facilities for visitors at the location... Because the number of characteristics of existing objects on the present gift itself would not be repurposed because the centre is very tight and limited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And without building a new facility, it won't be possible to arrange it for the mentioned needs. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56737	Thank you. Meanwhile, another application for the IDS Club is a five-minute debate by a respected representative of the Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56738	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! As already said in the very presentation on behalf of the Club, President Damir Cain said the IDS Club will support this proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Spatial Nature Park Plan Učka. Of course, one such document is actually at the national level of nature park development strategies, and thus we who live near Učka are very interested in making such a plan. It is very important that the plan itself, which sets out very detailed proposals on how and how things will be done to support, of course, environmental protection, water sources and everything that we at Učka on one hand and on the other, so the Istrian County and the Primorje-Gorski County have. Let us not forget something else that we from the Istrian County have worked very hard to try to explain to the Government of the Republic of Croatia precisely about solving fire protection. So, as you know, one of the offices that was located in Labin has been shut down, and that office now has its headquarters in Pazin. So, Labin as an area and maze as an area that covered the entire Kvarner from practically from Učka to Pula is today uncovered. So I believe that when it comes to spatial plans, this kind of thing might have to say the same thing about something that can happen to us and in this case, I'm talking about the fire myself. I was personally present several times in a fire that was on Učka or on the slopes of Učka above the area of Krsan Municipality and Lupoglav, which caused huge damage. It burned down a completely complete forest on the south-west side of Cicaria or the slopes of Učka, and I think that these things are inadmissible and that at such times we should also react spotlessly that we do not actually have what we have today. If you drive along the road from Labin to Rijeka and towards the Učka tunnel, you will see what happened in that area that burned down and we see for ourselves that Croatian forests are fighting and working in the area of shaming and I hope that the shaming will be even better in the coming years. Of course, the proposal to adopt the Spatial Plan must have the influence of local self-government, and it is known that the units of local self-government and local self-government units on the team have, in this area, brought positive therefore, said that this spatial plan, the spatial plan of Nature Park Učka, but what has been said many times still needs to be asked by residents who live there, and we know that there are very few. So the spacious plan of Nature Park Učka must be applied and given an opinion, to consider the opinions of the residents themselves who live there. The management of Nature Park must, of course, also be in line with the population and the unit of local self-government, and that will certainly take into account its protection because who best rules the space from that and from those people who live in it. So let me say once again, the IDS Club will support, along with these proposals and amendments that the colleague has also said, a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Spatial Nature Park Plan Učka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56739	Thank you. Here's what we've concluded with this debate on this agenda point. We move on to the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56740	Let's move on, Proposal for a decision on the taking of a spatial nature plan, the Učka Nature Park. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and the IDS Representatives' Club. Secretary of State Davor Snotty, please be clear. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56741	All amendments to the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56742	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the draft decision. Second.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56743	MPs' amendments to Dorotee Pesic Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56745	The amendment is accepted in part by deleting the point behind the words at the end of the text of Učka and adding the words as an alternative direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56746	Partly yes. There are no MPs, so we will vote in a section that is not accepted by the amendment. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. I'll have the result, and I'll ask the MPs a little louder to talk to you as little as possible. Here you go. With 21 for, 5 abstentions, 65 against, Amendment number one was not accepted in that section. Amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56747	The amendment, second, following consultations with the County Office for Spatial Planning, which is the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, which is the creator of this plan, we decided to accept the amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56748	Amendment two accepted, becoming an integral part of the plan. And amendment three.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56749	The amendments shall be adopted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56750	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment four.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56751	The amendments shall be adopted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56752	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. So we're going to vote on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 98 votes in favour of a unanimous decision on the adoption of the Učka Nature Park spatial plan in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56753	We move on to the following: - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Spatial Nature Park Park Kopački Rita Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When adopting this Decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State Davor Snotty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56754	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Nature Park Act Kopački rit 1999 has been declared a wider area of the managed special reserve Kopački rit area of 177 km square park of nature and its borders are arranged, and its borders are arranged. When this Space Plan was drawn up, as I said earlier because of more precise measurement within the same limits, a larger area was established and it is about 228 kilometers in nature. For the Park of Nature Kopački rit and the wider area in 1982, the Spatial Plan was adopted, the official messenger of the municipality of Beli Manastir, which was analysed in the process of establishing a programme for the development of a spatial plan and it ceased to be valid under Article 57. A law on spatial arrangement in 1994 when a new Law on Spatial Planning was passed. As far as the system itself is concerned, or questions that are covered by the Spatial Park Plan, Park Kopački rit is primarily the editing of space and ways of certain purposes and are divided into the following elements: the visiting system. The spatial plan set out 7 land entrances to Nature Park, the main Mali sakadash, and the other entrances include: Podole, Podunavlje, Kozjak, Grabovac, Sokolac, Zlatna Gređa. Four points of access on waterways are set. The visiting path system consists of land and water trails. A movement regimes are determined by a public institution in cooperation with other users of space. Under the Spatial Plan it is possible to build an additional secondary network of trails which will also be established by a public institution that manages Nature Park according to visiting, managing and managing programmes. The spatial plan has detailed and required parking spaces for private vehicles, buses, and buses means for hikers, the location of the berths for sailing has been established. The use of space is only possible under certain conditions and restrictions. The buildings intended for accommodation and visiting are primarily planned outside of Nature Park. In this way, the Spacious Plan provides for Nature Park to form a unique space in economic and tourist terms from areas in the environment. Four areas of construction have been established: Tikveš Castle complex, Tikveš village, Kozjak village and Ebli farm. For the protected complex of Tixveš Castle, it is planned to be revitalised for the purposes of the European Environment Centre and in accordance with the conditions of conservation in 2001 for the adaptation and addition of these buildings,... The lab and beyond. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The village of Tikveš plans to be renovated as an ethno settlement, Kozjak as an eco settlement, and the farm Elbin is still planning to be used as a livestock business with the transition to horse breeding. For all buildings in the areas of construction The spatial plan established detailed purposes and conditions of construction and detailed conditions for settlements Tikveš and Kozjak were also established. So public surfaces, bridges, parks and the like. Out of the construction area, buildings are held or construction is allowed at the 21st location where the remaining structures were located or were built. It is about individual locations of forest, hunting, fishing houses, pumping stations, restaurant Kormoran and so on. It is also allowed in these areas outside, in the area of Nature Park outside the area of construction is allowed to build individual buildings in a nature park tour function such as covered views, resorts, views and the like. Only use of space is restricted to restricted use. It is a special zoo reserve in the southern part of the park, the area of selective use. This is a flood area outside a special zoo and multi-purpose use area. It's an area west of the Dragon-Kopačevo dikes and east of the embankment on the left side, on the left bank of the Danube. In the area of limited use, limited vessel visits and visits by smaller groups of existing land routes are allowed. Forest and breeding works are also permitted, works on replacing alachtonic species with indigenous, work on maintenance of water regimes and construction of meliorative structures to maintain the waterway of Drava and Dunava as well as technical maintenance of water streams and regulatory and protective buildings. The area of this selective use... in this area, a limited and controlled visitation, a water and land-based tour and a stay at the locations set out in the spatial plan is allowed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The use of forest forests in accordance with the forest-economic background and the replacement of existing plantations of foreign species has been authorised and re-enabled. In this part, forests need to be managed in a way that respects nature's protection elements in addition to economic respect. The bare areas along the waterways are intended to be forested as soon as possible, and traditional and recreational fishing is allowed in the area, as well as hunting that will be carried out in accordance with the hunting and economic base, with coordination with other visitation programmes. In the area of multi-purpose use visitation and stay of visitors are permitted, use of forests in accordance with the forest-economic base and the conditions of the Space Plan, and agricultural activity can be carried out exclusively on agricultural surfaces with a transition to organic production. In this area, recreational and traditional fishing, fishing on the Podunavlje pond and hunting that will be carried out in accordance with the hunting-economic base is also permitted. As far as the infrastructure itself is concerned, the spatial plan provides for the construction of the necessary electrical, telecommunications and water-economic infrastructures. The plan has passed a full legal procedure, since public debates, the alignment of the bodies of the local population. Furthermore, the government procedure and here as a final proposal, which the Government has identified, we propose that it be adopted in order for this area to start operating with a good governance regulation that will have to be passed by a competent public institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56755	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56756	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to correct an incorrect quote, or semi-accurate, but it's extremely important to determine the surface area of Kopački rit. So it doesn't happen again in 30 years if we have different data. Namely, you stated that the area of 228 square kilometers was established. It's only true in one part. 228, 94, but according to existing cadastrian books and measurements. However, it is true by satellite footage and precise measurements that the surface is 238. Ninety-two square miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56757	Thank you. Does the rapporteur want a committee? Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Honorary Representative Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56758	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the 32nd session, held on 1st February, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a spatial plan of Nature Park Kopački rit, which was delivered to the Croatian Parliament by a government act of 12 January. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal as the home working body. Introductory representative Mr. Salaj, the assistant minister of environmental protection and spatial planning and construction, explained the spatial plan. The Committee's discussion pointed out that this spatial plan is primarily a developmental, spatial-planned document, which addresses both the quality and overall issue of the protection of the nature park's organisation and arrangements, as well as ensuring the implementation of economic activities and all the conditions of nature protection. The Committee's priority is to address the problem of mined areas in the nature park, both for the safety of the local population and for the tourist orientation of this protected area. This is a bigger problem because it is about demining wetlands that require both specific efforts and significant financial resources. It also points to the importance of harmonising the management plan of the Public Institute Nature Park Kopački rit with the spatial nature park plan. The management plan of the Public Institution shall regulate the objectives and management policy and the guidelines for the protection of the protected area, so it is necessary to match the spatial plan in all segments of the Public Institution document. It is also argued that the proposal to protect the area directly along the border of nature parks according to the procedure laid down in the Nature Protection Act in the category to be established in the valorisation process opens in the coming period and the possibility to declare and increase the level of protection of Kopački rit. Regarding the difference in the total area of Nature Park Kopački rit is listed in the plan in relation to that defined by Nature Park Act Kopački rit the Committee has proposed to the Proposer to agree to those differences over the next three months, and to consider the need to amend the Nature Park Act Kopački rit in the area relating to the total area, if it considers that this is necessary. The Committee submitted amendments to the text of the proposal for a decision on the adoption of a spatial nature park plan to Kopački butt, and the applicant's representative accepted those amendments. This is why, with 10 votes for and one abstention, we have proposed to the Croatian Assembly to decide on a spatial nature park plan Kopački rit along with the following amendments. On a proposal for a decision on a spatial nature park plan, the Committee proposed 5 amendments. The amendment to point 1, is proposed to delete from the text of the decision the data on the subject who built the spatial plan. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on spatial editing, as the retention of the previous formulation would mean publication of both the text and the graphic part of the plan in the "National Journal", and the data for the given categories of presentation, which form the graphic part of the floor plan, are complete data on the criterion. The amendment to point 3 proposes an amendment in the section relating to dealing with the source of the plan, since the treatment with the original is regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. There is also an amendment at point 4, the deadline of 31 December 2006 at the latest is proposed to comply with this plan of all spatial plans which are in force until the date of entry into force of this Decision and in the area covered by the spatial plan. The amendment at point 5, nomotechnically edits the statement and defines the provisions for the implementation of the plan in part of the decision and is published in "The People's Journal". The Committee also proposed to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following conclusion: "It is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish appropriate measures and resources for demining the area of Nature Park Kopački rit within the appropriate period.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56759	Thank you. Resume session is at 3:00. It is next to the Croatian Democratic Community club, the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56760	We are continuing to discuss the proposal for a decision on the taking of a spatial nature park plan Kopački butt. A respected representative, Nevenka Majedenic, is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56761	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community considered the Proposal for a Decision on the Spatial Nature Park Plan Kopački rit as well as the spatial plan of Nature Park Kopački rit which is an integral part of this decision and proposed its adoption in the text as proposed. It is characteristic of this plan that a public debate procedure has been conducted before its proposal, in which all interested entities from citizens could participate and to professional organisations and institutions. They all had the opportunity to write and submit their observations and suggestions. Legislative provisions that required the consent of the competent ministries are also respected. It is also characteristic of this plan that many comments and proposals from the public debate were processed and incorporated in the draft plan normally if there were professional and justified grounds for their acceptance. We can say that the legal conditions and frameworks for its adoption are respected from the professional and procedural sides. In the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, we believe that when discussing the quality of the contents of this plan, the position, importance and specificity of the nature park area and the conditions of use, arrangements and protection of its space must be respected. Its geographical and traffic position in the far northeast of Croatia and the state border with the Republic of Hungary and Serbia-Montenegro and the importance of European transport corridors passing narrow and wider area of the park also determine the conditions of its protection and regulation. The Danube River is listed in the fourth class of European waterways, and it has built a series of waterways that allow two-way sailing. There is also a highway railway crossing this area and a state road D-7. Nature Park Kopački rit represents a unique area, a natural area, it is a relic of former natural swamps and has many scientific meanings. It is the last nest of the Danube-Drav region, a unique nest and a habitat of wet stories and a place of diverse swamp and forest vegetation. The natural potentials and resources of this area have not been sufficiently valorised so far, neither available to visitors nor used in the best way, and at the time of the Homeland War they were not only inaccessible but threatened and devastated. The complex Tikveš which was situated in the middle of the centuries-old oak forest was a residence and an exclusive hunting ground after the war was assigned to the management of the public establishment Park of Nature Kopački rit and began the actions of its re-emergence in the function of visitors. In addition to the complex Tikveš there are also settlements Kozjak and Tikveš and numerous forest, hunting and fishing houses that can be used for several purposes for the longer stay of especially environmentally conscious and educated visitors and scientists. In the area of nature park, the plan provides for the possibility of revitalising the development of economic activity, with an emphasis on respect for the conditions for use, regulation and protection measures. This is especially important because 71% of nature park areas are owned by Croatian forests, about 6% of Croatian waters, as much... And about 2% private-owned citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The economic activities of these entities are also envisaged in the direction of the development of forestry, hunting, aquaculture, agriculture and water industry, as well as in the frameworks of protection and preservation of the uniqueness of the entire area, because forestry does not only mean the cutting and exploitation of forests and wood stocks, but also its planting of new trees, especially those of indigenous, forest cleaning and protection against diseases and fires. Also in the area of hunting, care must be taken to preserve and protect the diverse species that dwell in the park. Hunting should be developed towards the reintroduction of traditional ways of hunting and fishing, the protection of the wealth of the animal world and the natural conditions of life and, in particular, the scientific observation and study of the animal world. In the area of the water economy, existing water buildings should be restored and new ones built to protect this area from excessive floods, allow waterways to float and ensure that visitors are transitible for the time being. The population in the park area is in constant demographic decline, and according to the last census in 2001, there were 108 inhabitants of mostly old age groups in two Tikveš and Kozjak settlements. Without carrying out the activities of the development of the nature park provided for by this plan, there are no living conditions for the existing population, especially the return of the younger population. The proposed plan provides for the purpose of existing citizens for different purposes from housing services to cultural scientific activities, and would enable its realisation to actively engage in different structures of the population. This would mean that people of different professions and occupations could find their own life interests and place of permanent stay in this area. On the other hand, if adequate protection and intervention of human beings in the implementation of flood protection measures, the destruction of agricultural cultures by savages and fires will be threatened both by settlements and the population in border settlements around nature parks. Witnesses like last year's mosquito situation, how flooded houses and cottages were in Kopački rit, how agricultural cultures, corn, by wild pigs, were destroyed. It is necessary to live in such conditions in order to understand what needs to be done in order to maintain the population and enable normal life and economic security in those places. We know that the Danube and Drava rivers are passing through many European countries, that these countries also had thorny, floodous and wetland areas, in a desire to exploit coastal land along the rivers have dried up the swamps, so now Kopački rit has become extremely interesting and attractive to tourists who just such a form or way of anti-stressing or research tourism love. It is up to us to properly appreciate, value, promote, but also adjust the arrival and acceptance of more tourists. That is why we in the Croatian Democratic Community club believe that this proposal for a spatial nature park Kopački rit is a good basis and a legal regulation for the restoration and development of this unique area, and for the well-being of both the local population and the entire state. That's why we support him and propose his adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56762	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. He's gone. The club loses its word. A club of independent MPs, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56763	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Here, after a little over eight years when the design of the spatial plan began, we finally have a proposal for a spatial plan for Nature Park "Kopački rit". I must point out, this proposal was made by the Office for the Spatial Planning of Osijek-Baranja County and there was no delay in making at least as far as the Office for Spatial Planning, however, what not a little but quite bothers this duration on the development of a spatial plan. Namely, in previous discussions, especially when it was stressed that in Nature Park "Kopački rit" financial resources were always somehow justified whether a spatial plan was yet to be adopted. However, this spatial plan includes observations and local self-government and regional self-government and all relevant institutions involved in its creation. This proposal was agreed by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and the water economy, as well as by the Ministry of Culture which had certain objections but those remarks were incorporated into this proposal for a spatial plan. And finally, according to the Ministry of Culture on 26 July 2004, the text of the proposal for a spatial plan for Nature Park "Kopački rit" which we now have on the parliamentary benches was completed. He's got a lot of problems about the Park of Nature "Kopački butt". I would stress the most significant, the most important that actually prevents not only nature protection and conservation but prevents the development of the economy, of course the economy in which all the specifics and related to the protection of this area are respected. First of all, I would like to stress that one large part of Kopački rit is not under our supervision, is not under the supervision, management and management of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because it's 4000 and 500 hectares on the left hand side of the Danube, and we don't really have the right to see what's going on today. And that's one big problem after and here's eleven years from Storm and six years from peaceful reintegration on 15 January 1998 is still 4000 and 500 hectares of Kopačski rit on the left side of the Danube and is not under the supervision, management and management of the Republic of Croatia. Another big problem is the mining of this area. To this day in Kopački rit is very little demining. Some demining Croatian forests, however, still 3,000 and 800 hectares of this area, areas under protection have been mined and therefore this minima represents a limiting factor of development both management and supervision and tourism development. The 1999 Nature Park Act "Kopački rit" says it covers the area, i.e. the area of 177 square kilometers. The latest satellite footage suggests that it is actually an area of 238.92 square kilometers, bearing in mind and data that, according to cartographic depictions, it is a 228 square kilometers area, according to the cataster. Therefore, it is necessary and this is also in line with what was previously highlighted and expressed in the debate to harmonise the data in the Nature Park Act "Kopački rit", sublegal acts and determine the exact surface of Nature Park Kopački rit. And fourthly, Kopac's ass is one big mosquito bed. We had discussions here at the Croatian Parliament and about mosquitoes. We also had requests from the Osijek-Baranja County, Vukovar-Srijem County in the sense that the state is involved in this for us a major problem. The state joined last year for the area of Osijek-Baranja County with 5 million kuna, however, I assure you that this is a small part of the funds, a minimum part of the funds for the major mosquito problem in the Osijek-Baranja County and the Vukovar-Srijem County area. Just lay mosquitoes, the biggest mosquito beds are in Kopački rit, Kopački butt is under protection. Can't use the usual means for... mosquitoes and I think it is high time that the state systematically engages in finding the modus to solve this major problem of the eastern part of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What stems from these problems, the most important problems and about Kopački rit I mean, and don't blame me because it's often known to tell an action plan for this, for what, so here I suggest an action plan for Kopački butt. It's not enough to bring just a spatial plan. We've been waiting for him for eight years. We have identified the problems of Kopački rit, not just those that I put out here behind the pay phone but I think we need a quick action if we are seriously thinking about protecting nature and the eco system in Kopački rit, if we mean the management that is in line with that protection to develop in the area of Kopački rit, especially if we are seriously thinking about the development of tourism in Nature Park Kopački rit. Therefore, it is necessary in legal and sublegal acts, let us call it, in this action plan to determine the exact surface area of Kopački rit, it is necessary to urgently find financial resources and demining the entire area of Kopački rit, of course to ensure supervision, management and management of the territory of the Republic of Croatia on the left hand side of the Danube. So finally, in 2006 it is now the sovereignty of all state territory in this part of Croatia or in the area of Kopački rit. Harmonise legislation for the purpose of rational and purposeful management and protection of nature and space. In everyday life and work and in the functioning of Kopački rit, problems arise and about the competences of certain public institutions. The state mostly owns the land. Croatian forests carry out hunting and forest economy activities, while the public institution Nature Park Kopački rit issues a fee-based authorisation. So far, it has been proven many times that the information relating to the Croatian forests or to the public institution Nature Park Kopački rit, that their infancy in the management of forests, in hunting because the public institution Nature Park Kopački rit gives Croatian forests approval with compensation and we know that the Croatian forests have actually been given the Kopački ass by the state authority to manage, lords of forests or hunting. The area of Kopački rita also has major problems in the disposal, pollution by waste water from the settlement, waste disposal or settlements in contact areas. This Space Plan defines infrastructure building. Input points, trails, roads, parking lots, facilities, municipal waste disposal and all in large part in the function and development of eco tourism. So the Independent Representatives' Club also supports the position that this Space Plan is a quality design, that provides quality solutions, but also reminds and requires that everything that is in the Space Plan is therefore what this Space Plan is and is designed and planned to provide financial resources and in the shortest time solve the most important problems, and of course infrastructure problems so that tourism, hunting, fishing, management in this part of Osijek-Baranja County or eastern part of Croatia can be fully developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56764	Thank you. For the SDP Club, respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56765	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. During the debate a few months ago on the proposal for a law on the declaration of Kopački rita by the national park proposed by a group of SDP representatives, we could hear from individual MPs that Kopački butt is actually a common swamp that should then be dried up and that is even more said by parliamentary representatives from Slavonia. I believe that after this debate on the Spatial Nature Park Kopački rit where exactly the number of reasons why this area enjoys a special form of protection of such discussions and such thinking will no longer be. What's Kopak's ass got to do with it? Well simply because it represents the most preserved and significant floodous area of the Danube River in all of Central Europe. It represents the area of the largest biological diversity of organisms related to wetland eco systems. Then the most significant fish nest of the Danube basin of this part of Europe, one of the last habitats of many endangered species of plants and animals. The area of the largest colony of certain species of birds in Croatia as well as a very important resting place for many species of swamps. For these reasons, this area is included in the list of wet areas of international importance, especially as the habitat of swamp birds, and the flood valley of Danube is listed on the list of European ornithological sites. The 1999 strategy and action plan for the protection of the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia as a strategic goal is also to protect wetlands and water, while conservation of natural swamps has been identified as a priority. Also in the Space Plan of Osijek-Baranja County, water surfaces of Danube and Drava are highlighted as particularly valuable resources, and Kopački ris is assessed by the backdrop of the tourism development of the county. By declaring Kopački rita a national park which we believe is a logical sequence of events, this flood zone between Drava and Danube would certainly become the most significant tourist destination in the northern continental part of the Republic of Croatia. ... to move on to the Space Plan of Nature Park Kopački ass. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In public debates over this Space Plan, two things or two caused the most controversy. First, there was coordination of management with the conditions of forest protection and forest land. And others, harmonising the development of hunting tourism with animal world protection conditions. Discussions have shown that these doubts and differences in views will continue to be present. However, someone or not liked the issue of economic forest management, and hunting in a protected area will have to be regulated in a different way than it was today. The fact is that the area of Nature Park is devastated, as stated in both the Space Plan and that devastation means it should be stopped. But we're going in a row. According to the Space Plan, only 7 thousand acres of forest are said to have grown in Kopački rit. That the last 150 years of large forest surfaces have been cut down and it is extremely significant that the rest of the forest is permanently preserved. The alignment of forest management with the nature park protection measures provides for the ban on plantation of foreign species and the abandonment of deforestation which does not follow the natural relief and the prohibition of clean cutting of forests. All mentioned in the aspect of nature protection and biological reslict of Kopački rit has proved to be harmful. Many habitats of such birds, for example, are no longer cut down by eagles and steppes because old trees are cut down and there are no longer enough tall trees to nest these birds. It says everything we've pointed to in our time, but it's been said that we're wrong. And the other problem, the main problem is hunting. It is said that there are great opportunities for its development and that the hunting organisation has so far to take place in accordance with the limits arising from the Nature Protection Act and the Hunting Act. A small mistake seems to have been made here, because by pointing out as before, you would have the impression that hunting within the park of nature has taken place in accordance with these laws, which was not exactly the case. But let's take one last one that talks about deer hunting. The hunting rule says the season lasts until January 15th. However, according to a solution issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, the season was extended until 31 January and for calves until 28 February. What's the reason? The reason is unknown. The new Nature Protection Act prohibits only the possibility of organising hunting in protected areas, protected zones, the reservoir I think above all. And it wouldn't be a good idea to interpret that rule of law to whom it suits, which was often the case. It's a good thing this spatial plan regulates that hunting is forbidden in a secure reserve. And speaking of hunting and hunting grounds, within the nature park, it is interesting to note that the spatial plan precisely defines the boundaries of nature parks, including the interstate border between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia in the Danube, which is understandable. However, what is understandable to the management of the park and all of us does not seem to be for the people who lead the Podunavlje-Podravlje hunting grounds and for the Minister of Agriculture, who in his decision of October 2005 on the establishment of a hunting ground, takes several smaller pockets of Serbian territory on the right bank of the Danube and thus supports the the thesis, supports Belgrade's thesis that the border between the two countries is in the middle of the Danube waterway, which is totally unacceptable for Croatia. The Republic of Croatia should insist on the position of the Badeinter Commission and seek only what is its, meaning respect for the so-called Badeinter Commission. the avionic borders, or those 9,000 acres that are located with, 10 thousand acres on the left bank of the Danube. I hope that responsibility for this mistake will be borne by the Ministry of Agriculture and that this adverse decision will be withdrawn, that is, if it is not already in line with the Nature Protection Act by today, then it will be in line with this spatial plan. In addition to considering a higher level of protection of Kopački rit, in this case as a national park, there is also a fact of a constant reduction in the number of inhabitants in settlements located within the Park of Nature, i.e. Tikvesha and Kozjak, as indicated in the spatial plan. In 30 years, since 1971, the population has been reduced five times. Of almost 600 people who have lived since '71. In this area, the number has fallen to just over 100 people. So, the work is slowly the demographic extinction of this part of Baranja. If we know that a protected natural whole is best protected by the domicile population, which is of benefit and benefit, the argument is that the government is seriously beginning to consider how to stop these negative flows. It has also been shown that the government's claim that the higher level of protection of Kopački rita will be an obstacle to the normal life of the population is simply not true. Because it is evident that the current management system does not retain the local population in this area. Our opinion is that by turning Nature Park Kopački ass into a national park, all indicators say that, additional tourist opportunities, all in order to better and more meaningful involvement of the local community in the management and tourist visitation programmes of Kopački rita. Clearly, this spatial plan was the result of a compromise. However, we hope that this spatial plan will contribute to a better solution to existing problems, and that the administration of the Public Business Nature Park, the Croatian Forest of Osijek, the units of local and regional self-government and the ecological association will recognise the fundamental interest. And the fundamental interest is to protect the Croatian national good, which the Kopački ass no doubt is. This should be done in order to protect the natural values of this part of Croatia, both because of the economic development of the Croatian extreme and the quality of life of citizens of Baranja and Osijek-Baranja County. And today's debate on transport seems to me to be a liner, a sea transport that lasted for three days has shown that we are more than dear to the Adriatic and Adriatic islands. But let us also show interest in our rivers, Sava, Drava, Danube and its adhesions and discover their beauty and values. So, for us in the SDP, there remains a fundamental issue of forest management and hunting, and the necessity of consistent application of the Nature Protection Act, the Law on Forests and the Law on Hunting and what is written in this spatial plan. Because it wouldn't be good for this spatial plan to be adopted, and everyone to keep reading it properly. In any case, the SDP club to resolve these doubts announces a reference in the parliamentary procedure of the new bill on the declaration of the Kopački rit national park, as all arguments say there is no obstacle to such a parliamentary decision. On the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56766	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56767	Thank you very much. Well, there were several incorrect allegations. But don't make a mistake. I listened very carefully to the debate when we were talking about a proposal to have Kopac's ass declared a national park. It is said here that Kopački rit was the Slavonian MPs, some Slavonian MPs declared a common swamp, which is absolutely not true. The swamp, yes, the area of Kopački rit, but as a natural treasure, not as you claimed it as a common swamp. I think it's underestimation and subject, but it's also Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56768	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56769	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Pancic said that the basic problem of the Kopački Rita is hunting. Hunting can't be a fundamental problem because hunting is not poaching, hunting is both breeding, saving and planned shooting savages, and hunting is carried out in accordance with the Hunting Act, and it can't be a problem if hunting is carried out in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56770	For the HNS club, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56771	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Proposers, here we are from the HNS club also very happy to see that finally, on our benches, the proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Nature Park "Kopački rit" even though we were one of those who supported the SDP colleagues' proposal for the establishment of a national park because we believe that this is a higher degree of protection that would contribute more to this space, so we believe that this idea should not be given up, that it should continue to be considered. Of course, however, one does not virtually exclude another, so I am sure that time will do its part and that perhaps we will talk about it again in a few years. Nature park "Kopački rit" the most preserved flood area, express biodiversity, marsh organisms, has even cca 300 species of birds, several dozens of amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals, but what is included in the list of eco-systems as the last habitat of many endangered species of plants and animals and as a resort for many colonies of swamp birds is included in the list of so-called. Wet areas of international nature. All these natural specialities, with the necessary professional evaluation, are sufficient to assume that the Croatian State, in its extremely valuable space as soon as possible, introduces such a stricter nature protection regime and responsibly restricts the use of current economic resources that threaten the origin of nature. On the other hand, nature protection measures must also be sustainable, they must be balanced with the needs of the indigenous population and the economic development of the area. The abandoned rural households within Kopački rit are not a reflection of economic well-being, nor the elitism of the local population going to live in the city but rather the opposite of the inability to survive schools in such adventurous economic relations in this region. It's more of an argument to think about the national park today or tomorrow. However, this raises the question of how the development of this area of nature park does not lie in the exploitation of forests and hunting, but the development lies in the development of tourism, and this raises the question of the definition of three types of areas of use, hence limited use, selective use and multi-purpose use, how many hectares have certain areas, because I have to admit it from a spatial plan I have failed to read, so I would ask the promoters to give me this information later. So how many areas are absorbed by hectares and in what areas, for example, in certain areas. economic activities may be carried out in certain areas, i.e. hunting and fishing and the economic exploitation of forests is permitted in the area of selective use or in the so-called so-called ‘registration’. multi-purpose use. So I'd like you to tell us how many acres of each area includes, if we do, we're talking about a whole spatial plan of 228 km2, and it seems to me that this first limited use is at 7,000 hectares while the rest is in so-called. selective and multi-purpose use. I'd like to point to something. It seems to me that under this strict protection regime remains one very small part, while the rest is still intended for economic use and economic exploitation, for hunting and for fishing. That's what I think is not good at this spatial plan. I know that you've probably calmed down all the passions of all the forest associations and all the potential desires for exploiting that space and for further hunting, but I think that the space that's under a strict protection regime remains far too small compared to those hectares where it's still allowed, but of course I'm letting you do this to me at the end of this debate maybe alone, to convince me of this. However, it is not entirely clear from the material so far, nor from the benefits or benefits of deforestation, since the area is largely wet, and according to some data, for example. The shell oak is no longer present and even less known data are as to how much revenue is made by the commercialisation of hunting, which is a more significant contribution to the economic development of this area, because it always takes place in a closed circle of a small number of users. There remains the possibility of forest exploitation in the area where there is justification, as well as hunting in those parts that remain outside the park, and are primarily predetermined as complementing some other tourist activity. Natural specificity, biodiversity, great ecological awareness, the potential of this space for the development of a specific kind of scientific research, eco tourism, for rural tourism and all that is not developed there today. She's completely unfounded and constrained by the loss of jobs especially in forestry and I say what you've managed to do seems to me to get one consensus between stakeholders, I'm afraid she's lying simply in one imbalance in certain hectares of space. In addition to what I would like to mention here is certainly two or three more things that I think are important, it is that space is still a large part below mines and that it is not a demining big problem of this nature park. This is not about simple mining, since it is a wetland area and the demining process itself is much more complex and difficult, not to say that there have been likely and certain developments in these floods, therefore it is not possible to do it according to any plans. I think you should consider forming funds from which it would then finance the demining of that space. I welcome the particular fact that you have pointed out in the spatial plan that there are four specific points of entry on certain waterways, i.e. four entrances, four approaches, and I particularly welcome the fact that you have determined that Tikveš, Tikveš village, Kozjak and the farm remain as special construction units and that special attention is paid to them. That's it. We from the Croatian People's Party will certainly support the proposal for this decision, but before that, I would ask the promoters to answer me these few questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56772	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56773	Thank you very much. A colleague claimed that compared to the Park of Nature "Kopački rit", the national park is a higher level of protection. This is not entirely true because the integral part of Nature Park Kopački rit is a spatial and zoo reserve. It is located in the southern part of Nature Park Kopački rit, and the special zoo reserve has a higher level of protection than the national park.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56774	We're going to individual debates. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56775	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The spacious nature park plan Kopački rit is a fundamental document for the protection, organisation, editing of the area of nature park, and a developmental, spatial-planned document governing mutual relations, the interests of users in the area of nature park with relations and interests of the wider community. I must point out immediately at the outset that all the users of the area in Nature Park Kopački rit during the public debate process had an opportunity, pointed out their demands and their remarks on the solutions given by this spatial plan. That all economic operators have done so, that the competent authorities of the nature protection institution, the protection of cultural monuments, the Municipality of Krnježev vineyards, the City of Osijek and the county have done so. Therefore, we have a spatial plan solution that offers one whole development concept of this space and in which all interested entities have declared themselves, and most of it is truly and respected in this spatial plan. It is already pointed out here that this national, Nature Park Kopački rit is situated in the southeastern part of Baranja between the border with Serbia, i.e. the Danube River and the Drava River. That the area of 228 square kilometers is according to the latest measurements and that there is also a specially protected zoo reserve of 71 thousand square kilometers and that in this zoo reserve, which was designated as a special natural whole in 1968, there is a special regime for both use and the management of that space. Nature park Kopački rit is a unique natural area which is the rest of the former vast swamps in the flood valleys of Danube, Drava and is one rare of preserved wetlands in Europe. The basic natural phenomenon is marsh alluvial land and water. Due to the specific water regime and the operation of the Drava and Danube waters, a specific flora and fauna has developed in that area. Thus, it would point out that the plant world in the Kopački Cape consists of 40 plant communities with over 300 plant species. The forest has been developed, especially in the forest of the Lužnjak oak, the Polish and American jasen, the Black Nuts, and in the floodous area, mainly in the zootic reserve of the belogoric, willows, black and white poplars that are natural. So, from the very data we see that over the past 60, 70 years, in parts of Nature Park, Kopački rit has been introduced are plant cultures that are not indigenous to us and that will eventually need to be removed from this space with of course good management. It's a fauna-rich area, and there are 285 bird species of which 141 species nest. All of them are birds, all of these species enjoy special protection except for 23 species declared hunting savages. The meadows and pastures are inhabited by a tall game, such as deer, deer, wild boar, Polish rabbit and others, and therefore one national hunting grounds, 3 joint hunting sites and one game farm, are established outside the area of a special protected reserve. Nature park also has developed its infrastructure, which is mostly built on the roads and trails on the so-called so-called road. There are also waterways on waterways and canals. There are only two settlements in the entire park, which is Tikveš and Kozjak where in 47 households there are total living today about 108 residents. Of the construction heritage, there is certainly a need for a prominent complex of Tixveš castles and 29 other buildings built, hunting houses and forest houses that are in devasted condition. Before I move on to spatial solutions, I must point out that this area has been occupied for eight and a half years, that it's very devastated, that certain spaces are mined and that for the truth, it's difficult to use space, part of the nature park space. The process of developing a spatial plan has resulted in an evaluation of the nature of this area and the coordination of the interests of users of this area, and a complete concept of spatial development, use and protection of the area of Nature Park has been established, respecting the natural and created bases. Nature Park space our planners divided into two zones and this natural zone, which includes a flood zone and a zone that is partly defended from floods and used for the most part of the economic purpose. Zone, cultural zone is a zone of ethnological sites, and these are mainly settlements Kozjak and Tikveš and protected cultural historical whole of the Tiveš castle complex. As regards the use and use of space, planners have divided this entire space into a restricted use area which mainly includes a protected zoo reserve where this space can only be used for scientific, scientific purposes or for visiting, but under strict control with already built infrastructure or with some... Then the area of selective use that includes space outside that zoo reserve where with smaller vessels on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] with the possibility of entering smaller vessels and walking paths and paths, the Danube and Danube can take a tour, but some economic activities such as the use of forests, hunting, traditional fishing in accordance with the rules governing internal order in the nature park can be carried out in that area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, that third part that includes a space where forest management, agricultural land and everything else is possible. This entire area of nature park is indeed a unique area and the planners have offered a suitable solution for every activity that can be done in this area, with a particular attempt to develop a special type of tourism. that visitor tourism which would be organised through and in accordance with the rules prescribed by the public institution of the national nature park.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56776	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56777	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a decision on the establishment of a spatial nature park Kopački rit is ahead of us and it contains all the facts that are included in it, and as we know the Nature Park Act Kopački ass from '99. A wider area of management of the special reserve Kopački rit of 177 square kilometers was declared. During the detailed work-up of the plan, it was found that the area was covered in nature and larger and is about 228 km square km. Kopački rit as we know it is a flood zone of the right surrounding Danube in northeastern Croatia in a corner made of Drava and Danube. It's one of Europe's largest fluvial wetlands. Mosaicly distributed parts of the ritland and ritish waters change their size, shape and function depending on the amount of water reached. Despite the uniform lowly appearance of the micro-relief structure of Kopački rit is very complex, large dens are pointed out permanently filled with water so-called water. Lakes, occasionally flooded surfaces, etc. the ponds and the depths of which the water streams and seals. The biggest lake is a swimming lake, and the deepest lake is... The lake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of its preservation as a rare rhythmic eco system of great biodiversity of exceptional scientific and ecological value Kopački rit was protected by status in 1967... A natural reserve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The autochton flora and vegetation of Kopački rit provide favourable living conditions for various non-Kingish representatives who have so far identified more than 400 species. The basic eco-recognition of Kopački rita is a fauna of birds, and as many as 285 species of which 141 species nest regularly or occasionally in the rhythm have been recorded. The spatial plan sets out 7 land entrances to the nature park of which is the main Mali sakadash, and the other entrances include Podravlje, Podunavlje, Kozjak, Grabovac, Sokolovac and Zlatna beam. The spatial plan also detailed the number of parking spaces needed for private vehicles and buses, and identified the locations of the berths for vessels. The spatial plan also identified four areas of construction, the complex of Tixves Castle plans to be revitalised for the needs of the European Environment Centre. The village of Tikveš plans to be restored as an ethnic settlement. The village Kozjak as an eco settlement and the farm Eblin is planned to be used in the livestock business along with the transitional breeding of horses. Outside the building area, buildings are being held or 21 locations are being built, or structures were being built, and individual locations of forest, hunting and fishing houses, gas stations and restaurants... In the area of nature park outside the area of construction is allowed to build individual buildings in a nature park tour function such as covered views, resorts, views, etc. as well as the hunting structure provided for by the hunting-economic institution of the check, feedingstuffs and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the method of using Nature Park Kopački rit with a spatial plan extends to the area of limited use of a special zoo reserve in the southern part of the park, the area of selective use of the flood area outside the special zoo and the area of multi-purpose use of the area west of the Dragons, Kopačevo east of the embankment on the left bank of the Danube. The spatial plan provides for the construction of the necessary electricity, telecommunications and water-economic infrastructures. The digging butt is one of the few wetlands left on our land, so its significance is even greater if it is observed in the following fact. The procedure for public debate and preparation of the draft final proposal for this spatial plan has been implemented, the spatial nature park plan Kopački rat has been completed procedurally, all the law of the envisaged phase of production has been completed, the public debate was completed on 16 January 2004, the responses to the remarks were given, and on 2 March 2004. The country's spatial planning council gave a positive assessment of the plan's proposal. Consent and opinions have been requested and additional consultations have been carried out related to the problems of park borders which are partially unavailable on the eastern coast of the Danube, and since practical contributions to the real situation on the ground and agreement has been reached with the representative of the Department for the Protection of Nature of the Ministry of Culture, which is a co-ordinator of the development of the plan. The defence ministry has also announced additional conditions that will continue to be developed. In early September, nomotechnical corrections of implementing provisions were carried out which were adopted together with the explanation and draft decision adopted... addressed to the Government's Legislative Office on 23 November 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All this procedure, which has been implemented, speaks of the fact that this proposal for a decision on a spatial plan has been approached according to all the parameters that satisfy and that this spatial plan will greatly help further development, progress and tourist tour of the Nature Park "Kopački rit" as well as the construction and revitalisation of those spaces that have been abandoned so far. Here, so much for me on the motion for a decision. He's really clear and unequivocal and I think he's going to contribute to further development of Nature Park "Kopak ass". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56778	Thank you. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56779	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! So I support the adoption of a spatial nature park plan "Kopački rit" because, as he said first of all, on behalf of the Club of fellow Pancic, this proposal confirms that we were right last year when we proposed a higher level of protection than this one, when we suggested that this area become a national park. Of course, by managing the motive to protect this unique beauty created by nature and to a great extent, to the extent possible, and to protect it as quickly as possible, and to the fullest extent possible, to the pride of satisfaction, I would say, but also to the well-being of future generations. Our goal when we proposed this area to the national park was unquestionably to further protect and improve exceptional natural values from further destruction and disappearance, fostering sustainable visions of the use of natural goods, maximum prevention of adverse impacts and damages and losses both in the economy and in other segments resulting from inadequate use of natural goods. Of course, improving the socio-economic situation primarily of that part of the population located in the nature park and the surrounding areas, especially by developing environmentally acceptable tourism and service activities. Of course, the aim was also to respect all international obligations arising from the Convention and the Treaties which the Republic of Croatia is a signatories and to confirm that we are really prepared to follow the high standards and standards of the developed world related to the protection of nature and the environment. We wanted to, and this is the intensity of this proposal to make the Republic of Croatia a desirable and acceptable destination. Of course, to enable faster economic development, faster employment and self-employment of the local population, to speed up the process of demining in that area we heard from my predecessors that unfortunately it is still quite present. And especially encourage more important protection of the left bank of the Danube River. But here's how it takes all the time to mature consciousness, I'd say, because the first protections in the legislative sense appear in the 67th century. That's how it looks, and in this short time period it takes for some things to reach places that we couldn't reach at those moments. I am perfectly aware that this proposal that we have before us is also a reflection of the compromise that seeks to reconcile the interests of all entities in this area and as it is said in one part of the text of this proposal, at this point to determine the quality of the existing state but also to define the desired sustainable state. I therefore believe that the objectives set are also extremely good and essentially just support what I said when we suggested that this area become a national park. And here it is said that the primary and primary objective of protecting the use of space as a national good is to respect the common features and personality of the area above all by preserving natural features. The specific objective is to give this space a stronger advantage than other parts of Europe, which are unfortunately devastated. The advantage is that this is preserved. The strategic goal is to protect wetlands and water, etc., not to read what we have certainly all read, and of course we have agreed. In particular, I would like to stress that here there is a particular emphasis on the development of tourism as the most significant resource in the area of nature park as well as in the wider environment. Obviously, we who know this area a little bit better than before know that this is indeed a historicly rich area and that there is something to see and experience not only in nature's park, within existing borders but beyond it. In this spatial plan, protection measures are significantly highlighted. I'd say it's a good investment in the future. That's why I'm saying we were almost on the same track when we suggested that this area become a national park. I believe that this spatial plan will be a good bond, or I would say interstep to that stage, and I expect that the resolution ministries will also start preparing in this direction because we know what needs to be changed from the strategy to the further documents. At this point, I dare say that it is well-compromised or balanced interest but also jurisdiction, jurisdiction of certain state institutions and public institutions of nature parks. I hope that there will be no more radical and significant deviation in operationalization, and that the real implementation will go on track for what we have done with this Law and the Space Plan and predicted. So here is an unquestionably well-designed approach and a clear hierarchy of governance. All that has been done badly during the past period is sought to correct above all by replacing alochton species of forest vegetation. It also seeks to protect that part of oaks and other crops for future generations. It also looks forward to knowing that eco-production is given a special emphasis and that the part of the village that is located or the settlements that are located within the area, Nature Park, is further motivated to become ethno village and, most importantly, I think that there is also a colleague Markov said in the previous Law Announcing the Nature Park Učka to find a quality model to keep the population. Without the population, it is illusory to expect that this, this natural beauty and this wealth that we have will be further protected. At this point, everything is 114 inhabitants in this area. I don't believe they were just driven by mosquitoes from that area. They were also driven away by carelessness, the carelessness of society as a whole and the inability to ensure quality of life for themselves and their children by their work. To conclude, it is only a matter of time before this space becomes a national park, and it is on all of us that by significantly increasing investment and raising economic opportunities we allow many who have not had the opportunity to experience this space as soon as possible, but experience it with their fullness and, of course, to protect what is yet to be protected. So for these reasons, I support the adoption of this Space Plan in the belief that it is only a transitional period to the National Park for which I am sure many Slavons are very eager, but I think it will be proud of the entire Republic of Croatia and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56780	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56781	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, here's a lot of debate on Kopački rit either. We see that everyone supports this proposal to develop the Space Plan. What I am saying is that here it is visible that in the construction of the Space Plan of Nature Park Kopački rit Makers, professional coordinators and plan makers have identified the starting points that have an important impact on the preparation and development of the Space Plan. The boundaries of Nature Park are detailed. The park area and the location description from which it is visible that the park is located in Osijek-Baranja County, mostly in the area of Bilje municipality around 75%. The municipalities of the Prince's vineyards 24% and a little bit in the area of the city of Osijek. In the narrow and wider area of the park there are European transport corridors representing river transport, river transport of the Danube and the European Road Railway Corridor with roads D-7 and highway railway lines MP-13. The basic owners of the park as visible from the data are the Republic of Croatia with 13.18%, Croatia's forests with 71.05% and a smaller part of Belje d.d. Darda, the public institution Kopački butt and something small is also in private possession. By observing data on censuses, there is a trend in demographic extinction of people living in the park area. In 2001, only 108 inhabitants lived in the park area and Tikveš and Kozjak settlements. The plan presents planned economic activities involving existing population, park visits, hunting, fisheries, forestry, agriculture and conditions of use of the arrangement and space protection. The plan provides for economic cultural and social development through the development of catering and tourism activities with accompanying activities based on the development of cyclist sports, the development of horse farming and horse sports, the development of tourism from cultural to river, fishing and hunting tourism. It is safe for farmers to find their place through the production of healthy food. Despite the objectives set for economic and social and cultural development in the final proposal, the plan particularly points to the importance of preserving natural values including water, soil, relief, air, flora and fauna. But surely the entire rural area with the preservation and protection of the original traditional and cultural values. Furthermore, the plan shows the development of infrastructure systems involving transport infrastructure, telecommunications and energy with electricity, gas supply and heat. Special consideration is given to alternative energy sources for the purpose of supplying the population with energy. The plan provides for measures to protect natural values and protect against fires but also points to the importance of the urgent demining of water and land areas of Nature Park. In addition to the protection of the natural values of the Park in the final proposal, it is also given a view of the conditions of use and arrangement of space and the conditions of construction which require the use of local material in accordance with the traditional way of construction. Especially here, I would like to highlight the provisions that define that the Park of Nature will not be deposited and permanent disposal of waste. Here at the end of this debate I hold that this proposed spatial plan comprehensively and fully provides a demonstration of the current state and future development of nature park Kopački ass. I hope that the Kopački ass will be even more accessible to nature lovers in the future, but at the same time, the unique ecosystem will remain as preserved as the plant and animal world where Kopački rit is known throughout the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56782	Thank you very much. At 16,04, it's been 10 minutes. It is Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, she's 30 years old since 1976. Nature Park received the status of nature park, and the narrow area of status, the status of a special zoo reserve. Nine years before that. '67. In 1997, Kopački rit was declared a natural reserve, and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia the Public Institute of Nature Park Kopački rit was founded. The debates indicate the problems of Kopački rit. The problems are, above all, in the minima of this area, the problems are that the Republic of Croatia has not yet achieved sovereignty over the entire area of Kopački rit, and I mean the left bank of the Danube. It's an area of 4000 and 500 hectares. There was a debate about an earlier national park proposal, and in my opinion, there were actually certain contradictions. Namely, in national, protection, the level of protection of the national park does not allow management in the national park. In the current status of Kopački butt, as a park of nature, management is allowed. And I would remind you that management takes place through forest management, it's not about cutting down the forest as it could have been about cutting down the forest clean. It's about mastering, of course, and cutting, better said about the deforestation. And when we talk about management then it should be emphasized that from this area, but also by using euro-American poplars that are not indigenous trees, or which are not, are allohthon trees and are used in the Belisce Kombinat. Next, use the money. In 2004, revenue of 3 million kuna was achieved in Kopački rit. In 2005, nearly 4 million kunas. In doing so, what is extremely important is that hunting is not only about hunting for game, but also about breeding game and taking care of game. That's the occasion of the '99 inventory. In the year Nature Park Kopački rit had 500 deer, 500 throats of the famous Baranja deer. 4, or 5 years later in 2004, there were 1,000 and 500 deer throats in this area, with the male-female-female ratio to be noted. '99. Year 1:3, and in 2004 1:1,2. Furthermore, when talking about fishing and ponds, Kopački rit is mastered by fish. White has a pond capacity of 530 tonnes of fish per year. Unfortunately, this capacity is not used as much as it could but on... ponds are grown 160 to 170 tonnes of fish a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also remind you of the fact that within the framework of Kopački rita it is as a park of nature that it is also on the spatial plans of the port area of Osijek in 2003. By declaring the national park and this port area Osijek should not be within the scope of Kopački rita Nature Park. It was about demographics. Although I would not agree that the cause of population decline is drastic, because almost 6 times in these two settlements the population of 30 years has dropped 6 times in Tikveš and Kozjak. The current situation is that there are only 108 and in one and another settlement, and I would add to this another devastating fact that only one family with two members is in the village of Podunavlje. But I think the causes of poverty are all over this area in Baranja. Where more than 50% of unemployment is, where the economy is actually devastated and collapsed, where, where agriculture is destroyed, where large agricultural areas are below mines. Therefore, this whole difficult situation is not only in the area of Nature Park Kopački rit but also in the area of all Baranja. Well, if you want the entire eastern part of Croatia. Well, that's where we should look, and I think that's where the reason is far greater in this continuing demographic decline in the area of these two settlements that are listed in the materials. But even though we've been waiting for a spatial plan for eight years, I have to express here's a pleasure finally that he's ahead of us. I think he is comprehensive, that he is complete, that he has answered a number of questions both in the management part and in the part of the development of tourism, and especially in the part of protection in the area of Nature Park Kopački rita. Of course, I will support this proposal of a spatial plan, but I will also insist that, in accordance with all of this, I say to the intentions that stand in the spatial plan, and in part of the economy, agriculture, the development of eco-tourism and, of course, the full protection of the natural values of Nature Park "Kopački rit" is fully consistent and that with the proposal to adopt one strategy in the next four or five years, an action plan to actually make everything that is intended in the spatial plan be achieved in the area of Nature Park "Kopački butt". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56784	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56785	Thank you. We agree on a lot, Mr. Shiljagic, on what you said, and on your predecessors. It just seems there's one misunderstanding of our proposal why Kopački ass is a national park. Well, that's why you said it was a demographic death of this part of Baranja, and it's written in the spatial plan, and that's true. As a result of this, you cite poverty in the entire area, economic devastation, agriculture, and we will absolutely agree with that. Which is the solution, whether things go the way they've been going so far, because we'll agree and that the management of the forest is extremely inconclusive and irrational because the forests are located on unquality land, the benefits of the hunt are very questionable except for certain structures and therefore our opinion is that by declaring Kopački rita a national park, we're raising this area by several here and mathematically speaking, a dozen times. Because estimates say that the national park as a brand attracts visitors several times more than the nature park itself. Of course certain protected units should be protected as was the case and now or even stronger, because these devastations of the forest, by cutting the forest we have lost certain birds and those birds that are and, which is also a symbol of the Kopački rit itself, which are eagles or I don't know the other bird that is just in the tracks, it's a stepak. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56786	Thank you. Answer Mr. Sishljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56787	Thank you very much. Well, I think we'll agree on one thing, that this area of nature park needs maximum protection, but it doesn't protect in a way that no economic activity can be carried out in an area protected by the protected area, or only tourism can be developed. The protection of the plant and animal world and of this area can be achieved if, of course, we are consistent and supervised by those legal provisions within the park of nature, not within the national park. The more I think the national park in the current legal conditions, or frameworks, the more it is impossible to declare a national park, because the national park implies that the human hand did not or did very little work in one area. Here's what's been going on for years, and there's a protective fence there that's been built 70 miles in the '70s. You've got a 20-mile-long bent rash that interferes with every year's flood in this area, because a third of Baranja would actually be flooded. Furthermore, it is necessary to destroy economic ponds, as I said earlier on Belja, which are 500 tonnes or should be prevented from cutting Euro-American cannons that are not actually indigenous to the region, which serves Belisto for further processing. Besides, another note. These Euro-American cannons that were cut into one narrow area, they were planted there 30 years ago just to be used economically. So I think that we can agree on the need for maximum protection in every sense in this area, but I think that nature park as a park of nature provides sufficient protection, of course, if all those measures that the law requires are implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56788	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56789	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support the decision to make a spatial plan of Nature Park "Kopački rit" because we finally have a spatial plan for this area. But I must say that I am particularly pleased that the spatial plan has been set up so that it is essentially discussing all the elements that allow the Nature Protection Act and the International Convention that we have adopted, and in this segment it is actually demystifying the whole debate about whether or not this can be a national park. Namely, so-called. Inherited economic activity and traditional economic activity can be carried out in both nature park and national park and there is no doubt about the Nature Protection Act, on the one hand. On the other hand, at the same time, the promoter raises this part to one quality more by introducing ethno villages, which is quite fine that we support about a specific form of tourist activity which I will say something about later. Actually, what I want to point out. I would like to stress that Kopački rit is actually a very specific area in which there are strict reserves of nature, in which no activity is allowed except natural activity. At the same time, all other areas were declared nature parks, and it is quite clear that there are some other areas of narrow areas, especially in the northeast part of the park, which could be declared a strict reserve, and most of the works other than the inhabited areas that are proposed to be declared ethno villages, can actually be declared a national park, and these ethnic villages could cover a wider area of the national park or as a nature park. And I advocate that it finally sits very seriously to study this problem and that Kopački rit is declared a national nature park for the reason that it protects a whole series of flora and fauna which as a matter of fact... the area is characteristic not only of this part of Europe but also of the jury of the international community. The second thing that is important here is the fact that in the park of nature not only because of war and war but also because of such a relationship between the social community and the state community towards the nature park practically from year to year, there is a reduction in the population of both the labour and the one who works as well as the one who actually lives in the last 50 years, we have reduced more than ten times the population living in the area of nature park. When we look at it from that point of view, then we'll see some very interesting things. First, to be in the frame of the so-called. Inherited actions, economic activities especially in forestry are increasingly and more introduced by indigenous species into the forest world such as the Euro-Canadian and Euro-American poplars, then clear, black-clear, etc., which of course affects not only the plant but also the animal world that resides in this ecosystem. Another thing that needs to be seen is that some of the traditional, such as traditional fishing, are neglected and at the same time limited, which certainly shouldn't, and in this respect there is no obstacle to the continuation of that part. The second question is to prescribe by the administration, the competent institution, and I hope tomorrow to the national park, not the nature park. Under which conditions and on what criteria to exploit the traditional and inherited economic activity both in agriculture and in vegetables, if you will, or warfare and vegetables, then in fishing, hunting, forestry in a way that enables the development and sustainable development and protection of flora and fauna in the national park. That can be quite prescribed. Unfortunately, we in one segment seem to look at, for example, this spatial plan, we have one coverage, and when we look at the regulation, especially the lex specialis, then we have some things that are in nature in itself contrary to the spatial plan. For example, for illustrations, let's take the Hunting Law. The Hunting Act protected a crow or cormorant, and now it's quite clear as soon as you talk or eventually visit Kopački ass that it's multiplied to the extent that it threatens the other species that are there so it's just a fish fund. And in such a situation, the question arises whether a nature park, i.e. a national park, should be allowed to plan, through implementing decisions, to actually select certain species from those that should enable ecological and biobalance in the national park itself, between the flora and the fauna located there. Or another problem, we should not only of course at the Park of Nature Kopački rit or national park but also in many other areas of Croatia ensure as fast as possible residential building of residential units, residential buildings and of course housing houses that should enable one of the fundamental needs of man to be resolved. Especially young families, bringing people back to their homes. But on the other hand, we bring February 2nd of this year, in 2006, the regulation, for example, on the height of the water contribution by which in this area the Kopački rit of the business room other than the production plants would be a zone where 60 kuna per cubic metre would be paid. Do you know what that is? Do you know how many thousands, tens of thousands of kunas will have to pay in Kopački rit for building, say, a tourist and catering facility that will be used there by the European Commission for the Ecosystem? Do you know how much we're going to have to pay the kuna of the plumber, for example, for the ethnic villages to be made in Kozjak, etc. Not to say it's weird at all, you know, that a regulation like this is made in an amazing way actually a little bit by the side, hidden by the eyes of the Parliament. Because for example, if you're going to have an apartment building up to 500 square meters, not a building, but a house for up to 500 square meters times 2,70, you're going to calculate that's over a thousand and some square meters. If this is in zone B you will pay for such a building for housing times 40 kuna, you will come up with the terrible money that people should give only from the title of water, water contribution and all of a sudden pay, except... I've got it neatly here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How come you're trying to help get people back there? How to establish economic activity? Who's got that money? This regulation is like being lied to by drunk millionaires who have money to throw away, so they think everyone in society has that kind of money, etc., etc. I'm just taking this as an illustrating example to see actually how these spatial plans are going to be a dead letter on paper because they're simply not going to watch what's in them, but they're going to watch what's in the regulations and where and how can it be, if I can use a people's expression, a man, or a citizen, fire in his pocket. The fourth group of questions I want to open is a matter of found state. It forgets something that's terrible, that most of the Kopački rit of Nature's Park floods the Danube every year. That from year to year, its deposit is laid down and increased on mines and mines by the explosives found there, and that at the same time we cannot at the same time declare the priority of demining this Nature Park. What, to whom does it serve and why? Where's he going? When we start these issues and eventually bring into a situation so that we can actually develop a spatial plan with the development of people's return, with the development of sustainable action in the economic social sphere in the Nature Park or tomorrow, I hope that we can develop a national park such as fishing, hunting tourism, eco-tourism with a special part of eco-safari in protected areas, strictly protected areas, therefore, strict reserves that would allow not only our citizens but Europe's citizens to visit and that they certainly pay very high-quality wages and to provide additional sources of income in this Park, or a national reserve that should allow quality growth and development in all of this. Of course, if from this point of view, which the law allows, then it fully corresponds with counterpart Šišljagić, it does not matter whether it is in this segment of Nature Park or national park. It is important to ask how those inherited and traditional activities continue to develop, to act in the sustainable system of protection of the eco-systems that are located there. And this must be prescribed by people who are involved in environmental protection, who are involved in the study of flora and fauna and the National Park Kopački rit and who must be the bearers of actually this growth and development, and should not be under a glass bell that will be distant and separate from humans. No, people have to use it, they have to have the opportunity to enjoy natural diversity on the one hand and on the other hand to learn a lot and at the same time use it for their own progress and their own development. Otherwise, it's no use to itself. It is, it would be a purpose to itself and such a thing simply must not happen. I want to stress one more thing again. I stress, we bring spatial plans, not only for nature parks and national parks as we do today, but for all units of local self-government, but at the same time through the implementing regulations, we create conditions for these implementing regulations and plans not to be implemented at all because to this extent we burden the population to ask the question of what it will do otherwise than just break those same rules and work on wild. For example, 100 grand to be allocated for a water contribution at once, for a building permit, so of course it will be installed in buildings, not allowed to be simply peeled from his back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56790	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words regarding the adoption of a spatial plan of Nature Park Kopački rit. As is known today in Croatia, we already have about 10% of the area protected by a certain form of protection, and it also seems to me that there are still around 3 to 4% of areas still to be declared or at least a desire on the ground to declare themselves protected. When we add that we also have about 8 to 9% of the surfaces that are inaccessible because of the minimality then it turns out that we have one quite large percentage of the surfaces that can't be mastered. We declared this public institution back in '97. year and she was here after entering the 9th year brings her own spatial plan which is here to greet, certainly to bring a spatial plan, but I think the basic document of spatial bringing away a long time ago. However, it was also okay to adopt it, and to comply with all the applicable laws that exist with us, which we have adopted, so I will give an example of where in the article implementation of the plan, the measures to implement the plan in Article 94 says: "The public institution manages the area of nature park in accordance with the Internal Order, the Management Plan and the Nature Protection Act," and we adopted the Forest Act, which says in Article 26 where forest management is spoken of particularly protected areas, and says in Article 26(1): "For forests and forest land that are located in protected areas of nature parks, regional parks, protected landscapes, forest parks are developed by commercial companies, or forest owners, and legal persons who are responsible for managing protected areas and commercial companies are jointly implementing a programme of forest management measures". The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Forests and forest land located in protected areas, categories of national park,... , a special reserve, nature monuments and monuments of the park architecture legal person responsible for managing protected areas builds and implements a programme of conservation and protection of forests that is built according to the specific criteria laid down in the regulation for the regulation of forests by the Minister, with the consent of the Minister responsible for the protection of nature." We've passed that law before 28.11. Here's what seems to me to be written here, and now we're making a spatial plan that delegates the decisions of the law that has been made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm asking myself and your colleagues here why we've passed one law, and now we're bringing in another one that delegates something that's before, well this isn't the law this is a spatial plan, but it should be applied and it should be in accordance with the law that we've passed. I don't see why gentlemen from the Ministry of Resort today don't sit with them and the Resort Ministry of Forestry because here are the two entities who master this area and that's the Law on Forests, and I don't see any reason why these two ministries don't sit together and bring together a joint act that they will delegate. What am I saying that for? We've had cases so far that the rules on the internal order of many public institutions, parks, national parks were older than the law, so they prescribed something that none of them were told by law, that the colleagues of the Ministry of the Environment know, and then we prescribed some things that didn't stand, and here's the chance to agree on those points, and it can't happen now that you're proposing one law that isn't in accordance with the law that was passed three months ago, forgive me illogically, I don't know why we've passed this law if it's already in the first step but someone, a way that doesn't logical, its provisions work. Also related to Article 14, and there may be other measures, and in my view, this way will not be good and we will again have dual management and we will have non-good relations. And I'd just like to remind you that by... The '93 convention. The main phenomenon of the Kopački rita area is the forest, in which all processes and relationships of the living and unlively world in the area take place, but clearly with the forest should be managed by those who are authorized and professional. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, Croatia's forests, I'm sorry to say a little bit more about this part since here I am still in the company of the Croatian forest, for the first time in the history of Croatian forests in Baranja began to rule only in '91. the year when hunting forest land then "Jelen" from Belgrade passed under the management of Croatian forests, so until then it did not rule the area we are talking about today, the company from Croatia, but the company from another republic, today another country. Therefore, in '91. In the year, all 720 workers of the company were taken over by the Croatian forests and by the relevant integration of '97. 299 workers were taken over again, so they got here the booklet on which the stamp of the Croatian forests was made and since then a programme was created to restore the devastated forests in the area and a programme to restore the affected hunting economy. I must say that Croatian forests have invested significant funds in this area over 105 million kuna and that, with not only meaning in the restoration of forests, in the restoration of buildings and everything else, and here already today there have been words here to see already certain results, especially on the part of hunting where income is already around 4 million kuna per year which is a significant income and I think it is far greater than that revenue currently... the tourism sectors present in this area, and I hope that in the future there will be far greater income than the other branches, and that it will be smaller from hunting, which means that we expect one development from other branches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what to say is, here's in the spatial plan of even a large part of what branches should be developed. What also bothers me about right here at the Kopački rit nature park where we made a management plan a few years ago that cost quite a lot of money on loans, and that management plan doesn't really benefit much from it, and now we're bringing a spatial plan, and all plans and management plan must be brought back together with a spatial plan that is the highest document. So a few years ago, we had the wrong idea that the management plan would solve everything without having to rely on a spatial plan. I appeal to the Ministry's representatives that in those institutions where no spatial plans have been adopted as soon as they get here on this House to bring themselves, and that we are then further developing other data that should divulge this matter, also this management plan has been done by companies of some strange names Electroproject and I don't know they probably have professionals who could do this but it's illogical that some of such professional things in the field of biological work companies that are some other professions. Also, the cost that was then taken out is not negligible and I believe today it represents a rather large problem for the public institution to repay those funds that were credited back then. The problems of others who have remained there first of all on demining, then the others may also have to say the same thing, given that in this area of income that is being made there, it will not be possible to achieve it to demining the area as soon as possible, but it is necessary for everyone to invest in those areas. And here, I must commend the example and the county that is trying to invest in this area quite and also state-owned enterprises such as forests and HEP that have invested already and water to demining some of it but still remains a large part of the area that has not been demined. Since time has run out, there are a few other things that should be said in the summary and the other part that does not stand, but here, because there is no time at the end, I would conclude that despite the lack of space plan and this illogicality of compliance with other laws that I personally want to support it because it will be easier for people who are there to work on the ground and will still allow for a part of the job to be launched wider, especially in this rural development and tourism development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56792	Thank you very much. We have Mr. Vladimir Šišljagic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56793	Thank you very much. Here, more for the public, I would like to correct my colleague Ledinski when he said that he is lording the forests or Croatian forests to rule from 91st year. Yeah, I could agree but only on paper. Since 91, all of Baranja has been occupied and we've had no control over the area. And another correction. Peaceful reintegration ended on January 15th, 98th, not in 97th. It means a lot to us for a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56794	Thank you very much. Mr. Ledinsky's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56795	Mr. Vice President, I think my colleague hurt Article 206 and 209 because he said something I didn't say. And I don't think it's right for him to fix me that way. I said that peaceful integration started in 97 and I know very well when we started. He said when she was done. So, you know, I didn't say when she finished, but when she started. And it's not right for me to get better, I know very well when it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56796	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The last one in an individual debate is Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56797	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State! Of course, here, when different views have been made on whether this spatial plan that is being taken within the nature park or perhaps one that would be brought into the context of the national park by trying to reach certain differences or benefits, however you wish, I think we must go back to the content of what the spatial plan should give and what its fundamental task is, which is the goal of what we are discussing here today. It is a space, a space with all its resources from people, of natural beauty, of everything that simply exists in that space in which to edit that space, how that space in accordance with those strategic goals that nature park has to set it up and at the same time allow for the fundamental and most significant functions that must come from the plan and that is an adequate valorisation of all participants, of the space, of the people, of all the values that exist on it. Of course, it is obvious that there are completely different approaches to interests in this area, and it is quite clear to me that if I can say so openly that it is visible that from the Croatian forests, Croatian waters, the hunting aspect. I won't call it tourism because apparently all those who spoke in the context of hunting did not mean hunting tourism, because hunting tourism is going to forgive something quite different that we don't even have defined in our nomenclature, activities that we can talk about more specifically. Because if I as a politician can agree to go kill two deer and call it hunting tourism, I'm not sure. In America, one such scheme is reportedly incompletely finished, so I think it's fundamental that we have to deal with here how this area that really according to the natural beauty, specificities and diversity that it offers falls to the very top if we're going to call it the natural values that this country has, how to position it to be effective, to be useful to the space and to the residents who live there and how to achieve the basic task of being exactly what it is and what it's called. And it's a nature park today, tomorrow's national park. How can he be? Look, the national park doesn't become the will of the majority in the Parliament. In order to become a national park, then we could have each of our national parks. The national park requires a different nomenclature of values that must be met and circumstances that must exist but, above all, a certain natural individuality that must be in order to even be discussed. I personally believe and believe that this space has such qualifications and that the qualities are absolutely present here. However, this spatial plan as well as the one before has one negative dimension again. He repeatedly stressed but probably said I was, and unfortunately, the fate of all the spatial plans that relate to nature parks, to national parks that people simply disappeared in them, they disappeared. And it's not clearly the spatial plans. But the fact is that there are no people there, that there is no predicting that the number of inhabitants in the area will increase. I think that's completely unreasonable to me. Our goals can't be to have fewer people there. There must be more people there. In order for more people to be there, we need to meet the demands that the modern world puts before anyone who wants to make a decision about something happening in some space. If something's going to happen, there are rules on how to get something to happen there. Are we going to call sustainable development? Are we going to call it sustainable tourism? Is that what we're going to call a population comeback? If we're going to call it, I don't know what we want to call it, but certain preconditions have to be fulfilled in order for something to happen there at all. At this moment in a minibar, in an inaccessible field, in a deserted house, in an abandoned castle, in a vineyard that no one reads. We can call him the most beautiful person in the world, but at this point he doesn't have his useful value. When he doesn't have the value or the man who's here or wants to be, he can't survive because he doesn't have the resources to survive. Therefore, any spatial plan must be realistic. Real must also be in technical principle, but also in the financial side to see how and how to come out and create these assumptions. Therefore, especially when it comes to Kopački rit, especially when it comes to Slavonia, it is a fundamental prerequisite, a prerequisite for all preconditions to be created even if they are normal conditions that exist at this time in the second or other parts of our country to be there and these are the preconditions to start with the preconditions. So I absolutely support the adoption of this Space Plan because it is necessary, because it opened up the possibility of talking about it today. He opened up the possibility of thinking about whether and when and if the time has already matured to go to the National Park declaration. But first of all, it needs to create reasons to come up with an action plan to realise the assumptions stemming from the Space Plan. This action plan is a kind of strategy that must be armed with tools. The tools are all those who need to follow, but also those who need to try to coordinate different entities. Who naturally have different interests. From the forest industry, from the water economy, from the tourism and follow-up industries, all those who can naturally traffic in the area. Thus, in addition to the restoring ministry that has created this Space Plan, it is necessary to include all the resources in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, local self-government, regional self-government and all those who think that through these and similar projects, it is precisely those steps that we naturally seek, which is that return primarily implies opening a perspective through jobs. Opening a perspective right through these projects that have ahead of them something that we can see very clearly. Something that we can do today if we properly and properly set the whole thing up, we can make it very clear to people who live there in what direction and how they can build and see their future. I therefore, with the support of the Spatial Plan Kopački rit, would like to say that it is necessary to take a full range of projects, strategies and measures of the action plan to try to create assumptions in order to level the criteria, because at this point, this space definitely does not have a uniform criterion for further progress and realisation of the possibilities from the Space Plan as is the case in other parts of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56798	Thank you. A club of independent agents. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56799	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues here is this Space Plan has passed the level of units of local, local self-government and regional self-government. The Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Defense passed. Finally the Government of the Republic of Croatia was adopted and as such is here before us parliamentary representatives at the adoption and I believe from this debate regardless of whether it was a national park, whether the nature park Kopački rit but I think it is approximately, that we agree in one that this area should be maximum protected and preserved, but at the same time that it should be possible to manage in this area, hunting, fishing, of course under the conditions that it assumes that the maximum protection of the natural value of Nature Park Kopački rit. So since this Space Plan, not to prejudge, but I believe it'll be worth ten and a maximum of 15 years. I want to believe that everything in this Space Plan is stated in terms of how to protect this area of Nature Park Kopački rita and the development of the economy but in the context of the protection of nature, therefore, agriculture and hunting and fishing, and in particular tourism and eco tourism, so that all these intentions will be achieved, all these plans listed in the spatial plan and achieved. So I expect that in this part of the Space Plan, the Park of Nature Kopački rit that we will be very soon in this one in Baranja, in Osijek-Baranja County where there is a Nature Park Kopački rit that the state will provide measures for the implementation of all of what is stated in the Space Plan that I say that this House of Higher Consensus will adopt. What I would not only want to warn but also ask, and ask from exactly the state level, to finally and very quickly already in this rebalancing this year's budget provide funds to ensure that the Kopački ass in the area where the mined was mined. I think it's too optimistic to say demining entirely, but to intensively begin demining this area. I continue to believe and demand that in this part the left coast of the Danube be resolved, that the Republic of Croatia establish sovereignty over the entire area of the protected part of the Park of the natural Kopački rit which is still from the left bank of the Danube and which we do not yet have control, where we do not exercise management and management. And, thirdly, I believe and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and according to earlier promises to finally solve the mosquito problem of Kopački rit in an environmentally acceptable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56800	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56801	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is a good spatial plan, and it needs to be accepted. There's not so much like Kopački butt, not in European or global terms. The only difference here is what our relationship to this area is. Some think that there is enough to protect him, and others, along with the government, that protection is already now, an existing protection that is sufficient and that no further protection is needed. I'm surprised at those, because why don't you even better protect what's such a unique value? Those who object to the idea of a national park by saying that a national park is part of a nature that is not affected by human intervention, and then in Kopački rit mentions a fence there, I have to replicate that they don't know what they're talking about. By that Brijuni would never be a national park. There's nothing like nature's will. It bought an Austrian Cooper Wieser as a swamp area full of mosquitoes, as well as today's Kopački ass, and a lot of malaria. So he called Robert Koch and dried up all those swamps, destroyed malaria, made the noise, encased everything, arranged it, and then it could only become a national park. Therefore, that objection is off. Today, I would prefer to discuss the spatial plan of the national park, rather than the spatial plan of nature park. But I'm quite sure that here in this House there will be representatives one day to discuss the spatial plan of the Kopački rit National Park. Because I'm pretty sure there's going to be a generation that understands the need to protect the value that we have, which is uniquely unrepeated, as best we can. And no one can claim that protecting an area as a national park is less than it is when nature park. No one but the hunters. Because they have their own special hunting interest. I understand different interests. I understand the interest of hunters, but I don't think it's their special hunting interest, we need to be above national interest to preserve that beauty of Kopački rit. It says that some activities will have to be coordinated. That's probably true, even though I think it'll be a little hard to reconcile them. It'll be hard to match tourists and hunters. Two hundred and fifty thousand tourists are expected to arrive, so many will be if the hunters don't dispel them with their shots, or if they don't shoot a few tourists. Well, that happens, that happens. The U.S. Vice President shot the judge. And I'm sure that hunt was a little better organized than the Kopeks' ass hunts. I'm sure it's a little bit better, with a lot more protection measures. And it happens, accidents happen every day in the hunt. So what do we have there? He's not a hunter. Someone's gonna say it's not... Even there, here in Kopački ass come hunting those who hunters aren't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just the politicians coming, just like... And now, how do you coordinate these two activities? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How to coordinate the activity of birdwatchers hiding there in the bushes so that they can look hidden at birds and then a little rustling leaves, and the hunter hits them because he's here hunting right now. It's gonna be hard to reconcile, it's gonna be hard to reconcile. And we all need to seriously think about this particular interest, that hohstaple in Kopački rit, subdue to the national interest of preserving and better protecting that unique area. The SDP won't stop, it won't stop until the Kopački ass becomes a national park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56802	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56803	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting this dramatic outflow of Mr. Stazic. He didn't shoot the vice president. He shot his lawyer and his friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56804	And it should be complemented where he was shot. And the esteemed representative Vladimir Šišljagic, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56805	Thank you very much. It's not a fellow Stazic hunt, it's a poacher. But when we talk more about a nearby national park. It is not true that procedures can be performed within the national park as you claim can be carried out. And the protective fence, it's not some kind of protective fence. It's a 70 - mile [70 km] protection fence, 6 feet [2 m] high, and it's just been set up because of wild animals that destroyed agricultural crops. So it's an impressive fence, not some kind of protective fence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56806	And respected representative Marko Širac on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56807	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Let me point out some more facts in this latest review of the Croatian Democratic Community club. First, this is a very quality spatial plan of Nature Park Kopački rit and actually a spatial plan of a new generation and new approach as discussed, analyzed and proposed the preservation of one space, the development of that space, the use of this space in accordance with our laws adopted by this Croatian Parliament. From the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Law on Spatial Planning to the Law on Forests, which is mentioned here that some things are not adequately spatially planned, behind which I would not stop and I claim that solutions are very correct and high-quality. In my view and at the point of view of us from the Croatian Democratic Community, it is a spatial plan that has respected all those protection measures that need to be applied to a place called Nature Park based on our legislation and offered appropriate spatial solutions for all activities that exist today in this area. Special concern in this spatial-planned documentation is precisely for citizens who today exist in these two settlements. For them it is envisaged to revitalise these settlements, for them to leave our traditional fishing in Kopački rit where competent institutions issue 15 fishing permits every year. For them, it is also envisaged to remain fish surfaces that would otherwise have nothing to do in that area. So there are possibilities and resources that ensure the existence and life of the people in that space. I would especially like to point out that that complex of Tixvesh Castle is intended for its, which is protected as a cultural good, that its reconstruction is foreseen, that it is intended for a European environmental centre with a bio-ecological station, an information centre. So these are all preconditions in order to revive one activity that could not exist there for 10 years, which is this visiting tourism which in this space-planning documentation is a way of organising it, performing well described and well proposed. Of course, after this spatial plan, the public institution Nature Park "Kopački rit" must make its own management program with the area of nature park. He can't be like that now, as someone remembers, but he has to stick to the provisions that have been put into this spatial plan and that I hope when we vote, we'll actually accept it. And in the end, I want to say this. That the Municipality of Bilje, the Princes of Vinograd and the city of Osijek must immediately join within certain deadlines which are in the decision on the adoption of this spatial plan and prescribed, amend their spatial plans and comply with the solutions made in this spatial plan. And finally, Mr. President, the Croatian Democratic Community club and its representatives will support the adoption of this spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56808	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State doesn't have a final review. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on a spatial nature park plan Kopački butt. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and by Agent Zeljko Ledinski. I'd like the Secretary of State Mr. Snotty to show himself. Amendments of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56810	The amendments of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection shall be fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56811	Thank you. They become an integral part of the decision. The amendment of MP Zeljko Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56812	The amendment is not accepted. The Explanatory Act, i.e. Article 37, states which bodies, which give consent to certain types of plans. Article 37 The forest law recently adopted states that this type of plan is not being agreed by the ministry, and as regards also the issues the MP wants to settle in this point, this is being regulated by the management plan of Nature Park Kopački rit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56813	The vote, the representative is not present. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Not accepted, 13 for, 6 abstentions, 73 against. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the taking of a spatial nature park plan Kopački ass. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, I am voting on the next conclusion, it is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish appropriate measures and sources of financial resources to demining the area of Nature Park Kopački rit. The Secretary of State agrees to accept that conclusion. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56816	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the bankruptcy law was passed in 96 and since then bankruptcy proceedings have been conducted in the Republic of Croatia under the provisions of this law. The truth works to say that so far has been changed several times, but all these changes have not yet, at least not fully, achieved the goal and purpose they were meant to achieve, which is to contribute to the rapid completion of the bankruptcy process. I know that often, often and justly, the judiciary finds itself guilty of certain proceedings. In society and the judiciary, it is necessary to contribute to the resolution of certain relations. However, it seems to me that, when it comes to bankruptcy proceedings, it is still not entirely at least necessary to have that guilt on the judiciary. Why? Because bankruptcy proceedings are in order and above all quite difficult, a layered economic issue. Why am I saying that? Because there is a bankruptcy procedure when a certain debtor, and before that the legal entity can no longer operate, because clearly he no longer has the means, has no property to deal with. In our practice and reality, too, it happens that the bankruptcy process usually occurs too late when there are almost no more assets that could go into bankruptcy to cash in and make up for all the creditors. So in economic terms, the loss is multiple. There is no longer any economic operator to operate, workers, employees are left without a job, which is an additional social element to be taken into account and, of course, the creditors who have operated with that entity also have difficulties in their settlement. However, since the bankruptcy proceedings are still a court case, at least in the conduct of this bankruptcy procedure, there is room and still the possibility for the judiciary, the bankruptcy courts, these are the commercial courts which enable us to carry out bankruptcy proceedings faster, simpler, and that the costs of conducting bankruptcy proceedings are reduced as much as possible. This is the purpose and purpose of these amendments and of supplementing the bankruptcy law, thus simplifying as much as possible and speeding up these procedures and reducing the costs of the bankruptcy process and to some extent harmonize the bankruptcy procedure with the legal bankruptcy of the European Union. How is this meant to be achieved by these amendments and by the additions of the law? I will briefly explain several important moments on which these amendments are based and complemented, and they relate to the creditors and their position, then to the bankruptcy managers, to transparency, transparency of the process, to the costs of the proceedings and other obligations of the bankruptcy and to the duration of the procedure. When it comes to creditors, these amendments and additions of the law are actually equalised by workers with other creditors of the first higher payment order, they have until now and before these changes I must stress, were in the first higher payment order, but not with all their claims in bankruptcy rather than just up to 1/3 of their salaries and allowances, now they with all their demand enter the first payment order, first higher payment order. In addition, these amendments and additions to the law are abolished by privileged creditors of the bankruptcy, for example, so far at least by lawyers who have had the right to a priority payment of the costs of representation incurred the last 6 months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. So this will now, if these amendments are adopted and the law is passed. Likewise, religious rights are limited by separate settlement. These are different credentials that have provided their claims in a different way, to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, and that is, if they have not tried without success before and without success to settle in the executive procedure. It is also prescribed that all creditors are obliged, that they may, within a specified period, enter into bankruptcy proceedings, declare their claim. The paper here is that this is now up to all the believers, so I'm making bankrupt believers, but also to those who have their distinct and exclusive right. In fact, the practice has shown that so far since they had no obligation to vary,... Believers did not do what indeed in practice led to unnecessary delay in the procedure and possible assessment of the wrong bankruptcy mass, its size, which then delayed the procedure, led to a recurrence of the hearing and similar and ultimately made it difficult to charge the creditors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are the important ones in the short newspaper that apply to the believers. The second group of changes refers to bankruptcy managers. Changes to date on the one hand, on the other hand and public debates, and have often been repeated for these speakers on various occasions when talking about the judiciary, have often been apostrophealed by bankruptcy managers such as those who, in some ways, make it difficult to conduct bankruptcy proceedings, or are being exploited by those proceedings, or are persons who are not capable enough or competent enough to carry out a complex procedure as a bankruptcy procedure, or not the case itself to be conducted by the judge, but the situation as bankruptcy managers in a particular legal person over which bankruptcy proceedings have been opened. The fact is, the bankruptcy manager isn't that easy, I don't intend to defend them. However, the fact is that when the bankruptcy manager takes over as a whole management, the supervisory board, all the bodies that are in one company. So, the bankruptcy manager, I'm saying that for this reason, must have knowledge, skills, experiences that are simply so demanding, and it requires us to appoint really people who are capable of bankruptcy, i.e. they can meet all these multiple requirements. Therefore, when amending this Law, it is actually proposed that a change be made in respect of persons who may be appointed as bankruptcy managers. So all individuals are now equating in terms of their right to become bankruptcy managers. But all those persons who otherwise have to have high professional training must pass the exam. Therefore, they must pass the exam and be on the list which, according to the Law proposal, at least in the first reading, should be established by the Ministry of Justice. That's because there have been more changes so far. One and the last was to be lawyers or companies who registered for it. However, practice has shown that on the one hand lawyers, I would not underestimate fellow lawyers, sometimes simply because of my education, education,... That's not exactly what they're up to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, there was insufficient interest in the law profession to participate, or to be bankruptcy managers in bankruptcy proceedings. So it would also lead to a situation where there are simply no bankruptcy managers who would be interested in it or of course be able to perform it. Amendments and additions shall also be provided for the Minister to adopt a regulation by means of a sublegal act setting out more closely the criteria for the implementation, i.e. the assessment of the work of bankruptcy managers on the one hand, and to lay down criteria and ways to determine the maximum number of bankruptcy proceedings that one administrator could conduct. Because you are all witnessing that frequent complaints were that bankruptcy managers simply have too many companies over which they are bankrupt managers, which of course affects the quality or can affect the quality of their work. It is further an obligation for the manager to provide insurance corresponding to the value of the foreseeable bankruptcy mass. So to answer for the damage that the bankruptcy managers would have done to the creditor. So far, believers have had the right to choose another bankruptcy manager in their congregation. That's logical, the believers are the ones who are most interested in reaching the settlement of their search. However, it is now proposed that the person whom they would also propose be the person who is on the list of bankruptcy managers and does not intend to limit their freedom, but rather, in fact, to influence the quality and professional skills of bankruptcy managers. Because I said, it's really one complex task that needs first knowledge, and on the other hand, and in practice, it needs to be able to do that. The third group of amendments that it wants to actually improve, simplifying the bankruptcy process refers to transparency of the procedure. This means that, among other changes proposed, all public statements such as judicial solutions, calls, notices will also be published via the Internet, and for example, by publishing the sale of parts of the bankruptcy on the internet, more competitiveness is achieved... and speeds up the process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remind you that in the previous amendments to the Executive Act, we have prescribed that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is headed by an eyewitness of up to 50 thousand kunas and real estates that are in the executive procedure. Also now, this practice has shown as a very useful solution, in all decisions and solutions, in fact to decisions, so solutions and conclusions, with the company's names will also write its parent number. Therefore, as it were and there would be no dispute to which the subject was concerned. A bankruptcy procedure that should actually be brought about by restrictions on bankruptcy and enable the payment to the debtors especially if it takes a long time, actually eats itself in a way and causes large costs of the bankruptcy process. Therefore, the aim of these amendments is indeed to reduce the cost of bankruptcy proceedings. So that these amendments are proposed, among other things, to achieve that goal, to initiate litigation, work and dispute investigations, no longer burden the cost of proceedings with the real value of the dispute, the value of the disputed demand, but the value of the case of the dispute against which the court fees and the costs of the lawyer are calculated to a maximum of 10 thousand kuna. The actual costs of the proceedings shall also be determined by the Judge on the basis of a reasoned and documented written cost report. Further deadlines for certain stages of the procedure shall continue to be introduced in relation to the duration of the procedure in order to minimise the overall duration of the procedure. Thus, it is proposed that the process of establishing the conditions for opening a bankruptcy procedure, therefore, cannot last longer than 3 months. The appeal procedure cannot last longer than 40 days from the date on which the High Commercial Court received its appeal. The bankruptcy plan must now, according to this proposal, be adopted within 6 months of the date on which the accession decision is taken to draw up a plan and litigation case which is contested must continue within 8 days of the receipt of the dispute decision with the challenger continuing the case on behalf and on behalf of the debtor. The amendments and additions to the law are also deleted, so there is no longer any institution for the sale of the property of the debtor as a whole, so the role of the FINA which was to carry out this procedure is to be deleted from this Act. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is in short, I hope, and in fact, what is the objective of these amendments and of supplementing the proposed law. It was attended by judges and lawyers and other persons in practice in order to offer their amendments and additions to the solutions for which the practice has shown that they are necessary and considered to be necessary in practice in order to list the objectives of the process obtained. This is the proposal for a law in the first reading, therefore all the comments and suggestions resulting from this debate will try to install in the final draft law in order for it to come to you better in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56817	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56818	Thank you very much. The secretary of state claimed that the lawyers were not up to this task, however that is not true. The only question is whether lawyers and others who have been invited, who are allowed to do the job of a acquired manager, do so knowingly and legally or not, and not for not being educated or not, that remark simply does not stand. In the end, such an observation was identical to that of public notebooks that they were unable to carry out desert debates or executions, so it turned out that there was no other solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56819	Thank you. Legislative Committee, Justice Committee. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56820	Thank you, Mr. President, for your honor of the secretary of state, your colleagues and your colleagues. There is no doubt that the Law on the bankruptcy procedure is always causing public interest because it is precisely bankruptcy proceedings in practice that created different suspicions, doubtless, vagueness, and always in practice resulting in the length of the proceedings. The last amendment to the 2003 Banking Act wanted to speed up the bankruptcy process and wanted to correct one of the biggest injustices, i.e. that the workers with their claims appear in the first payment order. A good part of it has been achieved and I welcome this progress where it is even more precise, but we also have some objections that I will make on behalf of the SDP club later on. What seems to me to be of the highest value, and in order to combat the long-term nature of the proceedings, is to amend the Bank’s Banking Act, which took place in 2003, which points to the government’s powers to regulate payment and compensation by its regulation, i.e. the reward to the bankruptcy managers themselves. Namely, what happened until then was that the bankruptcy managers had just been stimulated to delay the procedure because they had been paid monthly, and those who were very consciously carrying out their duties had failed in a very short procedure saw that they were essentially played and did not receive that monthly advance of 19, 20 thousand kuna per month where. So this one was an existing good step to move perhaps into these changes that are right in front of us, which, as we have heard now from Madam Secretary of State, have a further goal of speeding up the process. However, here is perhaps just the first reading that I am very specific about certain provisions, which we at the SDP club, which we have at the SDP club, are resentful in terms of improvement and text and some elaborateness, so that this bankruptcy procedure can truly meet its purpose of the speed and collection of bankruptcy creditors, which is ultimately his goal and purpose. In the text of the proposal for this proposal for a law in Article 3, we see that a legal deadline is laid down until the bankruptcy procedure, how long the bankruptcy procedure may take, or the time limit when the bankruptcy procedure can and should be completed. It is a norm that will remain bare norm, an inexecutable norm unless the time limit for bankruptcy has been set, because unfortunately what happens is not often but regularly in the bankruptcy proceedings are litigation, litigation within the bankruptcy proceedings, and for the crazy one, we have set a time limit for bankruptcy proceedings unless we have set a deadline for bankruptcy proceedings, and within which time the case must be completed. After all, this will not be new in our legislation, because if we remember the last significant amendments to the Law on the litigation of the case, this Law on the litigation of litigation is currently talking about speed and time limits when work disputes must be settled. So, we have a parallel here, and for the sake of rounding up our legal system, and that's exactly why bankruptcy could really be done, so that this norm that a well-proposed and meaningfully proposes could be implemented, but I say it will remain empty unless the deadlines for litigation are set. Because why do we point that out in particular? The bankruptcy mass is, in fact, the most important in the bankruptcy process because the bankruptcy is also dependent on the settlement process, but also on the conduct of the proceedings in situations where the threat of suspending the procedure because of the lack of mass which is perfectly clear then that the procedure is impossible to complete until it is determined whether the debtor has the property and how much its value is. The procedures are also carried out in order to establish the basis of the requests reported, and it is impossible to complete the bankruptcy proceedings until the end of those proceedings because the status of the credentials whose investigation is just and the subject matter of the dispute has not been defined in the sense of whether or not it participates in the division. It is therefore clear that it is necessary to speed up the litigation of the outcome of which is directly dependent on the outcome as well as the speed to end the bankruptcy process. I think that this observation of ours is perfectly reasonable and that it fits exactly and that it complements and makes this idea of legal regulation of bankruptcy proceedings possible. However, regardless of the improvement of other legal provisions, it still seems that somehow these amendments to the bankruptcy law continue to suffer from poor systematicity, the dispersion of certain provisions which have so far been all these amendments and were and the existing law simply so I would say in the wrong direction and direct them. So perhaps an even more significant step was to take and make a whole new perhaps more modern approach to the whole bankruptcy process. Of course it's a more demanding job, but in terms of accepting this and some of the other remarks that I'm going to refer to here, I think, however successful we are in a satisfactory way, we are going to solve this still burning and acute problem in our judiciary and in the conduct of these proceedings. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The bankruptcy law we find unspeakable because it introduces so-called. elastic term "A person who has the necessary expertise, business experience." It seems that everything is said and in practice we know many laws abound in these terms necessary expertise, business experience. However, this is interpreted differently and then there are different problems, problems of conductivity in practice, or of inadequate selection of certain persons. It is namely one of the conditions for the appointment of a bankruptcy manager. Obviously, the quoted condition is not defined because it is not clear on the basis of what it will appreciate whether someone has the necessary expertise and business experience. We think that we should determine exactly when this condition is considered to be met and this in a way that determines, for example, three or five years of working experience in the management places in the economy or some other objective criterion. They are not easy to find, and I know that this is a problem with the legislator, perhaps with us. But precisely because of such a line of minor resistance, our own problems arise in practice, or other criteria arise, the criteria of familiarity, and then we all know that I am not repeating what they are ultimately and freaks and transforming themselves into. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The bankruptcy law determines that the assembly of creditors will choose a new bankruptcy manager if it is for the majority other than the majority, so the decision is made if the sum of the claims of the creditor who voted in favour of a decision is more than the sum of the claims of the creditors who voted against that decision and the majority of the creditors who voted. So, part that reads: "voted by most of the believers who voted" enables what? That believers whose demands are minor to directly affect the resolution and appointment of bankruptcy managers are thus sabotaged by the will of high-requested creditors, who have high claims towards the creditor and whose attitudes should be decisive in these situations. We therefore believe that this part of the proposed text should be expelled and it should be possible for large creditors who have large claims to decide on the crucial issues of the procedure in this case on the resolution and appointment of bankruptcy managers. I note this precisely and for this reason, not because minor claims are also not demand and should not be taken into account, but the fact is that small believers are easily manipulated and yet again in order to avoid the payment or collection of large claims and large creditors. In Article 22 of the proposed amendments and additions, it is proposed to amend Article 38 which regulates the right of members of the Committee of Trustees to the award for work on the Committee of Trustees. We believe that the question of rewards to members and committees deserves a serious debate in view of the fact that they are provided with cost compensation and it is a body of bankruptcy which is only an operational body and which operates primarily in the interest of the credentials, therefore in its own personal interest which should not be particularly rewarded and yet on the burden of costs of then bankruptcy proceedings. In fact, the believers themselves are the most interested participants in this process, so they should not be rewarded for it either. Therefore, with that salary in the Committee of Trustees because they have precisely by their own nature and right and duty to take permitted actions in order to protect their interests. Article 24 of the proposed amendments and additions shall be intervened in the existing Article 38d in such a way as to establish that the right to vote in the congregation of creditors has bankruptcy creditors at the level of their established investigations. We believe that the current Article 1 of this article, which regulated the right to vote in such a way that it belonged to the believers whose claims were recognised by the bankruptcy manager and did not challenge which of the creditors with the right to vote, was much better regulated this issue. Namely, according to the proposed amendment, no believer whose demand has been challenged by any believer who has reported the claim in a bankruptcy procedure whether or not the request has been granted to him, so whether he or she is in the assembly will allow for the abuse of his right by these creditors whose claims are not recognised at the test hearing, so that they will unfoundedly dispute the claims of other believers who will not have the right to vote in the assembly because of that fact. Therefore, the existing position or decision by which the right to vote in the assembly should be maintained should not only be held by creditors whose claims have been challenged by those who have the status of creditors with their claims. With this proposal, you will complicate to an unprecedented extent the situation. So think about it again, and this existing solution in this sense was because of what I've put into the explanation better. In Article 75 of the proposed amendments and additions to which it is intervened in Article 173 of the opinion that paragraph 2 of the proposed amendments and Article 173 should be regulated in a way that accurately lists within which time-limits from the introduction into office of the bankruptcy manager, the creditor should, in a visible place in the business space of the creditor, provide for a list of investigations of workers as well as former workers as the law and provides for that term. This means that this 15-day deadline should be bound on the day of the introduction of the bankruptcy manager and should be taken, for example, for 30 days and not for the day scheduled for the hearing. For the simple reason that, in most situations, 15 days before the hearing, there is little for workers and former workers to report their claims and that the bankruptcy manager may control them in terms of their recognition or non-recognition. Therefore, the bankruptcy administrator should have a 30-day period of introduction into the procedure to draw up a list of workers' requests. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In fact, the secretors are believers to whom bankruptcy proceedings do not apply at all and who exercise their rights beyond this procedure. There's another nomotechnically, in Article 82, we'll immediately mention there's no in our terminology, "success in litigation" that you change with "get litigation", get litigation, get litigation. Succeed in a lawsuit and get a lawsuit. Think about it, too. However, what I would like to look at in particular and something that has caused great public awareness. So far, bankruptcy managers have been appointed president of the trade, the High Court of Commerce. Now that power is given to the minister. If we were not satisfied with the existing solution then surely we will not be satisfied, even less satisfied with this proposed solution. First of all, the minister of this portfolio, who has a whole series of duties in reform, will not deal with these issues. It raises suspicions and suspicions that politics will be dominant in determining administrative, appointing or determining bankruptcy managers, that someone will continue to have a large number of bankruptcys, and others will never come to order. However, I also agree that it does not necessarily have to be decided by the judicial authority itself. We can put one body together, and here I suggest the Proposer thinks a little bit. It's not a good solution only for the minister to do it. First of all, there's no time for that, and it's not good because of the simple perception in the public that it's impossible that she didn't get involved in politics. Thus, it is an unnecessary, completely missed solution that will not solve the existing problems if we have any doubt that only one man does so. I think one, one commission, and one from the representatives. or legislative and executive authorities and certainly judicial [[- Okay, okay.]] There you can't deprive them, on that trail improved the existing situation. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56821	Thank you very much. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56822	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the first reading of the Amendment and the addition of the bankruptcy law. The bankruptcy procedure is the procedure to be implemented for the joint settlement of the creditors, acquired by the debtor by cashing in his assets and by dividing the funds collected to the creditors. The bankruptcy shall be opened when the creditor is unable to pay or is over-indebted. The situation with us regarding bankruptcy proceedings is such that it is indisputable that in the Republic of Croatia we have a very large number of bankruptcys and that the main characteristic of all these bankruptcys is that they last for a very long time and that very few believers in them settle. As a rule of short sleeves in our bankruptcys remain employees, there remain creditors, and of course the state remains, still Mirovinski, Health Fund. You're all usually very little billing. The only ones who charge something are... Believers, mostly in the rule of the bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reasons for this, for these bankruptcy proceedings are multiple and we could talk, I don't know from privatised conversion, transition, institutional and any other, but in any case it's undeniable that these proceedings are ineffective, they last long and they last slow. The last amendment to the law that was much more extensive in 2003 was indeed good intentions and we expected from some institutes that it would really get a much better result than it is. However, these changes and complements are based precisely on the practice that has shown that some institutions do not respond, that some institutes do not give, do not give the results that are expected. And so these changes are actually based on experience, on practice and trying to fix certain solutions to actually make bankruptcy work better. Now we come to a fundamental reason why our bankruptcy is slow? What makes our bankruptcy ineffective? Is this the institutional framework of this, this law that is before us or is the fact somewhere else? In our opinion this Law was done of course by, according to the reputation of the German Banking Law and actually these regulations are quite correct and what we believe in these 2 readings will be quite certainly an even better framework legislative than we have so far. However, the fundamental problem with our bankruptcy is actually the time when bankruptcy opens. That's what the secretary of state said in one sentence of her presentation. Our bankruptcy usually opens too late. They open up when actually more, when the value of the assets relative to the claims that the creditors have against the creditor is actually minimal. The bankruptcy is opened when the company is insolvent not within these legal deadlines spoken of but when the company has been blocked for many years. That's when we open up a bankruptcy procedure. And as long as we don't solve that question, I'm afraid whatever law we pass, whatever institutes in the Banking Law put on me that such bankruptcy, so late open won't yield results. This is similar, we could compare that as in medicine, it is important that patients in time are diagnosed with some disease to determine their therapy and to start treatment on time then he has a chance. It's also in this case. When the bankruptcy opens in time then there is much greater certainty that both state and employees and creditors will collect their claims, but there is a certain success in the bankruptcy plan or that re-shuffle we talked about. That means bankruptcy doesn't always have to be the end. The bankruptcy doesn't always have to be necessary, it doesn't always have to leave people without a job. A bankruptcy can sometimes even be a way out. The bankruptcy could be the beginning of something new. Because when we compromise how bankruptcys are conducted outside, they're spent in moments when it's still possible to save things. But it's actually a pretty guilty perception of bankruptcy with us. We see this from the fact that you pay attention to bankruptcy in us do not even open up employees who are very often interested in actually collecting their large claims in bankruptcy. And who even had certain benefits in opening up bankruptcy means they don't pay that fee, they don't pay that high fee of costs that are actually determined and that restricts individual creditors. However, employees in our country should also underline not using this institute. We have, not in this Law, a law on trade societies of a particular institute that prescribes the responsibility of the administration where it is even nominated and found to be a criminal offence if a member of the administration or administration is? The members of the administration shall, within a legal period of time after they have determined that the insolvency company does not initiate insolvency proceedings, that they are then criminally appropriate. However, as we can see, we do not have such judgments in practice. But at the last meeting of the Justice Committee, we heard from the representatives of the State's Attorney's Office that over the past year, one of 300 such procedures was conducted, which is certainly not a pointless legal provision to strengthen the responsibility of the administration when such reasons for bankruptcy occur to be bankrupt and opened. Because why do you know the administration in its nature is not interested in bankruptcy? Well, it's because she's running out of function. Instead of the director, a bankruptcy manager is coming instead of the manager. Dissolve the bodies and someone else comes and makes them impossible in all the machinations they've been dealing with. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the liability of the rules of procedure of the participants in our market. In fact, it is necessary to build one business, one financial and every other culture in business, because it must be of interest to the company's own owner when he falls into certain problems to actually initiate and open a bankruptcy procedure himself and to tell his creditors that I have therefore come into a difficult position from which I cannot get out. Of course, however, that is not the case with us. As far as this law is concerned, this law as the State Secretary and stated there are 4 or 5 groups of changes to which they apply and I think each of these groups and each of these provisions that are being amended will contribute to a better and faster conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. In particular, we find good provisions regarding the bankruptcy manager. As a club, we don't object to the list of bankruptcy managers being determined by the ministry. We welcome this so that now all bankruptcy managers must have passed a professional exam for the bankruptcy manager again. That's, that's a very important thing. But what I think the secretary of state would be good to see until the second reading. In public, one really provides one, creates one very bad picture when we see that individual bankruptcy managers have 20 bankruptcy procedures. You know, that, that I don't think can really be such a superman, there's no one who can lead 20 bankruptcys. And it's just that one solution is illogical. I agree, he doesn't even have to write such a thing in the law because logic dictates that it is meaningless to appoint a man to conduct 20 bankruptcy proceedings. But given that this is happening in practice, we put it when we're changing the law, we try to discuss it until the second reading, and we put in a provision that the bankruptcy manager can't run more than 5 or 6 bankruptcy procedures already. This will make it clear that we want more professionalism and certainly more responsibility. Also, I think that these reasons are very good about the transparency of procedures to publish certain acts now and electronically can also be placed. It is also good to have an eyewitness run in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce where these data will be obtained which are movable, which are properties on our property, let us call it a conditional bankruptcy market. To welcome a special provision that restricts that the previous procedure for determining the reason actually for bankruptcy can not go on forever, because then before we launch the bankruptcy procedure, we are running this previous procedure and we are having a debate about whether there is any reason to open up the bankruptcy. You've limited it here to three months, which is very good. The appeal procedure concerning decisions brought against the bankruptcy appeal is also very well limited to 60 days. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law in its first reading. But what I said, whatever legislative framework we do, unless one business financial and any other culture and way of acting on our market is changed, we will hardly achieve more favourable results by such an improved law. And that includes actually knowing the responsibility of our other state bodies. Because bankruptcy can run as creditors and our institutions, for retirement and for health because they all see that some company, that some craftsman, an individual trader, has been paying neither pension nor health for years. And why don't you run a bankruptcy procedure in that story? Maybe we'll be on time, maybe, maybe the Bureau will charge us for something in that story. Because with this kind of guard, by not taking over, we'll be in a position to keep short sleeves and these funds, that they'll remain short sleeves and employees and all the other believers. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports it. The changes you have listed here are quite correct and are going to improve the solutions that have been changed in 2003. But without these other facts, it means without one coordinated work and all other state bodies, we'll hardly get better results on the bankruptcy plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56823	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. The club loses its word. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56824	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. The HSP Club has a significant number of objections and suggestions on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law that we can share in 3 main groups. The first group were the general nature observations, the second principled and third individual which I will seek to present in my individual debate. Of the most important remarks of general nature, we point out that we must agree on what is the objective and what is the basis of the bankruptcy law. Will the bankruptcy law be developmental? Because the sole purpose of the bankruptcy law is to calm the faithful? If that's the point, then we're very different. For us, it's not just the goal of calming down the faithful, it's that firm, that legal person trying to get on their feet. So, you keep working, not that things happen to us that happen to people at 40, 50 years of life are left without a job after a bankruptcy. And we know for ourselves what the situation is and the question is when will they be able to find it? So that's the first important difference between our position and the SDP club and the HDZ club. Unfortunately, we've had a lot of cases that the existing bankruptcy law, I mean the one in '96, was unfortunately in the function of implementation, conversion and privatisation. It means that he made it possible for someone to bail out, who illegally acquired something to get real estate through bankruptcy proceedings. And as the workers finished, we have a considerable number of examples, from Sljemen workers and all others who came to Mark's square or throughout Croatia. And in particular, it was that change in 2003 where workers were not with all their claims in the first payment order, which we support this time, and then only the HSP club submitted amendments to make workers enter full, for the full amount of their claims in the first succession order. The second thing is to comment on the general nature of this, too, that many bankruptcy procedures have been used so far to break competition. It's a situation with, say, TDR, with the tobacco factory, we unfortunately have a lot of these situations and it means the first thing we think about in the HSP club, that we have to agree. Is just the purpose of the bankruptcy law the pacifying of the credentials. If it's for you, it's not for us. For us, trying to put this company on its feet first and keeping jobs. As regards the observations of the general nature, we still believe that there was a need to go with the new whole law, meaning no amendments and additions, because basically here, the draft law on amendments and additions has some 115 articles and we think it would be more appropriate to go to the new overall, but with these fundamental objectives of the implementation of the bankruptcy procedure, because it is a sad fact that the bankruptcy law in Croatia becomes one of the essential laws, that trade unions fight to be better connected to the first payment order. This tells enough about the economic situation in Croatia and how many bankruptcys have been carried out so far and how they are all finished better not to speak at all. Now he would look back on the club's name on the remarks of principle nature that we also have a significant number, which is that we should consider introducing so-called. pre-warrant proceedings. Why do I say that? Namely, there are many entities that should be held, businesses that have certain conditions or are recognised by their meaning, names in Croatia, and come into a situation of indifference, responsibilities. That's what mahogany hides the cover that competition wants to destroy. So in such situations it should be considered to open up the possibility of a previous bankruptcy procedure in order to solve this part with creditors, but also to protect this company and everything else, because in this way we will prevent these monopolies and various games that go in terms of destroying competition and market management throughout Croatia, and that is very much, it should be considered and regulated in this way. We know that there's always this part there that should be seen, determined, that depends on the credentials that normally trigger that part, but I'm saying we have to keep in mind that there are so-called. and hidden interests which are essentially intended to destroy their competition, and these same bankruptcy proceedings have a significant number. We also need to point out from the observation of a fundamental nature, that it is necessary to consider that both the bankruptcy judge and the bankruptcy administrators are equal in the business as together to do the job, so we cannot say that the bankruptcy procedure alone is responsible for the bankruptcy management, because the bankruptcy judge is now placed in the law, has greater powers but no small responsibilities. We'll see this in particular in cases where we have the appointment of the jury judges' trade court, so you'll see that the list is covered by pensioners all those bankruptcy judges who were before. So we go into one part of the monopoly of various games and the whole circle is closed. A circle has been closed to achieve what workers can do on the roads without rest and without having any possibility of re-employing at all. I also have to say on behalf of the club that it's beautifully said that the objectives of the law are equalized in the first... But unfortunately it was not carried out through the text of the law that pensioners, not pensioners, but believers were even. [[You don't understand.]] We still have a group of favored creditors if you look at the text of the law, with your own position with the right to separate settlement, means priority in settling the subject has and they gain advantage over the others. For now, and interestingly, these are mostly financial institutions now, so banks and insurance companies. Banks and insurance companies, and in many cases these banks also participated in the destruction of competition. We know the situation ourselves, they've been borrowing companies, they've had to take loans, and then the bank's opening up bankruptcy over them. And which one do we have of the Croatian bank so that we can protect her in these favors of this group of creditors? Believers who have initiated court proceedings for all of their possible claims on any basis are obliged to propose, must submit a report of bankruptcy claims indicating the number of files, a statement of the court in which the court has been brought up and of the relevant documentation based on the case dispute initiated. In this way, with the documentation of the claim, it would be possible to suspend the conduct of the procedure through recognition of the basic claim. Now, around the deadlines. The deadlines set for carrying out the bankruptcy proceedings are unrealistic, since in practice there is almost no judicial procedure that is legally completed within three years without mentioning any further necessary time to collect the payment from its debtor in the event of the success of the bankruptcy debt dispute with all legal options. In the event that the creditor has the property, it is necessary to carry out an assessment of the same, and if it is a fixed one that is not in the land books properly recorded, which is in many cases, then only this procedure today takes two or more years, without talking about the time of the deposit of the property. Now it means the part where we come in 3+3 all these situations are going to happen and we don't know how they're going to get out of it. It will always come out so that this property will be sold at no market price but far lower and will again go to the detriment of who, to the harm of the workers. Furthermore, it is also important to state, insurance of a bankruptcy manager from liability through insurance companies, as stated by the bill, and will continue to be highly questionable. In fact, since the insurance companies have set very high insurance charges, there is rarely money in bankruptcy that this provision can be realised. It is also possible to implement it more easily through, say, the Chamber of Banks, which would already have access to the chamber, which would mean that by accessing the chamber itself, they could be secured from minimum amounts. It is interesting about this chamber situation, we have in all others, that in time at least what was said in the media, it was said about the World Bank project on the aid of trade courts, and it was envisaged the amount of financial resources to set up the Chamber of Banks and to equip the chamber with the necessary information and other means. It was also announced to the public that the Republic of Croatia signed a $5m loan agreement with the World Bank on this programme. It is also important to say what he knows about the bankruptcy process is an important situation. So, from the provision of the bankruptcy law, the provision of opening a recognizable jury account of a creditor, previously led under that code 690, makes it much more difficult for a bankruptcy manager to work with very frequent blockades of a creditor by various solutions by creditors or lawyers who should not do so, but that happens. And it's all based on the actions before the bankruptcy process is opened. So, I say, I will teach in an individual debate and give a considerable number of remarks of an individual nature. All of this suggests that it would be more appropriate to have a new whole law and to think differently about the bankruptcy process and to protect both workers' interests and the possibility of leaving the company on its feet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56825	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56826	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, I point out the satisfaction of the content of the Amendments and Supplements Act, as it is evident that at least part of the proposal has been consulted by the profession and that the rules of profession and protection of creditors are in the first plan, and that the interests of individual groups of participants are in the bankruptcy process in the second plan. What we in Croatia are not satisfied with is the fact that we are not satisfied with the delay of a full 15 months compared to the adopted conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on 28 April 2004 when the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Croatian Party of pensioners with 76 votes in favour, 7 against and 9 abstentions reached the next conclusion. I quote: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes within 90 days to carry out an analysis of the purpose and effectiveness of the latest amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law, National Journal No 123/03 and Regulation 127 of the National Journal of 2003, and to refer to the parliamentary procedure the comprehensive amendments and additions of the bankruptcy law, in line with the views of experts and the views of the social partners, in order to achieve greater efficiency in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings." As a matter of fact, we are dissatisfied with the fact that the representatives of the Croatian Parliament did not receive that analysis, and we have no idea if it was done. We also have no information on the level of compliance of this proposal among the social partners. This is one of the key laws that must be desired for the social partners, not a imposed solution. What is certainly good is that I do this proposal in the first reading, that it will probably not cause as much controversy as it has caused in this assembly this morning, the final proposal of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport. Therefore, the promoter has plenty of time to do those actions to which the Croatian Parliament concludes and to refer in writing and analysis of the state and information on the consent of the social partners to all representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I hope that the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health will also be declared an interested working body and that this Bill proposal will be manifested. This could be one teaching case that one step backwards can mean a step forward. Namely, what's this about? We're going back to the bankruptcy state before the last changes in 2003. In my view, this situation was much more quality, but it was probably not a final state, and that was why it was the conclusion that a full analysis of the situation in this area was made and that what fellow Kovacevic had potentiated might be made of a whole new bankruptcy law. In particular, it is good that workers as believers return to the first payment order. It is good, therefore, that the social component is represented in this way, but we believe that the correct views of the union centres are, that the existing formulation of Article 173(2). The bankruptcy law is better and more practical and more unequivocal from now on proposed solution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law and to remain in force so far a provision under which the bankruptcy manager is obliged to draw up a list of all claims of employees and former employees of debtors who have reached the opening of bankruptcy and to present to them on the signing of the application of their claims, we do not have any other relevant objections on the very basis of the bill. However, we have principled observations that the causes of all the problems and negativity that arise in the implementation of the legal provisions, that is, their incompetence, are being sought in the poor existing legal solutions, and we have therefore convinced that we will change bad practice by changing the changes and making existing norms. Frequent legal changes and additions except that they are very expensive do not contribute to the stability of the legal system and to the creation of a stable and orderly economic environment. This general assessment also fully fits into very frequent amendments to the legislative legislation which treats the area of implementation of bankruptcy procedures. Here are a few ecluent examples that confirm this state of mind. The proposal for an amending and supplementing law proposes to amend Article 4(4) in such a way that it is now read as follows: "I consider that the debtor is incompetent to pay if he has registered outstanding obligations with any legal person who carries out payment operations for him for a period of more than 60 days, which should have been charged on the basis of valid payment grounds without further consent by the debtor from any of his accounts. The fact that the debtor had funds in other accounts during that period that could settle all these claims does not mean that he is capable of paying." The proposal explains: "The aim of the proposed amendment is to simplify the assumption, the presumption of inability to pay the debtors under the existing legal provision of Article 4(4) established in favour of the applicant for the purpose of facilitating the existence of that bankruptcy". The existing presumption of inability to pay is unnecessarily complex and incomprehensible and calculation requirements, and ultimately allows debtors to manipulate with multiple accounts and amounts of unpaid liabilities. The question arises whether the cause of the bankruptcy proceedings in certain debtors is caused by the complexity of the legislation that has so far regulated this matter or the causes are quite different, and even this expensive legal therapy in the form of changes and addition of existing provisions will not give the medicine. Is he going to, for example? the proposed amendments and additions to the desired changes in the behaviour of a company that has a blocked gyrocalculation for 8 years, which has a debt to the State of 20 million kuna, which is carried out through a sister company with one employee and to which the gyro budget of the state is duly paid by state incentives and granted to them a loan of 8 million kuna for the promotion of employment. I suppose that loan will be easy to justify because when they employ only one additional employee, they will be able to show an increase in employment of 100%. Surely the proposed amendments and additions to the existing, this company exists, this company works in Istria, I am not speaking in mind, sure that the proposed amendments and additions to the existing legal provisions will not bring any new developments if we continue to act as usual, we can expect the novelty only for a year or two in the form of proposals for new amendments or additions of already amended and updated legal solutions. In addition, in the light of the proposed amendments and the addition of the existing Article 20. The bankruptcy law which changes what has already been amended in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act of 2003 states that the assumed objective of strengthening the liability of bankruptcy managers through public companies has not been achieved but rather the contrary, the solution has caused unsecured difficulties, adding and costs, and it is estimated that the question of the appointment of a bankruptcy manager should be resolved in the way in which it was solved by the earlier bankruptcy law. Therefore, a solution has been proposed in an important return to the legal arrangement before the 2003 Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. What does that mean in practice? As we had a wave of opening and registration of public companies to carry out the bankruptcy and management service under the 2003 Act, we will now have a wave of closures. All this is costing, the judicial administration will have its hands full, and it's a public business with economic damage. The liability of bankruptcy managers cannot be achieved through permanent upgrades and decommissioning of existing legal norms but through the implementation of existing norms. The work of bankruptcy managers is supervised by a bankruptcy judge, a committee of creditors and parliaments of creditors, exists and there has been and there has been a obligation of three months of written reporting on the course of the bankruptcy proceedings, there is and there is the possibility of replacing the bankruptcy manager with responsibility even though it is done in practice and it is quite effective to ensure the liability of the bankruptcy manager, but if these available instruments are not adequately used in practice, then in the last changes and additions of 2003 we decided to strengthen the liability of bankruptcy managers by additional instruments, by introducing public companies, we see today what results. The experiences that I can witness are the following, T-COP Pula 2001 open bankruptcy, the bankruptcy debtor disputed with the state, first the ministry headed by Mr Jure Radic, then the ministry headed by Mr Radimir Cacic, now taken over by Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. It can be proved unequivocally that in this case the state will lose its dispute because decisions by the competent courts are going in this direction, it can be sat since the workers are calmed down, that there is only a obligation to settle the general payment order, can be sat down, can be negotiated, there is a mood and there is a Committee of Believers to conclude this bankruptcy, so this is already 6 years of bankruptcy. I also testify that we have had in the last seven years of bankruptcy managers, first from the list of bankruptcy managers without exams, then from the list of bankruptcy managers with the exam, so we had bankruptcy managers of other professions and lawyers without exams, but in a public trading company. We now have the same, and now the list of bankruptcy managers is being re-proposed, and now the lawyer who's been doing it in a public company can't be without a state exam, so we have in seven years seven changes. Furthermore, I think of the lack of instruments to prevent bankruptcy proceedings in the function of the general good, the preservation of production and jobs. I'm not talking about pre-war proceedings. A pre-departure procedure as defined in the spirit of this Act to determine the circumstances for the opening or non-opening of bankruptcy proceedings. I am talking about an instrument that our bankruptcy legislation does not know, and let's say in our neighbouring Slovenia it has proved quite effective. It is an instrument of pre-fashion or coercion, and we believe that we have only one small indication of such an instrument, which is through the instrument of accessing debt at the test hearing, which is not enough in terms of preserving jobs and preserving assets and the business capacity of the creditor. Finally, in front of the Croatian pensioners' party, we appeal that as responsible people... by normative experimentation to make this law quality and permanent in two readings, to insist on law enforcement and not to change all laws in accordance with political winds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to remind you, I repeat the part of what Mr Kovacevic said, the aim is to settle the credentials, the goal is to stop the agony of the bankruptcy debtor because human relations are disrupted when we have abnormal business, the goal is to stop doing business in accordance with the positive legal rules, the goal is to precisely and quickly cut the tissue that is sick and prevent the entire organism from getting sick, or to preserve what has the chance of surviving on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56827	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party's club views changes and additions to the bankruptcy law as another attempt to search for solutions that will improve the general system of bankruptcy protection by functionalising, speeding up and expropriating the bankruptcy process. The first bankruptcy law dates back to 1996 and then three times changed and these are the fourth amendments and additions. All attempts were motivated by good intentions and despite these good intentions, bankruptcy procedures in the Republic of Croatia take too long, in which workers remain jobless. Believers, with their claims, tend to remain unplanned. In these and such bankruptcy proceedings where all losers are still some individuals are rich at the expense of poverty, most of them are in their best interests to keep these actions going as long as possible because they are their golden coke. In practice, the bankruptcy process proved to be one of the most complex procedures and the legal provisions created ambiguities and misunderstandings which resulted in a number of problems. If we remember that our bankruptcy law is based on the example of German law, we have to ask ourselves why this law in Germany is enforceable and problems arise in Croatia. Whether vague law or ambiguity and inconceivables are fabricated by those who are obliged to enforce the law but who are in the interest of the proceedings taking as long as possible. The procedure must be functional and rapid and with as little adverse consequences as possible. And now we come to the question of what is actually the purpose of the bankruptcy process. The procedure is carried out for the joint settlement of the creditor's creditor, the liquidation of his assets and the division of the funds collected to the creditors, according to the law. However, this must not be the sole objective of the bankruptcy process but our law also says that this is not the only objective. In most countries, this goal is achieved and workers often knew neither about it nor about the change of owners. Unfortunately, during the last 15 years in Croatia, after bankruptcy, they remained devastated and in weeds raised facilities and former workers at the Employment Office. That bankruptcy bill wasn't programmed. The law states in paragraph 2 of Article 2 that during bankruptcy, a reshuffle may be carried out which term has been changed or is now changed but the content remains. The reshuffle can be carried out to regulate the legal position of the debtor and his relationship with the creditors, and in particular to maintain its activity. Although the law says it does not happen in Croatia. Thus, the legislator’s intention was not to destroy everything and then to partially settle the religious claims. The purpose of the bankruptcy is to settle the creditors but it is possible to settle without a vandalism on the property of the creditor. Unfortunately, it was very rare and it was too easy to conclude that it was not possible. The reasons why bankruptcy can be opened is over-indebtedness and incompetence to pay. It is incapacitated to pay a debtor who cannot meet his dues on a more permanent basis. The debtor is over-indebted if his assets do not cover existing liabilities. The theoretically speaking, there are no ambiguities here, but in practice there have been complications, and in practice, our bankruptcy procedures are being opened too late. In practice, the rule is that the proposal for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure appears too late and when it appears rarely for months and not to say for years assess whether there are reasons for bankruptcy. In the meantime, the creditor is falling ever deeper and the likelihood of a reshuffle is diminishing, as well as the full settlement of the creditors. As a rule, the bankruptcy procedure is too late to open in spite of the law of the prescribed obligation of the members of the administration to initiate bankruptcy proceedings within three weeks of the inability to pay. Nor will the intervention proposed by this proposal, which is ahead of us, achieve the timely launch and opening of the bankruptcy process. In practice, it is very easy to find reasons to assess the absence of a reason for opening a bankruptcy procedure, especially when it comes to insolvency. The tycoon privatisation indifference brought down the Croatian economy again is a serious problem. Unfortunately, it has its reasons and reasons in state policy because the state is the biggest debtor. While insolvency is thus becoming more frequent and consistent application of this law as well as the Commercial Society Act is initiating a new wave of bankruptcy proceedings. Of course we don't advocate avoiding law enforcement. We are in favour of financial discipline in which the state must be an example. Article 6 amends all legal medicinal products which may be declared during bankruptcy proceedings. This change is a function of transparency and we have nothing against it. The speed-up of the procedure contributes to the introduction of a 60-day deadline in which the second-degree court is obliged to decide on an appeal against the decision to open the bankruptcy proceedings. Describing the provisions, the applicant says that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia ensures the uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens or controls the proper application of the law. Therefore, an audit is permitted, and in those cases where a second-degree court considers that this is necessary to ensure uniform application of the law. In this way, neither the uniform application of the law nor the equalisation of citizens is protected nor the correct application of the law is controlled, since the revision could be declared necessary for the second-degree court to determine in its ruling that the audit is permitted against it. In practice, judges very rarely allow a revision against their own decisions despite the need to ensure uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. The audit should therefore be allowed independently of the will of the second-degree court. In addition, the amendments extend the circle of persons who may be bankruptcy managers, so that a natural person with high professional equipment can be appointed as a bankruptcy manager, who has the necessary expertise, business experience and has passed a professional examination for the bankruptcy manager and is on the list of bankruptcy managers. Theoretically, it could be assessed as good if practice didn't turn it into a freak of its own. For the devastating results of bankruptcy proceedings, responsibility shall be borne by the greatest work of the administrators. Almost regularly, the losers are workers and creditors and the winners were managers and a narrow circle of those whom they chose. The bankruptcy of several bankruptcy debtors was a plentiful source of income and sought to lead the proceedings as long as possible. These changes do not prevent this practice but they open the space for its continuation. The lists of bankruptcy managers will no longer be determined by the President of the High Court of Commerce, but will be done by the Minister of Justice under these amendments, with the time to which the lists are determined not limited. The minister, however, is obliged to request the opinion of competent trade courts and competent chambers, but the opinion is not binding, which means that managers will be political electors, so bankruptcy proceedings will be conducted by policy. We sincerely hoped that those times were behind us so that we couldn't accept them back. The bankruptcy must lead to discipline and ability, not politics. So when the theory flows and the practice becomes the impression that the only objective of these changes is to protect the interests of candidates for bankruptcy managers. It is important to bear in mind that managers have very high intentions that burden the costs of bankruptcy procedures that are always fully settled unlike, unlike the demand for bankruptcy creditors. That these amendments are targeted to protect the bankruptcy managers also prove Article 17, which repeals the obligation of the administrator to provide evidence when taking office that they have been secured by the insurance company from liability for the damage they can inflict. In theory, he is obliged to compensate all the participants if he has wronged one of his duties. As a guarantee of compliance with this obligation, liability insurance is required. This change guarantee shall be relativised. A further proof of suitability to the bankruptcy managers is Article 18, which prescribes payment of the award by the basis of the Regulation on the criteria and method of accounting and payment to managers. So far, the award decision has been made by a bankruptcy judge, taking into account the size of the business, the work of the bankruptcy manager and the value of the bankruptcy. The proposed amendment allows for the unimpeded wealth of bankruptcy managers who have no interest in saving companies from bankruptcy but who are interested in cashing in their assets and making property for themselves a real asset. It is very interesting that despite the knowledge that, in practice, individual individuals are bankrupt managers in a few dozen bankruptcys do not limit that possibility to two or three cases. We think the law should limit it. Furthermore, it is good that changes better protect workers' claims but it is not good that workers themselves will report their claims in the future. We suggest that this section remains with the solution so far, i.e. It shall be the obligation of the bank manager. The amendments to laws that are often difficult to follow by skilled lawyers and are unrealisticly expected to be followed by ordinary citizens. And in practice, it has already entered and accepted that bankruptcy managers report demand from workers. Since this is the first reading of the amendments and additions of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives will support the proposal in its first reading in the belief that by the second reading, the Proposer will accept what we have set as an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56829	Thank you very much. At 18 and 29, it was time to sign up for 1 minute. We have one correction, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56830	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so I just have to correct a truly incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague that she even repeated it on two or three occasions. I quote: "The only interest in amending the laws is the protection of bankruptcy managers, their guessing and their unwarranted wealth". On the contrary. The core of these changes is that the position of bankruptcy managers that has been and who, in a certain sense, we can characterise changes as well. The point of the amendments or these proposed amendments is to speed up the bankruptcy process, reduce the deadlines and position the bankruptcy managers right where they belong under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56831	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Or we still have Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. He's gone. He's losing the right club. And we're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Nenad Stazic, he's not here either. He's losing his right. Mr. Joseph Leco, he's gone. So does he. Then Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56832	Dear Mr. Vice President, here I am also going to repeat about these amendments and the additions to the bill, the bankruptcy law that really is the basic principle and the objective of the bankruptcy process, but also the answer to the question why is the bankruptcy procedure even being initiated and implemented exactly the simplest way to sum up the answer to that question? So for the sake of the common stillness of the debtor's trustee. It's so defined in the law. In both this and the past, and this is the basic principle and the basic postulate of the very launch and conduct of the bankruptcy process itself in a way, in a way that cashes in the assets of the creditor and distributes the funds to the creditor. But of course there is an item 2 in this article, therefore, redesign and protection of jobs, protection of jobs in the first place as a protection of production. Therefore, the strengthening of that creditor absolutely in terms of the opening of a bankruptcy procedure but in any particular situation or from the situation to the situation of the company to the company, of course, should be taken into account because, with the social component, therefore, the protection of jobs is absolutely one, it may become in a particular situation one of the assumptions for the successful conduct of the bankruptcy procedure, but again I repeat in my final statement that all those financial deliries expressed in relation to the debt to the creditors in one timely or appropriate time frames are absolutely and reconciled. So that's the definition and indeed it's on, just at first sight is simple and the reason we started the bankruptcy procedure unquestionably, and the conduct of the bankruptcy process hides a number of difficulties and obstacles, and many of them have had opportunities to hear in the debates that were on behalf of the clubs. I have systematized them in several points, and I am stressing primarily issues and procedural and legal nature and matters of material and legal nature, of course economic issues, social issues, but also issues of financial and professional nature, and indeed when we look at the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings in relation to these elements, we are facing a difficult task. Therefore, amendments to the bankruptcy law really need to or should be approached in a highly professional and serious way. It is primarily to offer such legal solutions that will eliminate the anomalies, irregularities, long-term and expensive bankruptcy procedures that have resulted in the depletion of economic operators, the numbing of jobs, and on the other hand, the unequal position of the credentials and the inability to settle them, i.e. the settlement of their religious claims from the established or established bankruptcy mass. In this sense, I support all those legal solutions, and they are actually the basis or core of these amendments that aim first, to define the legal assumptions for the possibility of starting a bankruptcy process. Second, the affirmation of the principle of protection of the credentials. Third, the development of the principle of banning the abuse of procedural powers. Both fourth and not least, this is the principle of urgency and the economy of bankruptcy. Absolutely all those solutions in terms of these changes and the additions that are going in that direction should be supported. Finally, it is absolutely necessary to advocate a quick, efficient bankruptcy procedure without unnecessary ambiguity, delays that are very long-term and unnecessaryly expensive. Therefore, in the first instance, it is necessary to support a provision defining insolvency for payment, insolvency arising from the law if the debtor has registered outstanding obligations with any legal person carrying out payment transactions for him for a period of more than 60 days and which obligations should be charged on the basis of valid payment grounds without further consent by the debtor from any of his accounts. Second, the insolvency period, so that 60-day period should be supported as a new solution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The company law which has already been mentioned, which prescribes the obligation of the members of the company’s management to initiate bankruptcy proceedings even within 3 weeks, so on a shorter date than the date of the failure to pay. Therefore, the obligation stemming from the Company Act. Furthermore, the principle of banning the abuse of procedural powers. Perhaps it is best to consider it through the possibility of repealing, or abolishing, the decisions of the congregation of believers. It was necessary to specify the deadlines for the submission of requests for the abolition of the decision of the congregation of the creditors to proceed uninterruptedly. It is justified that such a proposal can be highlighted, but only until the hearing is concluded at which the assembly takes place. A new obligation of a bankruptcy judge should also be observed here, as only 8 days from the day of the religious assembly can be delayed in more complex cases. So it's an absolute reduction of deadlines in terms of the metrics, which is certainly an improvement in exactly what we're talking about. Therefore, the reduction of time limits for the measurement of the decision in terms of the conduct of the bankruptcy procedure. In addition, here one should highlight a solution under which the previous procedure may last for a maximum period of 3 months from the submission of the decision to initiate the bankruptcy procedure, unless the specific circumstances require a longer period of time. So again we come to the situation of the proposed changes where the deadline is specified. A deadline as one that is not just an instructive nature, so that in terms of the provisions of the law should be absolutely respected. Therefore, in order to speed up the bankruptcy process, it was necessary to limit the duration of the previous procedure. Judicial experts, temporary bankruptcy managers will have to comply with the deadlines indicated, of course under sanctions which are also directly, which indirectly spring from this law. Furthermore, the basic principle of urgency in the conduct of the bankruptcy procedure should also be seen through the first, suspension of the appeal, i.e. the non-resistance of the appeal as a regular legal remedy when it comes to solutions and the conclusions governing the procedure. And secondly, that determines the 60-day period as the time limit to be decided on on the occasion of a complaint by the Council of Second Instance. Here it is primarily thought of a solution to opening a bankruptcy procedure where what is said to be a leak of deadlines or unnecessary delay in these bankruptcy proceedings. Well, I would also agree for those reasons in specific situations, let's say the unholy motives that can be managed by those who conduct bankruptcy proceedings so that it lasts as long as possible for only them to know the reasons. And of course there's a material or economic component. As far as the procedural provisions themselves are concerned, the same should be said in my opinion in a few sentences because amendments are proposed here. Therefore, the bankruptcy procedure is defined as a special out-of-party procedure with the subsidiary application of the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure, which means that the bankruptcy procedure applies only the basic provisions of the institutes of a litigation procedure which are otherwise applied in a non-partisan procedure and are not contrary to the specificities of the bankruptcy procedure. This is addressed to those discussions which were set out in the light of the conduct of the case, the application of the Law on the litigation of proceedings in relation to the conduct of the bankruptcy procedure itself. Finally, it should be pointed out that the proposal to amend the existing Article 71 and now enter into the claims of the first higher payment order the first claims of workers and former shareholders of the creditor, incurred until the date of opening of the bankruptcy procedure, as well as the damage suffered by injury to the work or occupational disease. And third, demand with the basis of salary contributions and pay under the provisions of a special law. I stress this newspaper here just because I had a chance to hear in this assembly, discussions on the other side of the assembly, in terms of social insensibility, the most different analysis, which is why workers in this order, not in the higher pay order or the highest payout order. So I didn't notice anyone saying that clearly and precisely when it came to the essence of the amendments to this law. Well, gentlemen, the workers have entered the first payment order and it is my personal opinion that it is okay and that it is a valid legal solution. Here it is, since I am running out of time I will conclude with this, of course, with the assessment that this law in first reading with all the opportunities we had to hear absolutely should be supported. And I think that there has been a quality and expert debate on the Justice Committee, and there are also concrete amendments in this regard. But about that second chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56833	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56834	Well, buddy, here's the story again, so you're stressing that the purpose of the bankruptcy procedure is to settle the credentials. Yes, that is what the law says, and in paragraph 2 the law leaves the possibility and the reshuffle. We believe that the goal, the primary goal, should not only be to keep the faiths calm but also to preserve our activities and preserve our jobs. We need to ask ourselves why we regularly have the suspension, that is, the disappearance of jobs, the sale of property to pieces, so that I don't say grams, and the same law that was our law as a model is working and applied in a way that the worker doesn't know that a bankruptcy procedure has been conducted, and because of the fact that we're running a bankruptcy procedure too late. Too late, when it was too long-term, when there was nothing left and in my debate I wanted to point out exactly that need to approach the bankruptcy process as soon as possible, aware of why it could not be. We have a fantastic solution to the Company Act for three weeks if someone is inequitable, the criminal liability administration is obliged to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, but this is not usually happening. And if it did, what would that mean? My colleagues would have 80% of the companies under bankruptcy. Why? Because we do not have financial disciplines in Croatia, because the government in Croatia is indivisible and probably even a proposer when it does not enter into this sphere is aware of it until it is done by the rule of law until the financial discipline of this article before the Law on Commercial Society can be applied in a way that is effective in the function of protecting and achieving the objective of why it has been introduced. That was the point of the debate for me, and that's why it's not a good thing to act with the aim of calming the faithful, not only that, but to keep them calm, but to preserve the place of the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56835	Thank you. Answer Mr. Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56836	Dear Madam Ms. Lalic, the objectives of the bankruptcy process are neither the basic principles of bankruptcy nor yours nor yours. They originate from the provisions of the laws and these proposed and those which have respected, they come out of court practice and not only Croatian practices in terms of the implementation of bankruptcy laws, and they come from the legal profession, so people who deal with civil law or in particular bankruptcy law in terms of the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. So I did not give any of my principles, my goals, but exactly what the legislator as such prescribed what he prescribed and what the profession supports. I said in my debate that if you listened well to me, that I support this social component in terms of reconstruction and the possibility of reshuffled into a bankruptcy process, because without production, or jobs, an absolute company that has come into financial dues as such or that a company can't be removed from it unless it sells its assets it owns, but that is the component that needs to be taken into account in terms of carrying out the bankruptcy process, but the objective is defined by the creditors, because this is the company that came into such a position in terms of debt-religious relations because there are no, that the believer has no, there's no reason to launch a bankruptcy procedure, and we're not going to be afraid, nor are we in order to agree on that. So it should be kept in front of it when discussing this regulation in the first order of the objectives, principles and basic settings of the law itself. In any particular situation, of course, if possible, to preserve a subsidiary of the company itself, the company means, in the first place, to preserve therefore both jobs and employment, therefore also to protect workers' rights with the basis of employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56837	Thank you very much. And as the last one tonight in an individual debate, Mr. Representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since 96, when the bankruptcy law was passed, three of its novels, which occurred in 99, 2000 and 2003, mainly moved around the tools and ways in which to improve on one side the bankruptcy procedure in terms of speed, efficiency and achievement of the objective, and on the other side they talked about the various tools available to the bankruptcy manager, but also talked about the legal position of the bankruptcy managers who frequently changed their legal position and recruited themselves from one part or another. In fact, it is unquestionably true that the legal assumption that the basic task in the bankruptcy process is to settle a creditor’s bankruptcy. But, of course, that social logic and logic are trying to make something that has fallen economically, trying to put it on its feet, it's saying that it's a question of reshuffle in a bankruptcy that once existed on such foundations, something that should be taken into account, and what should be further invested in and within the tools, but also in the framework of implementing policies that could happen. What do I think is the most important and perhaps the most important thing to come to a timely reconstruction? It's primarily an assessment or identification of the problem on time. How to identify the problem in time and who is more responsible in identifying the problem of the debtor or the religious party. It is often forgotten so all the weight shifts naturally to the debtor and he normally, by logic of things, is the debtor and his legal position cannot change either my word that will commend him or that will defile him. However, in our legal system or in our experience system, a religious position is very important. In fact, the creditors are at least on our Croatian occasions, and in most cases the banks, intermediaries, are completely uninterested in this timely identification of the problem. Namely they have their distinct right, they have their own insurance, they have fiduciaries, and they have a whole series of instruments and practically nothing forces them in that sense legally that they identify the problem. They've secured themselves with instruments and they're waiting. Because their waiting is safe. They just can't lose. Now if I can't lose, and there are certain exact structures, if you're looking at bankruptcy structures and the way bankruptcy is created, when bankruptcy was identified, when bankruptcy was declared, in which structure it was happening. Then you'll see that there are certain rules in that movement. These rules actually go to you as a moving ranking list, like a degree in value, the market value of real estate, so there were certain identifications of bankruptcy procedures. Of course, it is understandable and it is difficult to object in this respect. But why, I don't know how, I don't have such a legal opportunity to now say that precisely those creditors who are often viewed in the dynamics of which they became believers, these creditors were created even before the creation of an independent Croatian state, so through the famous mechanisms of self-government agreements, they formed certain stakes in the banks that they founded, which later became their believers. And who practically took over their entire assets afterwards. Such cases are particularly indicated in Dalmatia. So there was a seemingly paradox. After a certain time, the founder was a debtor who was founded by the believer, who had previously become his owner or owner of his property. In what way and whether time simply chewed up these problems, I don't know, but I know for sure that such examples were appropriate and that they were actually dominant in these bankruptcy proceedings. The other side, how to protect workers' rights, labour auctions, job claims, their past work, how to bring this most important social matter into one legal order. There was a whole series of novels that were going to be put into the first payoff order, and now it seems to me that the novelty goes in the sense that the worker himself reports his auctions in the bankruptcy process. I'm not sure that's a good idea. Which is why you wouldn't be doing it just like you've done it so far. Are we sure that the worker, I don't want to do neither the structure nor the qualification of the workers now. Be able, will you know I recognize the problem in time and ask myself to exercise my rights in bankruptcy proceedings, and you know when you are in bankruptcy proceedings, when simply all the elements of normal life have stopped working. When simply, who stayed at the firm in bankruptcy? Well, the one who couldn't go anywhere anymore. He has no way out, he's only here because he can't be anywhere else. The only reason he's here is because he can't be anywhere else. Now, that's how we expect him to report himself and demand his bankruptcy rights. I'm not so sure it's some kind of mechanism, that it's a good tool that's going to improve that spin. I absolutely think it is necessary to strengthen the institutions of reconstruction, meaning timely detection of the problem, that institutions in which work processes are to be strengthened with the help of whom, with the help of whom, the state, local self-government, try to continue and not to, simply not to stop that wheel reproduced because its standing conditions and possible poor wages become no pay. Another problem I see in bankruptcy managers or in the system of this whole relationship. So far, we've known how bankrupt managers, on the basis of which the list is elected, who chooses them. It is now proposed to build a ministry that does not mean anything by itself. Or that this is what was good because it's just some manifestations that aren't the measure of things. However, the measure of things is in the nature of the expertise and fair relationship of bankruptcy managers. I think that they are primarily highlighted and their timely and positive judgment in many cases leads the bankruptcy process in a good direction, or different in a bad direction. Clearly, the mechanisms for sanctions are almost unknown and the final manifestations and the bad and the good are always reduced to rewarding both. Therefore, it will be very difficult to find a quality solution within these novels. I think it is true, at least with this humble information and knowledge that I have about this matter, it is still necessary to approach the making of a whole bankruptcy law. The bankruptcy law which, in the changed circumstances that have definitely changed, nevertheless is the main thing of this, these companies that are in bankruptcy at this point are much smaller and much less pressure than they were. And the circumstances have changed somewhat in the game market. And I think it would be worth thinking about restoring the institution as a fundamental institution that must have so-called. The lever of the first order in action precisely for the reasons of the new circumstances that have arisen, which should go into the function of protecting jobs, protecting workers' rights and all of that, but for that, I am obviously running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56839	Thank you very much. We will now interrupt the debate on this agenda item which will continue after the address of the Croatian Parliament, tomorrow morning, European Commission President Jose Maria Manuele Barroso, and will, therefore, continue after the address of the President of the European Commission. Otherwise tomorrow the MPs should be at the assembly at 10:00. Once that's over, we'll continue the debate on this point. The first is Damir Sesvečan, then Zvonimir Sabati, then Pero Kovacevic and so on. ... So, I'm asking you to take out the benches, put the papers away, and we'll be around 10:00 tomorrow because the gentleman comes in here at 10 and 15. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much and good night. ... Gentlemen, we continue with the session and agenda, the draft law on amendments and amendments to the bankruptcy law. [[Home is not saved.]] It's MP Damir Sesvečan's turn. Here you go. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, let's see what Mr. Lonchart wants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56841	Mr. Vice President, I am a little shaken up, but I hope to maintain my complicity in accordance with Article 17, which says, "The President or the President of the Parliament and the President of the Working Body is obliged to give the agent information and explanations." I wish he were the President of the Croatian Parliament, but you're the vice president, too. I'd like to ask you for a notice and an explanation of who staged this demonstration this morning with primitives, insults and humiliations of MPs in the worst possible way. Let me explain. We've been, I'm sorry, I'm shaking, in this notice from the Parliament, it doesn't say anything that a representative shouldn't be coming with a car today. I came in with the car on time, the guard tells me, I beg them and I give them the keys to drive the car, they say I can't, but I can't go to Tuškanac and there's a car down there and it's gonna move us here. I came down from the car, nothing. I'm waiting, and in the meantime there's a colleague named Jozo Topic, and we're waiting, there's no one here. We call the Secretary of Parliament and tell her what's going on, she says she'll check it out, very kindly. And after that, he says that Campic won't talk to her, that he hung up on her. We were still waiting so hurt and humiliated, we went on foot and peaked and the demonstration of primitiveism was when we were at the height of the government, so 50 or 100 meters away from here, we see a car heading down and as it goes down it says "you want in"? He says, "will you come inside?" Therefore, I ask you nicely for the dignity of both the representatives and this High House to examine who is responsible for this outrageous demonstration of primitiveisms, insults and humiliation of MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56842	Thank you. We'll question and we'll give an answer. Now, if you'll excuse Mr. Sesvechana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56843	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the first reading of the Proposal of the Fourth Novel of the Accountancy Act, which tries to remove the observed shortcomings that have been shown in practice, in its application, and which have led to serious difficulties. This primarily refers to the latest amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law of 18 July 2003 which, instead of leading to acceleration, simplification and cost-effectiveness of the bankruptcy proceedings, produced exactly the opposite effect. So it was necessary to approach these amendments to the law. A large number of changes are actually going back to solutions before that last novel. I'm going to look at a few questions that want to be resolved by these changes and supplements. This refers first of all to the acquisition of the property of a bankruptcy manager, i.e. who may be appointed as a bankruptcy manager. According to the applicable law, this may be a lawyer, a lawyer’s office which has a financial and economic adviser or a member of a public company registered in a court register for the exercise of the activity of a bankruptcy management service which has a high professional standing and passed an examination for the bankruptcy administrator. Under these provisions, it turns out that without further ado, a lawyer could have been a bankruptcy manager while the lawyer's office could only have been so if he had a financial and economic adviser. There was also a conflict of provisions under which the bankruptcy manager could only be a natural person, so a lawyer's office or a joint lawyer's office, because it could have been a law firm that had legal personality status. These amendments and additions propose a solution as to how the 2003 novel was carried out, i.e. that a person with a high level of professional equipment can be appointed as a bankruptcy manager and who has a special expertise and business experience and is on the list of bankruptcy managers. In addition, these amendments and additions correct one bad solution to the applicable Law by which the creditor appointed at the first or later hearing of the creditors instead of the creditor appointed by the creditor should not be on the list of creditors. The proposed amendment of the Law would allow a bankruptcy judge to deny the certificate to the newly appointed bankruptcy administrator if it does not meet the conditions set out in Article 20. The law, or if it is not on the list of bankruptcy managers. This facilitates the supervision of a bankruptcy judge because persons on the list must have certain qualities and references that have been verified in the process of placing on the list of bankruptcy managers. As for the list of bankruptcy managers, it would be determined by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary, rather than by the president of the High Court of Commerce. The list would be complemented, but the list could also be deleted by bankruptcy managers, by a decision by the Minister of Justice on official duty for reasons which are an obstacle to the duties of the bankruptcy manager. The proposed way in which the list of bankruptcy managers of the list becomes an administrative act and is provided through a system of legal remedies for administrative proceedings, protection of the rights of candidates. When we talk about workers as creditors of a creditor, it should be said that the current Law in relation to solutions before the 2003 novel made workers' position worse. Prior to this novel, part of the search, workers achieved as creditors of the bankruptcy process, which was the costs of the bankruptcy process, and these were the claims set out in Article 86. The labour law abolished by the above-mentioned novel. And the rest, as creditors of the first payment order, is the search of the creditors of the higher payouts. So, before all the other bankruptcy creditors. The existing Law on the demand of workers, which they carry out as the cost of a bankruptcy procedure, sets out the first higher payment order of requests by creditors of senior payment orders, which are salaries for the last 3 months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy, remuneration for vacations, severance fees, damages due to injuries at work. Other claims on the basis of the working relationship resulting from the opening of bankruptcy belong to another general payment order, together with claims from all other bankruptcy creditors. These amendments and additions propose the classification of total labour claims in one payment order, i.e. the total demand of workers and former insolvency workers, and shall be classified as first payment order and all other claims in the second general payment order. This ensures the equal position of all acquired believers. It is precisely related to the equalisation of the position of the creditors of the proposal to delete in Article 87(2) of the right to a priority payment from the acquired mass of the lawyer's claim for the services provided during the last 6 months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings in connection with the protection and exercise of the rights of debtors entering the bankruptcy mass that I consider to be a correct solution. By way of derogation from Articles 193a and 193b, An additional institute, the Institute of Transfers of Unsuspected Parts of the Banking Mass introduced by the 2003 veil, which sought to shorten the bankruptcy process but failed to achieve that objective. On the contrary, he has caused many ambiguities and doubts. The same situation is also the case with the introduction of an institution for the sale of debt assets as a whole which was practically impossible to implement. It's actually about buying a company by taking over employees, which is regulated by other provisions of the law. In connection with this introduction of FINA as privileged sales agencies in the sale of debtor assets as a whole, it was unnecessary and very doubtful and the proposer himself said in a constitutional question. Therefore, for these reasons mentioned in this explanation of the proposal, so what the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes I will support the reference of the law to a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56844	Thank you very much. There's a replica, Mr. Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56845	Thank you very much. A respected colleague said there was a novel that came in 2003, that the novel made relations worse in the bankruptcy process, that there was a longer process, that there were smaller protections of workers' rights, and that the novels that followed in 2003 caused negative tendencies. And so it would have been clear and it would have produced that by 2003 everything was great and it was all very expensive, unfortunately reports that were just during the debate in 2003, and I remember them statistics saying something quite different, just that there was a huge delay in the achievement of workers' rights, that the length of bankruptcy proceedings was extremely unfavourable for workers, and therefore I'm afraid that neither the novels in 2003 nor this novel that we're bringing here now will solve what we're witnessing here today, which is that workers will be able to have what they want. First of all, they are not, nobody is satisfied with the position of bankruptcy and bankruptcy is not a good condition, and especially if it takes long and if the results of this bankruptcy are unacceptable for workers, and they almost always are. In order to be acceptable, then there should be an institute called the so-called Institute. The original reconstruction, however, cannot be replaced by a bankruptcy plan because the institute simply does not exist. Thus, the basic task and what workers today require is either to be a reconstruction or to be a short bankruptcy so that there is no death of jobs, which is actually the ultimate goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56846	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Sesvetchan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56847	So, I didn't say that the intention of the 2003 novel was not good, so I also believe that all these shortcomings that have been manifested in the implementation of bankruptcy proceedings were to be eliminated. But first of all, when it comes to working claims, I think the expert public has agreed to this, and I am in the preparation of this debate and consulted this booklet on the third booklet of the bankruptcy law, in which, by virtue of this authority, the prominent experts analyse this third novel, among other things, Prof. Mihajlo Dika says it is difficult to take away the impression that this is another evidence of the 2003 anti-worker’s direction of the novel and related to the erasure of Article 163m. which was otherwise regulated by the rights of employees in the case of the sale of assets of debtors as a whole. So I think the professional public then rated that novel as, so it went to the expense of the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56848	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zvonimir Sabati's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56849	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's today we have a bill on amendments and amendments to the bankruptcy law, but generally if we're talking about the bankruptcy law then we're not going to go to him... So we have a company with a highly treatable disease, and we certainly don't solve the causes of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is expected of this Law to be quite fast, efficient and just, above all, that if it is possible to save property production jobs and give a natural chance for a new start. We can talk about reshuffle, but it's not too much. When it comes to the initiation of the procedure, when it comes to speed, it is certain that the most difficult thing for workers is to launch bankruptcy because in most cases they created the company, they provided their families with their own existence, and often there are objections to why workers through the union or something like that do not initiate bankruptcy proceedings. It's not easy to initiate bankruptcy proceedings for those who created the company. It is also expected by this Law to protect the credentials. I have to say, even though believers often have the ability to spot difficulties in time, they can do so and prevent the worst. In this way they are certainly carrying part of the liability for bankruptcy unless it is objective in nature that cannot be affected. The proposed amendments and additions to this bankruptcy law are huge. I think it was better to propose a new bankruptcy law. And one comment, namely, I have an objection to article 75 of the Bill amending Article 173. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: I do not see the need to amend the provisions of paragraph 2 in the existing law because in the present application of that provision, there has been no problem but has contributed to the acceleration of the procedure to that extent. All data which should now be delivered by workers shall be made available to the bankruptcy manager. It should be noted that, even if a worker does not have an employment contract, the employer has not even delivered it to him on signature and would not be able to fulfil the obligation to comply with the obligation to attach the documents from which the search is based. This particular fact could lead to new litigation. And the solutions by which the list will be published in a visible place in the business space of debtors are totally unacceptable because all workers continue to work. Namely, some have either been fired or retired, thus making it impossible for them to see the correctness of their search lists. It is also not defined which is a visible place in the business space, whether it is a fence, a depositary seat or some other space. It is also seen from a whole series of exposés or from discussions of clubs or individually that often certain outwittings are present that are better. But still, far beyond these discussions is real life, human fate and our debates will not return more than a hundred thousand people who, by bad management and incompetence of the owners, have destroyed most of our economy, or sent these people to the streets. We're not going to settle this with these changes. We are saying that the main thesis or that one of the main thesis is the speed and protection of the credentials, but believe me, a good part of the credentials especially knew individuals, so even now we have these cases better to protect ourselves than they are protected by this law. When we talk about creditors for sure that they are one of the major creditors and banks, however, banks are mostly well provided by real estate fiduciaries today, and today banks are generally not more vulnerable. The owner or owners, as believers, sometimes devised a long-ahead bankruptcy in advance, and thus earning property. The methods are already being stalked. The company's owner is opening a new company that is gradually transferring most of the more valuable properties, and more lucrative businesses are being transferred. A new firm and a planned bankruptcy firm conducts a number of suspicious business and financial transactions at the expense of the planned bankruptcy firm. The old company or let's call it a bankruptcy station two to three times over-indebted, the assets are almost gone, the jobs are getting smaller, the workers are working and they don't get paid. The company goes bankrupt, I'd say I'm free to repeat the planned bankruptcy, the creditors have nothing to settle down. The owner of the company has another bankruptcy company and nothing's happening to him. No one's responsible for the company's collapse. The moment we disabling such a crime, then we can talk as much about a quick, just and just bankruptcy procedure. And I repeat, these changes and additions to the bankruptcy law as well as the general bankruptcy law are not resolved. So we have a whole series of examples. The press is full of almost daily or weekly protests by workers who have lost their jobs. For example, in Varazdin and Međimurje County, 15 years ago there were 518 bankruptcys and 11 thousand 122 workers lost their jobs because of these bankruptcys. Of course, part of these workers either found a job in their own companies or got a job elsewhere, but most of them unfortunately ran out of work. There are all sorts of examples and not so long ago, even in this assembly there were talks about them. We can mention examples of come if we talk about our Varazdin County even though there are all over Croatia such examples and from the example of Varazdinska. Some have said this is a good example but an example of privatisation, but what happened. It happened that the property was missing, the workers stayed on the road, the operation that was very important in Varazdinka and it was referring to farmers it failed etc. We are talking further about one of the most important trading entities in north-west Croatia, we are talking about VAMA which has done excellent business and gone bankrupt. No one is responsible for the downfall of a company for a large number of people left on the road. We're talking about ITAS, and there was talk in this assembly about it. We're talking about a planned bankruptcy right now. Without property, there is a company that has perspective and people can certainly provide their own and their families with existence. Not to mention a whole series of savings-credit cooperatives where people have run out of large amounts of their resources, but I repeat these changes and additions to the bankruptcy law won't solve these problems. That's another way to get rid of it, and I don't know what we're waiting for not to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56850	Thank you. We have three replicas. He's the first man to represent Joseph Lek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you have claimed that this law aims at the efficiency of the collection of creditors. However, the promoter declares two goals, which is the meaning of every bankruptcy law. The protection of property and jobs and the collection of religious claims. These changes are approximately from mandate to mandate or ad hoc, depending on who's in power. That's how the problem can't be solved. And contrary to the objectives set out in the proposal itself, there is a big difference in the proposal itself. In particular, Article 71 of the Law repeals the provisions on the sale of the total assets of the creditor. This is not how jobs are kept, so neither the program nor the production unit is kept. In this way, we question the goal declared by the Government by its proposal, and even more so when it is constantly changing what the objectives of the bankruptcy law are if we know that in Croatia the first goal is to employ 300 thousand workers who have been standing on that figure for a long time, then the goal that the government has declared as the efficiency of the bill does not stand before us either as the main objective but as protection of jobs and production programme or some business programme. So I wanted to warn you that the stated objective is not in line with the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56852	Thank you. Answer Mr. Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56853	Thank you in some way and support my presentation even though if you followed closely I did not say the stated goal but I said I was expected from this law to protect of course jobs etc., but I agree with your follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56854	Thank you. Replica Mr. Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, since we're coming from the same county and my colleague Sabat and I agree. Itas Ivanec is just an example of where the company was robbed from the inside. It took, unfortunately, almost a year for the State's Attorney's Office to file criminal charges for the first 10 million kuna of property stolen from the owner or owner and the company's administration. And closer and further relatives. Now another procedure has been launched for nearly another 20 million kunas of dubiosis stolen. For example, for the purchase of a ship, one of the companies which is of course its owners, which are the owners of Itas, are sold for 100 thousand kuna or million kuna, and is resold further for a million EUR. These are about irregularities that have been identified. However, the fact is that this bill keeps saying that workers will be privileged. Unfortunately, he won't. The workers will continue to be the most unprotected because, nevertheless, I would like to hear Mrs. State Secretary's reply in such a way that the bankruptcy managers do something precisely related to the application of itas to illegally acquired assets in the judiciary system as it is today. Where a temporary measure is required to prohibit the availability and alienation of illegally acquired assets, it is, for example, Itas, that there is no simple asset in the bankruptcy that would protect jobs on the one hand and start further production, and on the other hand, to pay workers what they should get in the first payment order. The property just doesn't exist. Is it possible that the Ministry and these governments could come up with some kind of fund for such workers? That they still get what they need. And on the other hand, to get to the effective judiciary that the owners who knowingly took the company to ruin, robbed no further property and then the matter and story stopped, and 250 families and 250 workers are on the road as very real can happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56856	Thank you. And the replica of Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sabati, you say this bill will not solve the biggest problem, the job problem of the workers. Well, it's not even a job or a job, it's not the original task and the purpose of this bill. But what are you rightly warning if one package, one, is meant to be designed one protection that now the promoter likes to produce with great concern for workers, which is with the abuse of trust with which you claim that no one has answered? And why didn't anyone answer? Well, that's not how our laws are set up. This authority can be commended that during its term of office, a criminal offence of the abuse of trust for which the leadership is appropriate... He's been threatening to punish them for 20 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the last difficult circumstances, perhaps even more difficult. And the second prime minister liked to brag about "Hurry HR," and here's what now, finally, the media and the public are aware of what's going on? "Hurry HR" becomes the service of non-proliferation entrepreneurs and so the Stone Ingrad as he deceived the believers. And who gave him that? She gave him this power because she had abolished, and we, as an opposition, were fiercely opposed to changing the provisions of the Law on the Court Register which would be registered to those companies that remained in debt and to the creditors, to all the creditors, in particular to the state and the workers, to register the company. But we are, but here the ruling have said to God under this great desire and desire for our citizen and our entrepreneurs to open the company as quickly as possible. That was the least of your problems. In a month, whether it's 15 days or a month, it was the least of our problems. And you see what that's all about. And you can put salt on your tail. Because he stayed longer than half a billion kuna in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56858	Thank you. Thank you. Otherwise you overstepped the institute and Replica debate [[Intruder: I didn't.]] You didn't replicate Mr. Sabati but to the government and the prime minister, you instructed some remarks that don't belong to the replica institute in this case. [[Intruder: No.]] It has been repeated several times for President-in-Office. I won't be able to allow you to use such a replica. It is Parliament but there is a Rules of Procedure in Parliament that everyone should respect Oh, please, there's a Rules of Procedure that every MP should respect. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Or we change that Rules of Procedure, and then power will speak whenever it pleases it, whatever it wills it. Let's change the Rules of Procedure and we'll do it that way. Let's not introduce to such a small door something that is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. Please, I let you finish, and next time I won't, I'll interrupt. It's Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56859	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state as well as the club of HSP and I individually have a significant number of objections to the draft law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law. The first comments are fundamental. Further comments are of principle nature and individual examples. In terms of fundamental nature, I must repeat that the obvious difference between the SDP Club and the HDZ Club, which was last night and given to us, cannot be simply the settlement of the creditors. The bankruptcy law must also be in office, it must be a development law, not a law that will be in the function of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, and we know how it has been implemented so that what has been illegally acquired is destroyed until the end. We've had countless examples and it's the first of examples of buying something with nothing, so illegal, and then you go targeted into bankruptcy to get real estate. What was the fate of the workers? They ended up on the road. They didn't get anything, they're 40 to 50 years old. Where are they gonna get a job? So the whole conversion and privatisation was carried out in such a way that we lost 400 thousand jobs, and the bankruptcy law was exactly the function of continuing how and in any way to get to real estate without any purchase, without any investment. It means what he says is guaranteed. The second form that allowed the bankruptcy law, and there they were in the game lobbies, was either banking or providing lobbys with management that had already been bought, which is also a variant, but the variant to destroy, say, a firm that has a good position on the market but has come into certain situations of indifference then management takes high loans but already in agreement with a customer who is known, to satisfy someone's interests and normal bank sends the company, or gives unfavourable loans, into bankruptcy. And what's to be done? Competition is being destroyed, monopoly is being acquired on the market. You have a lot of situations like that. How did the workers of "Slemen" end up? The real estate was the most important thing here. How did the workers of Zagreb end up? The same properties were the most important. Yesterday we heard the case that after 12 years in Istria, people were slowed down, and the company was already, a work dispute, and the company was totally destroyed. Therefore, it was to go to the creation of a new whole bankruptcy law. And this part, meaning the development in bankruptcy certainly further emphasizes, which is that in all these situations, the survival of the company, i.e. the retention of regular places, is possible. Secondly, what is also important to say about the principles of nature, what is sought and in these very situations when the situation is destroyed, it is necessary to predict, open up the possibility of so-called. the previous bankruptcy procedure. Because there are a lot of situations to say companies, companies have a name, they have conditions, they have a market, but they come into a situation of indifference, of responsibilities. And then it's better to open this previous bankruptcy procedure, because in many cases this company has the possibility of survival on the market. But there is a competition that wants to destroy it and conquer the market. A similar example is, for example, the case of TDR workers, although all is well done, but we know how it ended. Now, as far as the principles are concerned, I have to look back on this situation for a maximum reduction in the duration of the bankruptcy procedure, which means 3+3 months. These deadlines set for the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings are unrealistic. Why are they unrealistic? Because in practice, there is hardly any court case that is legally closed within 3 years. and not to mention further needed time to collect their debtors on all legal options in the event of the success of the bankruptcy dispute. In the event that the creditor has the property then it is necessary to carry out an assessment of the property. If it is an immovable one that is not in land books properly recorded then only this procedure today takes two and more years. And not to mention the time when that property was cashed. And if it's 3+3 what's going to happen that property that gets into that part is going to be unrealized? Therefore, you should consider which one will be, but then, if you go to that variant then you should ensure maximum protection that all these disputes that are being conducted in parallel to this bankruptcy process are completed within those deadlines. And we know for ourselves what the situation is about work-law disputes. They last you today on average from 4 to 6 years, and there are cases of 10 and 15 years of age. So what and how do you do it that way? So it's going to come back to the situation that it's going to be the workers who end up on the road. Still, a good goal of law, or one of the principles, is to equalize all believers in the right. And was that done in action? It hasn't been done. It wasn't done. Or we still have a situation so-called. the favored creditors who themselves on their position, with the acquired acquisition of rights,... So it's a priority in settling in debt property items to gain benefits over other creditors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And imagine who they are again? These are again financial institutions, banks and insurance companies. And who are we protecting here again? Whose banks are they? We are again protecting those banks that many Croatian companies have ruined with loans to create a monopoly on the market, i.e. in a specific case. So, they've always worked for someone else's interests, and in all of that, he's been involved in many cases, unfortunately, the management that has accepted such a game. We further believe that it would be important for the conduct of the bankruptcy proceedings to be leveled in the obligations and responsibilities of both the bankruptcy manager and the bankruptcy judge, because they both, the bankruptcy judge, have great powers, especially according to this, but there is no responsibility. And we know that both a bankruptcy judge and a bankruptcy manager work in the interest of a believer. So they must both be responsible for carrying out the whole part. Furthermore, we believe that the credentials who have initiated court proceedings that their possible claims on any basis would be obliged to submit their claims prior to the request for bankruptcy with the indication of the number of files, the court in which the proceedings were brought, and the supporting documents on the basis of which the court dispute was initiated. In this way, with the documentation of the claim, it would be possible to suspend the conduct of the procedure through recognitions, the basis of the claim. It is also important for the part of the work under way to return the deleted provision. And the provision of opening a recognizable jury account of a creditor previously led under code 690 has been deleted, making it very difficult for many to work as a bankruptcy manager, with very frequent blockades of a creditor by various credentials or lawyers that would not, should not be done but is happening. It's all based on actions before the bankruptcy process is opened. The possibility of creating, establishing a chamber of bankruptcy managers that would then be more relevant to determine should also be considered. Not that the ministry is working to determine the bankruptcy managers. And we know ourselves that he was already under the World Bank project to assist trade courts, where one of them was signed, Croatia signed a contract with the World Bank on a $5m loan. Therefore, behind all this is evident that there is a significant number of objections and suggestions on our part. But I'm saying in order to protect the interests of workers, not just favoring the believers and the worst guess that workers end up on roads without any rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56860	Thank you very much. We have a replica, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56861	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to replicate to my colleague Kovacevic that I do not agree with his statement saying: "The bankruptcy, the bankruptcy law serves to end the robbery process after conversion and privatisation.". Neither the bankruptcy proceedings nor the bankruptcy law was written in this way. Because the bankruptcy opens in a company where robberies, kidnappings, unpaid workers have already been committed for 12 months. I'd say, spent, take the funding from the loans they took on any basis and the unpaid are the creditors. In such a procedure, bankruptcy is opened. Such proceedings shall be subject to bankruptcy law. And what's the point of the bankruptcy law? He's been giving the great power of the judiciary to undo its operations in the last 12 years. That's why it's a bankruptcy law. He cancels, initiates criminal and criminal persecution. At the same time, this bankruptcy law also allowed workers to be paid, tried to save the debtor and only then in some way sanctioning and obligation to the creditors or at least insurance payments to creditors who did not participate in negative processes while the company was not in bankruptcy. That was the intention of the law, that's the intention of bankruptcy. The biggest problem is that it didn't come to life, and then we have to talk about justice, not bankruptcy and bankruptcy law. We're talking about who's responsible for not processing and not implementing the bankruptcy law and where the culprits are, and so the question is the judiciary, not bankruptcy and bankruptcy law. And then maybe thinking that the judiciary was involved in ending the robbery process, then it's something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56862	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56863	Well, a fellow respected to me essentially admitted that I was right, that unfortunately, this bankruptcy law was in place because it was never brought to life what was said but what was happening was happening. That is why we, a respected colleague, and have proposed to supplement the law on the revision of conversion and privatisation to sanction all of this, means something that has been illegally acquired can never become legal and go along with that part and to the institution of ownership in order to finally ensure that these workers are protected from further robbery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56864	Thank you. Ms. Representative Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56865	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to replicate to my distinguished colleague Kovacevic in part of his debate when he spoke about how important real estate is. They really are in the good part, but they would actually say how to whom. In particular, as regards the case "Zagrepčanka", the City of Zagreb has used the right to buy first, and thus has partly allowed job retention. And if more countries were to be effective and finally make the entry of real estate into the property of the City of Zagreb, then the possibility of jobs would also be opened in perspective, i.e. that there would be more jobs. There is also the case "Sljemena", the City of Zagreb also bought this company and is currently conducting negotiations on sales and facilities and brands, in the perspective of course it means by the end of the process, that means opening jobs in terms of returning people to those jobs. In any case, my replica is more than actually related to Mr Kovacevic's exposure, although the fact that real estate today is the most important and the one who buys the company first plan and has the value of the property of individual companies in bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56866	Thank you. Answer Mr. Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56867	Well, I deliberately said these two cases and "Zagrebs" and "Slemen" because what I was talking about just happened. In "Sljemen" it happened that the City of Zagreb received real estate and all of this, so we know what the value of these properties is, where they are, and the workers are paid off with what was owed to them and are ultimately unemployed. So it's a classic bankruptcy case. And "Zagregjanka" is the same situation. As the City of Zagreb now signed in, he would sell the same thing further. So we protect the worker, not the interests of the individuals who want to trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56868	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again I will say, if we declare that the main objective of this novel is the efficiency of the collection of claims, then I will not speak for the past, then the banks, as large-capital players, will cause many bankruptcys in the Republic of Croatia, not saving jobs but working for large capital. They're going to repossess our companies, they're going to lead them into banks, and then they're going to buy them in bankruptcy for a little bit of money. That's how it happens, that's how it's gonna happen if this bill goes through, especially if there's no emphasis on keeping the program. Croatia has a repeat, 300 thousand unemployed workers and has a lack of programmes that can even be financed from the European Union. That's the point, this is the economic law, he's not what I'd say, just the execution. He aims to preserve the program, the substance, preserve something that is possible and do not allow great players against our wishes to cause bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56870	Thank you. Answer Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56871	Well, I'm glad my colleague Leco agrees with my part, because that's exactly what I was talking about, but I said that because the position of the SDP club was, last night, it was shown that the aim of this law was to calm the faith. Now, I can never agree with that, and that's why you're right, and I'm glad you have the opposite opinion of your club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56872	Thank you. We have a correction, Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Thrakostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56873	So here's to be of course very interesting not knowing the basic laws of market business, Mr Kovacevic said a series of inaccuracies for which I don't have time to make things right in this minute, but I would say the basic two crucial ones. Therefore, it is an incorrect statement that the entire conversion and privatisation and the bankruptcy laws were aimed at destroying the economy because, of course, the abuses that could be spoken of should have been sanctioned, but we also have great examples of companies that changed the titleholders of ownership and continued to operate quite well, as the macroeconomic indicators of the development of the Croatian economy and the increase in production and everything else they discussed about the state of the economy. I'd just say it's incorrect to say that the aim of competition is to destroy the company, the market prevails. The objective of competitiveness is to control as much of the market as possible, and then those who are unable to cope with this competition themselves disappears from the market, so here in this sense should not only draw the worst examples and consider them to be the exact or criterion of the overall state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56874	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. From the presentation of counterpart Kovacevic, it was understood that "TDR" from Zagreb went bankrupt. That's incorrect. It's true that TDR is moving its production to a new location in Kanfanar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56876	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56877	Thank you, Mr. President. And here I have come forward with my modest contribution to support this law for the reasons that as an economist, I am interested in the progress and prosperity of the economy, and I think that this law is actually a fundamental economic issue and that it should be in function I repeat, the development of the economy. Because we can take bankruptcy either as a business change for the better or as a liquidation. Therefore, we cannot talk about bankruptcy exclusively as about liquidation and the disappearance of businesses. And I think that, therefore, the lawyers in these articles should make it possible for things to happen in the economy the way they should not be able to achieve what is essentially the consequence. Therefore, protection of creditors and this debt-religious relationship is due to poor business. I suppose that business should all have been monitored together and I'm not in favour of introducing an institute of pre-determined proceedings because it's actually the same thing, to say, part of the bankruptcy. But before we have to decide whether bankruptcy or liquidation is necessary, of course, everyone behaves in accordance with good business. And then creditors can often collect their claims in different ways and before formal bankruptcy. However, when we talk about improvement, therefore, I am particularly pleased that Article 20 is changed, which is the new article 9 where, finally, I say, changes and returns to the old things concerning the Institute of the Bank Manager. Because I think that with the establishment of a public company that they had to satisfy the form and the ability to conduct a bankruptcy procedure, certain people were created on a caste basis, whatever they call, a very lucrative interest. Very new, but very, so to speak, a lucrative bank manager. And I can't believe that we're all capable of anything. As there are no universal politicians, I'm not even convinced that there are universal bankruptcy managers, and I suppose each of us is physically limited. So I took a good look at the answer to the parliamentary question sent last month by all trade courts where they counted, so how many current bankruptcy proceedings are being conducted and how many bankruptcy managers are leading it. So you come up with one data that's phenomenal. So that in Croatia this moment is guided around, let it be allowed, so if there is any difference in one or two or three examples less or more, about 90 bankruptcys. In particular, 879 and managed by a very large number of bankruptcy managers, but there are very large differences in the number of bankruptcys that a single bankruptcy manager leads. So you have those who lead one, of course, good part but you have the extremely capable leading 22 at the same time. Follow the one who's leading, I'm talking about people, I'm not going to list names because they're available to you in this report, 17, 12, well 9, and I didn't go beyond data, to 5. So I'm convinced that five bankruptcys in companies that we want to heal are impossible to run parallelly. And I'm not sure it's possible for a bang like that to continue. That is why I insist that in this Law until the second reading, articles that determine the quality of the bankruptcy manager, what he must fulfill. So, to have a professional exam, to be on the list and everything, there's also the number of bankruptcys one can run. Or to prescribe that it is then by means of a rule made by a minister or I do not know who else determines and that a list of bankruptcy managers is made according to areas that certain bankruptcy managers know. Because I repeat, if this is about winding up, then it can be a technical legal issue, and this is how it is, the healing of companies, which is the objective of bankruptcy in the West, and bankruptcy is a very negative connotation for us. But it doesn't have to be. The bankruptcy may, therefore, be an aid to the company to change the management that has led and management to poor business, to change the subject of business or to change some other things that have essentially hindered its normal development. Therefore, I am also on the Committee on Justice, which supported that opinion, which raised the question of the bankruptcy manager. And I join those who wish to be determined in article 39 when it comes to the salaries of workers who need to be calmed down from that mass, so as to determine that this is a gross amount so that there would be no different interpretations and that there would be no possibility of abuse. And what I would like to say in the end right now is that bankruptcy should, therefore, lead as quickly and of course with the control of the credentials. And I am pleased that this article has therefore determined that this congregation of believers can no longer have more than 7 articles, be an operational body that will be able to meet more often and be able to provide concrete information to the bankruptcy council. Here, for the sake of that, I thank you for listening to me and counting on you to put my proposals in the next final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56878	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56879	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, so I'm just going to replicate the presentation of the distinguished colleague. Obviously, if we don't live in the same country, you're talking about economic progress. You had a State Audit report that said 95.17% of the conversion and privatisation was carried out illegally. That 400,000 jobs have been lost and what we're talking about right now. That out of the 95, which means a thousand and five hundred twenty-six were there, that a third went into bankruptcy immediately and that people were out of work just to get real estate. And you're saying that the objective of the bankruptcy law can also be to change the subject of business. What do you mean, "Gavrilovic" will then produce cement if it goes into bankruptcy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56880	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56881	Well, the difference, my colleague, between me and you, is that I came into politics in the '90s from the economy. Before that, I worked in the meat, metal and wood industry, and I know these problems well. And I've known and I've said it many times from this pay phone economy in Yugoslavia to Croatia by 90. And regardless of what it's called, transformation, transformation, change, reconstruction, capitalism, whatever they call it, so change would be painful when it comes to the socialist economy that needs to move into the market economy. So the data then spoke of one-third of the unwarranted employees. So those who were in a working relationship and had nothing to do. I'm not going to tell you about self-management cells, business records because we all worked there. Thus, when you move to the market economy, job losses would occur, i.e. changes in the quality of jobs. And we are from labour intensive activities, of course we should, which are also politically open. You remember the many textile factories and I don't know what they've opened for people to be artificially employed, and they haven't been commercially justified, and today they're in a lot of trouble. So I did not say that there was no abuse in the conversion and privatisation, and I did say that every one of them, but every single one and every one of them, through the prosecution of persons who abused and then the laws, but I'm also talking about those people who made a good transformation of the laws, a good change of title of ownership and socialist into private or public, and today they do a good job and contribute to the development of the Croatian state and ultimately, alimate for our salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56882	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56883	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Associates. It is this bill that is before us to confirm that we are actually a country of very active legislation, that we have decided on a general nomotechnical approach that has been developed in the modern legislation of European countries. In fact, what is needed and valuablely highlighted in these amendments and additions is precisely the precision that certain provisions were intended to be regulated so that the principle of urgency of this bankruptcy procedure would also be respected and it is certainly a valuable contribution because the active legislation says that all those problems in practice need to be tackled very quickly. Of course, even at the beginning of these amendments and additions when the debtor is deemed to be incompetent to pay if he has unsecured obligations either with a legal person and has been listed for a period of more than 60 days. It already decides exactly what time it is, within what time. Of course, what is easier to handle is that the bankruptcy procedure is carried out on the basis of the rules of the litigation procedure in that part and that it is applied in an appropriate manner. It is also said very precisely when and how calls and notifications are sent, how this statement will be considered to be very determined and strong and important. The appeal for 8 days, the second-degree court decides within 60 days, and the revision is foreseen, of course, that it should also be determined within what time limit as precise and firm a decision can be made. I'd also like to point out the bankruptcy manager. Which person this may be, and in what way it may be, to tighten the maximum conditions similar to those applicable to lawyers, similar to those applicable to judges, that they should have certain years of practice, passed a judicial exam and that the expert exam for the bankruptcy manager should be very, very strict. I also welcome even though there has been criticism as to why the list of bankruptcy managers determines and determines the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary precisely so that his responsibility for what is happening in the judiciary is strengthened because it is easier for us as a Croatian Assembly to criticise and influence the Minister of Justice than for some body that we did not directly or indirectly choose. Of course, both the choice and appointment of a bankruptcy manager in which the congregation can choose him, or change that it is very precise and said. Of course, this bill is also a continuity compared to previous laws, so it is just important to stress that continuity so as not to be deemed not to sanction, or create a legislative framework for solving exactly the practical problems that are evident in society. Similarly, the creditor is also responsible for how much he owes to launch a bankruptcy procedure because the bankruptcy of companies does not cease to be worth it. Valuable good staff will always find places, and for those who cannot get a job because they are at a high age have the safety of the Employment Service. The most important part is being reproduced, so there's no fear of saying it now that we've protected the believers, this time we owe them. From this bankruptcy, the bankruptcy process always creates an absolute new value. The bankruptcy manager is obliged to make sure. Of course, this should be done as soon as it enters into office and in terms of responsibility, so that the height of the security is determined by the conclusion of the bankruptcy judge. This creates a system that is secure and similar in order to conduct a bankruptcy procedure at all. It is also important to point out that the believer who proposes to initiate the bankruptcy procedure is obliged to pay the court fee, so that the court fee also strengthens one determination and security that is precisely not from some last intention and initiates bankruptcy proceedings. It is also said in Article 29 that this is an advance, which will need to be paid, but it is also clearly said that the bankruptcy procedure in order to settle the due demand is being initiated by both employees or one time employees should be told to repeat the workers on a continuous basis... Second time employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And previous workers are not obliged to take the amount necessary to cover the costs because we know very well that those who have come into the situation to lead their company into bankruptcy that they are certainly not paid for a few months and there is no place to take often high, for them high costs of the procedure. It is decided that the previous procedure may take the longest 3 months, of course here is one exception, if the special circumstances do not require a longer period and would shorten it let all strive to subside in one system of rock strength because so do the more advanced countries that have a longer state than we and longer have a legal tradition than we do. It is very clear and stated in Article 39, so it is clear in the demand for the first order of payment the entry of workers' and former insolvency workers who were created until the opening of a bankruptcy procedure from a working relationship and the compensation suffered by injury to work or occupational illness, the demand from the basis of salary contributions and wages, it is very important to note this because often employers fail to pay contributions to wages and wages, and when bankruptcy occurs, it remains that these workers did not, or the employer, pay for them any part of the free years. How to ensure that they have a normal and a pension and this proposal is very precise. For the sake of legal certainty there is also a lease and a lease of real estate or premises, it does not stop the opening of a bankruptcy procedure. This applies to leases and leases made by the debtor as either the highest bidder or the borrower. There is a legal certainty that we need very much and that from law to law should be created by any amendment and strengthened. In any event, this Appendix in Article 68 shall be submitted without delay to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that the creditor is obliged to provide information on all assets sold in bankruptcy proceedings and on movements if their estimated value exceeds 50 thousand kuna. It is also useful to supplement a type of property register on the real estate market that is managed by the Chamber of Commerce in this way and to create a solid legal system. It is also very useful to point out that, even in Article 79, a new item if the person referred to in the case again has no short term for eight days to open that case that it is considered to give up the right to conduct a lawsuit, which once again highlights the speed and important principle of bankruptcy, which is the principle of urgency without concern for anyone, or the believer or debtor. The bankruptcy law is a very important law because it speeds up all those and economic reasons for the development of companies from those who could not survive on the market gave them the opportunity to create from such companies companies that the frames are affected by what the market offers. Of course, the current method of determining the value of the dispute was not acceptable, as this established VPS would often be inadmissible. Therefore, there was also a limit on how to determine the very easy value of the case of the dispute and the very good analogy with the Law on Court Taxes. Of course it is useful to support such a law because it gives us, as a legislative body, greater opportunities to influence the development of legal certainty, legal science and practices in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56884	Thank you. Replicated Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56885	Mr. Vice President! Dear colleague, I would not be able to agree with the end that this law is an expression of the Parliament's intense legislative activity in seeking some new solutions. I would prefer to conclude that this law is actually an expression of wandering in economic policy and changing the interests that they want to achieve with that law. The fact is that the current bankruptcy law has tried to protect the first production and service activity in such a way that it has requested that, in the bankruptcy procedure, a whole company or a whole institution be sold, in order to practically open up the maximum space for continuing activity or re-use of activity, so that employees continue to employ and resolve their life issue through work on the one hand. On the other hand, he put workers in the first order of payment, which actually changed them, and put them in a more favourable position as creditors for unpaid wages. I'm talking about the believers. Now you have something else. Now suddenly as one of the key changes is going to sell parts or assets, which practically puts the bankruptcy law into the function of acquiring assets rather than maintaining the production of service activities. And in a situation like this, it's a very serious question where we want to go and what we want to do with this situation. The second question that follows in itself is whether the government at all, although it does not have an economic strategy, so it is difficult to answer that question, knows what it wants in the economic social sphere. And this law. And a fourth that's very important. It cannot be with 115 articles amending and supplementing the law four times to change the bankruptcy law in five and a half, six years, and at the same time we are not aware that we are actually changing the essence of this law. The essence of this law is changed by this amendment and by the addition of the law. I deliberately didn't want to take a ten-minute debate because I'm waiting for a second law reading to amend that law because this is inadmissible what this law is doing. It changes more than the complete matter at the expense of workers on the one hand and the damage to the maintenance of production and service activities... and a believer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A believer doesn't always have to be that way best quality... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56886	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56887	It is precisely this contribution in the proposed law that is beneficial and, above all, it goes to those workers highly professional and those who are not because the bankruptcy process will give them value for a new working progress in other environments and other companies with very precise and clear deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56888	Replica is a respected representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56889	Here, a colleague of Peronja, you argued that by setting deadlines in this bill and by tightening it, when any procedural actions in the process itself can be carried out and the maximum duration of the bankruptcy process alone will finally speed up the bankruptcy process itself. But that's not the case. In most cases, it is not possible to determine the bankruptcy or asset of the debtor. Thus, a whole series of litigation cases arises in bankruptcy, which first establish the assets of the creditor entering the bankruptcy and whether the creditor has property in the first place, because otherwise there is a suspension of the proceedings. Second, the case often stems from bankruptcy cases relating to the determination of the basis of the requests reported. There's almost no bankruptcy in which a lawsuit doesn't appear, and that's where the promoter didn't say anything. Well, I'm surprised. Doesn't the promoter know the basis for the bankruptcy process? That bankruptcy procedures are usually burdened with litigation without talking about litigation. I'm sorry, that means absolutely unknowing things. And if this doesn't work out, so unless the length of the case is limited as far as possible. We also have an amended Law on a litigation procedure that regulates exactly how long a work dispute can last. The second question is how much it is used in practice and for this reason, it would be very interesting to see an analysis. Therefore, the legislative frameworks existed there and exist. Therefore, I see no reason not to limit the length of the case in this sense, even if this makes sense at all, how the motionary speaks and what you draw attention to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56890	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56891	It's right here that the newspaper is the one that speeds up this bankruptcy process. Of course, a colleague well claimed that many proceedings produce litigations and litigations are resolved under the Law on a litigation procedure that has accelerated many actions. Maybe not as fast as we'd like it, but there's time and opportunity to bring the CAP into line because we're really a country with very active legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56892	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56893	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, sir of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The basic meaning of the bankruptcy law is to regulate the conditions for open bankruptcy proceedings, it regulates itself the bankruptcy procedure, the legal consequences of its opening and implementation, the bankruptcy plan, the personal rights of the debtor, and the conditions and effects of the discharge of debtors from the remaining obligations. We, as in the past term as police authorities, have met exactly the problem that has not been resolved to the end and how to react to it. The fact that bankruptcy procedures are undoubtedly not only an analysis of the profession but also not just a belief but an irrefutable fact that bankruptcy procedures are unnecessarily long, that they are being drawn apart, that they become a purpose to themselves and that bankruptcy is often spent largely on covering the costs of the bankruptcy process itself. The last changes in 2003 were just on the trail. How do you get to that? Then what's done? The bankruptcy procedure itself has been simplified. First of all, leaving the institution of the bankruptcy council. It's a long way off, to a very large extent, hastening the process. Then the procedure is set up so that the procedure is made more efficient and faster by preventing individual procedures from being drawn apart, and this is the introduction of these time frames, and we now appreciate this effort to limit precisely the length of the procedure with that note that I have already repeatedly pointed out to limit and litigation in any case. It's not just the law of litigation now. It is very easy to resolve exactly the changes to this bankruptcy law that then perfectly fits into that draft of the Law on Prosecution. And what seems most important to me, and what the proposer here ignores. We, here, took place in the Croatian Parliament recently voted for amendments to the Executive Law. They are largely restoring the situation before our significant novel that has taken care of changes and bankruptcy laws. So we can't talk about amendments to the bankruptcy law if it hasn't happened in that sense in the Implementing Law. And you have amended the Executive Act, but it is not related to these changes that are expected and where the results of this bankruptcy process are expected. Especially in the pursuit of the quests of distinct believers. Therefore, there is no result of the bankruptcy procedure unless an amendment to the Executive Act occurs in that single package. You've already got it all set up. It used to be in law form and passed. Unfortunately, those standards never came into force. The amendment has derivated these implementing acts in this sense, the executive law which speaks precisely about this resolution of the relationship between the executive proceedings and the bankruptcy procedure. And don't forget, too, why often we here in, from the SDP, point out the change of criminal law in terms of incrimination of economic crime. So why are you waiting with that? So who's in the interest? Well, that devalues the whole policy. People are confused. They cannot understand that it can be damaged, destroyed the company, remain in debt to the state, to the workers and that no one is responsible for it. Well, it's a crime everywhere. But what did we do? Here's an amendment to the Court Register Act. We were just warning what was going to happen? That there can't be a quick registration either under the "Quick HR" registration of those companies that remain in debt. Which not only fell into some momentary indifference. It's what long-term court proceedings have been against, which have lost all instances, and you can imagine how long it's been going on. And then when he finally ends up overnight, he's starting a company. They're the most intense ones you've ever had. Unfortunately, these ominous predictions happened, and here's the business diary yesterday announced that "Quietly" is a shame precisely because of those conscientious entrepreneurs whose program is certainly in need. And that's how we blamble ourselves that "Quick HR" has become the service of non-equivocal entrepreneurs. You've been warned or the government has, the government has been warned, you here from most of what's going to happen? So to whom it serves the honor to now laugh this Stone Ingrad as much power as it has helped him whether he is conscious or unconscious and laughing to everyone. That's how it is when he's already been forced after what the government has written him off, let's let that story go, so still forced the other part to pay. It is beautifully formed overnight by "Hurry HR", another company that no longer corresponds to this debt that stands out here at a free estimate of the media of more than half a billion kuna. And then we deal here with the technical regulations regarding bankruptcy itself. Well, that's not, uh, a bankruptcy procedure, so he really doesn't make sense. Unless someone is responsible for such lawlessness, unless the proceedings are linked to the Law on Procedural Procedure, limit the deadlines of all stages, unless the exercise is effective. And if I say bankruptcy proceedings won't be linked to the Executive Act. That is why you quickly change the executive procedure again in the sense we had, only then do the provisions of the bankruptcy procedure in this regard win on their importance. One of the important newspapers here is that which seems to be making my situation worse, and this is the situation that more of the president of the trade court, the High Court of Commerce, does not determine the list of bankruptcy managers, but rather gives such authority to the minister. If we weren't satisfied with the existing solution then we had to work out that standard. Do one analysis. Because all those involved in court proceedings, something was said by counterpart Linic in his replica, how, then, to improve the situation and how to lead to greater transparency of those participants who are neither court nor party, and who often know how to make the situation worse? Of course, it's always about one minority but then it throws one evil or one bad picture at the whole, the whole kind of procedure. As you're doing in the case... and about the bankruptcy managers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You really should finally do one analysis. How do bankruptcy managers work? How is it that some are fast and efficient while others have large numbers and are inefficient? With this problem, this problem was, of course, burdening and burdening the former government, and I think it was very good. And on that trail, we need to develop this whole process, not a matter of rejuvenation and authority to the minister. The law has already made changes to the law in 2003. They set things up in such a way that the bankruptcy manager only gets paid when he does the procedure. We know that until then, the situation was such that he had his monthly allowance. And it was only in his interest, so it was also the law to make it take as long as possible and to practically eat his bankruptcy mass, if he's in the process at all. Therefore, the government was given the authority to determine by its regulation the amount, manner of payment and deadlines when bankruptcy managers would be paid. It's already that fact, if you're following a little bit of an analysis of the procedures themselves, in that sense, it has accelerated the proceedings. But I'll be back again, distracting the speed of bankruptcy proceedings just the duration of the lawsuit. And here you see, today we hear from the ruling majority that exactly bankruptcy isn't, where only the sense of bankruptcy is to complete the procedure as soon as possible, that the workers here charge something, but to stay out of jobs, but, in fact, they're talking about redecorating and saving jobs. Well, it seems to me like I'm listening to Slavko Linic when he was Deputy Prime Minister, who was then named Slavko Stečaka, who was accused of being a Croatian economy killer. I'm glad you made progress in that sense, but none of this business unless we return the incrimination of economic crime. Then we will consider that you have a serious will and also an amendment to the executive law that will make sense of these changes that some let's be realistic really good. And to point out, some program, here it seems to me that my colleague Kovacevic pointed out that we were raised during the former government's large loan to the World Bank, technical assistance in connection with bankruptcy. It's a single program and it's a model that's remarkable, a program that's been developing tremendously. I don't know in what sense he goes on, how much money is being spent now, but it was one program that was the most successful. Why it is also important for sick companies to end up here as soon as possible. That's exactly what this loan was all about. Because it is known, if these actions last a long time, a bankruptcy whirlwind and healthy businesses simply sink into that bankruptcy. So once again we have all the elements, or we can have instruments. I don't know why you don't use it, I don't know why you gave it up to punish those who manufacture it, and ended up...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56894	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague says people are confused by this law. And I think people are confused that you're only talking about what you wanted to do and what you should have done. And they're confused because they don't know what you've spent four years in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56896	Thank you. Replica, Your Honor... The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56897	Article 209 has been injured. A colleague came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. I never said a word, listen to a phonogram, I didn't say a word about confusion. People aren't confused anymore, they're all clear. I didn't say they were confused.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56898	I also heard you used the word "confusion," so we can listen to this, we can listen to the phonogram. But it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Replica, the esteemed representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56899	Thank you very much. My colleague Ingrid spoke about the results of the novels so far and the possible reasons why this novel would give these or those results well spoke. But she forgot that unfortunately, when you want to see something or give an assessment of something, you have to have at least the most basic analysis. Today, we do not even have the most basic efficiency analysis of what the impact of the novels so far has been or what the projection of these novels will be. And every year, or every three years, the same weights are repeated. At the same time, we have neither a minimum nor a minimum of solidarity between social partners and experts. The conclusions we make don't come true. The analysis cannot confirm or deny what measures were positive, which were negative. Unfortunately, workers know that everything about them always ends worst.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56900	Replica, the esteemed representative Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56901	Mr. Vice President, here, I'm going to replicate to an esteemed colleague in that part of her presentation where the Government's Hitro programme directly linked to economic crime or all those problems we have in economic operators in terms of their business. Because it really seems to me that in that sense the thesis put in place really doesn't make sense. Because if we understand and accept, and that is indeed true, the HItro programme that is actually going towards eliminating all bureaucratic obstacles, both in time and in any other sense, to help the economies, to help small and medium-sized businessmen actually get what they need in one place to start production processes and in that sense to make this bureaucratic as we call it actually a device in that sense and to brake the segment. So, absolutely as one positive action, a positive programme or a project in my opinion cannot in any way be connected to any anomalies that we have in those economic operators. What the paper says at the end of the line, newspaper colleagues have never been a source of rights. So, in that segment where you spoke, and in terms of running or initiating bankruptcy proceedings, and in which, there were such or such irregularities or anomalies. Because if that were the case, then by that logic, or by the sequence of such logic, we would solve the problem in a way that slows down everything we have as positive and recognizable in the HItro programme, and then we would solve these problems that go directly on criminal responsibility, on criminal law, on criminal charges. These are two different things to me, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the period of time of 4 years is really a significant period of time when these things could in particular be criminally defined. And not to say, to initiate all those mechanisms to process and to make those irregularities that you were talking about, so as a former minister and correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56902	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56903	Good work, buddy. That's exactly what you're saying. It's done. So look at the 2003 novel that it contained everything. This particular incrimination of economic crime. Then we made it impossible for the Court Register Act to register companies of unconscious people, businessmen. So, exactly, they need to be lifted. But they've been suspended with the changes. I don't know why you should have changed the law on the court register that you're all removing from these barriers. Well, after all, there are no obstacles to registering exactly those, I repeat, who have remained in debt, who have stolen to be simpler and to be clearer here and the state and the workers. How did "The Stone of Ingrad" trick the believers? In November of last year, "Kamen Ingrad" founded the company "Kamen Ingrad – Low Construction", which is registered for the activities of road construction, supervision and the like. This... In its business it contains the most important activities of "The Stone of Ingrad" and both companies have only been established to take over the new activity of "The Stone of Ingrad" and we have been modified by the Law on the Court Register in order to prevent this kind of thing, while allowing conscious people to quickly establish the company. [[You don't understand.]] I don't mind, though. But why did you let these people, the amendments to the law happened on the court register, I don't know where you were then, look at "The People's Newspaper," number 54/05. So last year, these changes that allow this to happen, and then we warned that this would happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56904	Thank you. Replica, the respected vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56905	Dear colleagues, Ingrid, I'd like to tell you that this is article 9, 10 and 11. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law expresses a very specific approach. Namely so-called A customerist approach in a law where a single resolution ministry seeks to mark its own leno in which it will have a certain influence beyond the government, past courts unnecessarily. Because it shows here that the list of bankruptcy managers will now be proposed by the minister rather than by the President of the Trade Court. On the other hand, the examinations will be prescribed by the competent minister, not by more the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who should not only determine the exams for the bankruptcy manager but also by the criteria and method of calculating and paying the award to the bankruptcy managers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who is responsible for law enforcement, etc. and thirdly, in fact, Article 9 amending Article 20(1) amends the criteria for a bankruptcy manager other than professional expertise in business experience, introduces a naturally passed examination for the creditor and the same in Article 3, amends the views relating to the possible conflict of interest where a new moment is in place, and the offences which do not seem unworthy of carrying out the duties of the creditor. It is not mentioned which works are but is given a general list of formulations which opens up the discretionary assessment space to assess what is the work that makes it unworthy, etc. This opens up the space for you to actually have your laziness through which you can influence that you put your merited people from your party or your party's sympathisers in certain places, and thus we will not contribute to the achievement of the bankruptcy law and establish through the bankruptcy law of financial and economic stability. I think these are completely unnecessary provisions and they are harmful provisions, because they are actually disabling the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Do you know what it means to ask that now, instead of the Government, they prescribe the conditions and criteria of passing exams and the way in which they are charged... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56906	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56907	Thank you, colleague Arlovich. I'm glad you've just apostropheded this thing, which is essentially the most controversial, and it's causing a huge mirage and suspicion. I don't know who it occurred to think that such a solution, so the list of bankruptcy managers no longer determines the President of the High Court of Commerce, could have found any other solution, but a minister. Please, the minister to do things like this, then it's clear what he wants to do. Even if you don't want to, you can't get away from such an impression. And in the end, if it's already incorporated into the law, it's hard to resist it once they call it that. The Minister of Justice to draw up a list and do so in time, where at all, in time that is not limited at all. ... There is only one obligation to request the opinion of commercial courts and competent chambers. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So there's no saying that this is a step... and that you just have to look for a new solution, if you don't then stay with the old solution. Finally, with the right of your colleague Arlovic, you warn that it is clear that the policy path is directly involved in the very course of the bankruptcy process, and that is not for anyone's benefit. After all, often bankruptcy procedures are burdened to involve politics. This way he'll be out of every doubt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56908	Thank you. The session continues at 3 p.m. and is scheduled for the distinguished representative Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56909	... We continue the session and this item on the agenda, and Mr. Representative Slavko Linić is next. [[Home is not saved.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56910	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my debate, I would like to remain more at the general discussions of the proposed law. And what's interesting is that we only have two pages of the opening argument. In these two pages of the opening argument, what can we conclude? Law passed in 96 C.E. and to the present day 3 amendments that characterized 2000 and 2003. This can be linked to a very clear policy of the coalition government which has tried to solve the problem of non-payments of total indifference of the system and in a way that through the course very clearly comes to the knowledge and facts that the subjects have ceased to function, and which entities can still be saved in commercial law. And that was the reason to be in the 2000 period. In 2003, it reached out that through bankruptcy, through judicial proceedings, it was very clear that the answers that the debtors could be saved, which were assessed by the debtors that they had died and that their claims were incurable. Of course, in that period, what was characteristic we saw and the weaknesses of the judicial authorities that acted in actions, bankruptcys and who contributed, I would say, to the general thought that bankruptcy is unnecessary, that bankruptcy is the closure of the workplace. Who essentially sought to derivate the institution of judicial misunderstanding between creditors and debtors. And this was the reason especially for the 2003 law and amendments, to make it very clear to try to reduce the impact of bankruptcy judges who were negatively assessed. To try to find the possibility of including multiple bankruptcy managers to avoid practice that individuals lead 20 and 30 bankruptcys. This was the reason that, in some ways, with clearly defined deadlines within 6 months, joint court and creditors and employees would try to say which bankruptcy debtor would be saved. And these deadlines were clearly defined by procedures and time periods in which an answer was to be given which was a bankruptcy debtor and it was a battle to save jobs. And of course, after that, what's most important, if there's no solution to that, the ratio of real estate sales, the sale of property to make up for the creditors, we tried to find a solution through an institution that at the time showed high efficiency, which is FINA unlike bankruptcy, bankruptcy managers who showed no interest in keeping the property and being accountable to the creditors. Today, by estimating all this, what can we find on page one? The formulation observes the consequences of the application of the latest amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law. After 2 years of application, it should be estimated that the solutions offered, some of which seemed successful and expected to contribute to the functioning, simplification, efficiency and acceleration of bankruptcy proceedings, produced the opposite effect. It's written here. By reading this, a man asks himself a question, which is why there was the opposite effect. And that's where we don't even run the controversy today. And my opinion is that the reason is the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, the irresponsibility of the judiciary or vice versa, the responsibility of the judiciary for not applying the law. However, the conduct of the judiciary also points to the formulations behind it. Because they're trying to say something was even constitutionally questionable. Who can think about whether something was questionable constitutionally if no procedure for establishing the constitutionality of this Law was launched? Someone's saying FINA isn't a good solution, someone's trying to say it wasn't a good solution either in part of the short deadlines to carry out the bankruptcy process. Yeah, that's consistent. This is essentially a transfer of the thinking of the judiciary that did not comply with the existing law. It didn't work, and let's not be surprised. Now we're asking ourselves a question here, are we going to have an open discussion about the bankruptcy, the whole time the judiciary didn't pass the exam. The judiciary didn't do it right, and in order to fight for the debtor, the battle for jobs, and I would say, responsibility to the believers. The justice system isn't... And if that's a fact, then the question is, should we change the law? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I see, what we are doing today, we acknowledge that we do not want to fight the judiciary, that we do not want to give an assessment of the judiciary, and the whole of Europe is giving it. The whole of Europe gives an assessment of this judiciary. The world's trying to tell you is not a good situation in the judiciary. He doesn't respect the laws, he doesn't enforce the laws, and it carries partial guilt because a good part of our company has failed and our jobs are closed. No, we resort to a change of law. Well, some of that goes back to old solutions. Were those old solutions more effective? No, they weren't bad, but the judiciary didn't do them, and we're just going back. Is that gonna get us a more effective judiciary? We won't. And there are our problems. Very often in this House we reach for changes in the law because we do not want to seek the responsibility of those who are inefficient in law enforcement. And in fact, we accept that we are withdrawing a mistake on the legislator, so the legislator is guilty. He had a good intention, but he didn't define it well. And listen, if we go back slowly to the history of law, if we come in a little bit, what the lawman has to think about. Even though it's in laws as it is written here, what's our goal? Speed up procedures, be more responsible to the believers, try to protect jobs. Those who implement that law can read the law's intention, they can come up with it. All their work must be directed in this way and there is no problem with small repairs to remove shortcomings, but no, we are changing the whole solution. That's why I'm afraid, I'm not going to evaluate the current solutions, that we'll be more successful. Why? Well, because in these arguments, we have no analysis of who's to blame that some of the solutions in the law so far have not been applied and have not given effect. No single bankruptcy judge has strategically defined in 5 months which debtors save and in which way, no single judge has found that solution with the creditors. If we have already drawn some companies out of bankruptcy by accelerated procedures, I would like to say that the executive authority has always done so, by caring for the workplace in certain cases, offering the creditors of the settlements, she has sold her claims just to save jobs. It was the business of bankruptcy judges, bankruptcy managers. It was not done, and therefore by running away from the evaluation of who is responsible for the non-implementation of this Law by accepting guilt and by changing the law again, my opinion in two years will be discussed again. I just hope that in two years we will be wiser and that once we try to say it is impossible to fix the laws so that those responsible for law enforcement will make them respect them and that what the legislator wants to say in these laws is implemented in action, and the messages are for all these changes to speed up procedures, raise responsibility, find capable people who can solve the economy even though it is in crisis. I believe we'll have to make these conclusions in two years, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56911	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate individually, we still have three applications in five minutes on behalf of the clubs. The first is Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56912	... that they will not make any objection to the provisions of this Law. [[Specially enabled.]] This Law, which has been passed in fact and which has been changed several times so far, is based on the European Union's liquids, it has been done by reputation of the German bankruptcy law and it is not disputed that in Germany such a law has received good results, that in Germany bankruptcy works quite well, but similar such a law has unfortunately not produced results for us. I think that in this debate we have shown all one agreement. These changes that are proposed today, of course, in the first reading, which is very good that we can improve some of his things by reading the second reading, these changes are about finding solutions that would actually lead to an even more quality of opportunity for this bankruptcy process, which is undoubtedly slow and ineffective, to speed up this process. We believe that these changes do not even change the important spirit of the law, which is significantly changed with the 2003 novel and many good things that were incorporated into this novel in 2003 remain in force, and they were at a time when they were actually one step and one tendency to make this bankruptcy as efficient as possible. This during practice has shown that some of its provisions are not really appropriate, have not given certain results and I do not think it is really controversial, because the law suggests that workers demand and put all of the workers' claims in the first payment order, the higher payment order, unlike what was so far in two-thirds of what has been limited so far. The only question is whether in principle our bankruptcys will be able to be realised, meaning and charged. I don't think it's questionable if this law really wants a prior procedure in which general facts are being determined whether there's a reason for a three-month bankruptcy, I also think it's a correct institute. The appeal is prescribed in bankruptcy that it needs to be resolved in 60 days, different status something has... Believers, they are limited to the right to submit proposals for the launch and opening of bankruptcy proceedings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also see here a change in the management of the bankruptcy process itself, the judge now manages another procedural instrument, a conclusion against which he has no right to appeal so that it tends to speed up the process once. The Institute is also simplifying the return of things to bankruptcy, which is also determined by the judge, so it is possible to do so within a short period of time. We see that a lot of these institutes that are here right now have a desire and intend to speed up this bankruptcy process and make it as effective as possible because in our bankruptcy procedure really when we look at it, we have short sleeves and employees and state and religion, only... Believers who actually have the right to separate settlement on a special property, they manage to see something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There have been a lot of speeches and about bankruptcy managers, the solution of the law so far has been to appoint them, that the list is determined by the President of the High Court of Commerce, here it is proposed to be a minister, but here I must say that here this list and these decisions are based on which someone is going on that list that they represent an administrative act against which legal protection is possible, and in this way I don't think we should view this norm as an attempt to politicise with a list of bankruptcy managers. What I said and in the opening statement, we as a Croatian Democratic Community club advocate and ask the Government to limit the number of bankruptcy proceedings that a bankruptcy manager may be able to conduct, because looking somehow logically, maybe it shouldn't be for a clear reason because someone can't simply lead by a simple logic of 20 procedures, but if it leads then write to him that it can't be so. And so we will support this proposal in the first reading, we think it is good and we think it will lead to some improvements, but the fundamental problem is what I said is in the late opening of bankruptcy procedures because you know there is nothing a doctor can do about it when a patient comes from a disease that has already escalated and has reached some disproportionate limits. Unfortunately, that's the way it is in our bankruptcy, they open up when there's almost no property anymore, when those claims are too big and then they can't even fix 20 bankruptcy managers things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56913	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56914	Dear Mr Vice-President, well-respected counterpart Bosnjakovic has argued that this law and the harmonisation of our legislation with the legal gains of the European Union is not true because it has a PZ code, there is no PZE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56915	Thank you. Five minutes on behalf of the HSU Club Mr. Representative Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56916	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Croatian Retirement Party, I would refer to Article 10 of the Amending and Supplementary Law on the establishment of a list of bankruptcy managers. We consider the proposal for this article the most banignantly stated by excessive norms and, in the end, by violating the trio of authorities and by intervening the jurisdiction or influence of the executive authority on the judicial authority when defining the list of bankruptcy managers. The executive power has a very strong role to play since the state is almost always a significant believer and has a representative on the Committee of Believers. We believe that this is the first-class task of the High Court of Commerce, the authority of the executive authority should be retained in the framework of Article 10(5) of the Law proposal. We quote "The minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary will specifically prescribe the terms and procedures of the appointment and the manner of monitoring the work of the bankruptcy managers." This bill will be supported by HSU for a second reading because we appreciate it with a good basis for making a good final bill. It is proposed to introduce some of the already tried bankruptcy law institutes. It is more socially sensitive as regards the classification of work claims in the first payment order. We believe that the proposer will respect the observations related to Article 75 of the proposal or Article 173(2). A bankruptcy law which we claim to be an existing formulation is better than proposed. We believe that the promoter has the will and desire to install provisions that may be in the function of preventing bankruptcy through the Institute of Pre-fitting or Forced Deals and all in the function of protecting activities and preserving jobs and possible abuse of bankruptcy proceedings in the function of speculation of real estate. We find it logical that as long as we have privileged believers, we should have provisions on pre-fashion settlement. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the HSU also proposes conclusions that oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 28 April 2004 until the final draft amending and supplementing law. The text of the reasoned conclusion was delivered on the benches of the representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56917	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, five minutes, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rožić. He's gone. He's losing his right. And on behalf of the SDP Club, five minutes later, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56918	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! It is simply necessary to repeat some of the emphasis that came from the Social Democratic Party's bench on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law. It is undeniable that the law is changed without sufficient analysis of the effects of the previous law. This assessment in itself discredits the new proposal. If it is known that the stated objectives of this law are only the efficiency of the collection of claims by creditors, we cannot be satisfied or support such a proposal because the purpose in this situation in the Croatian economy and Croatian society is to protect the programme and jobs more than to protect the creditors. The more our experience suggests bankruptcy can also be manipulation. It can be caused not for economic or financial reasons but for speculative reasons, and that the law does not go into job protection tells the proposal for a provision in Article 71 of this proposal of the law which deletes the provisions on the sale of the total assets of the creditor. In order to protect the programme of work, the programme of activity of the creditor should only be distributed to charge creditors. So, in a situation that is in Croatian society, Croatia's economy especially if we have 300 thousand unemployed workers in mind, and that number stagnates for several years or does not change for several years without installing provisions that will favour job protection. Until the second reading, a solution can be found and returned to the law of the provisions on the sale of the total assets of the creditor. As for the collection of workers' claims, of course we support changes in order of charge in favour of workers. Of course we support that. And one more important thing to say about business or bank bankruptcy. Since Croatia has a situation in its banking system as it has, the owners of Croatian banks are foreigners in the bill remains that the payment in the bankruptcy of investors' banks in the bank, savings and others in fifth place. There's no reason to protect us in this bank situation. We must work to protect, therefore, users or savings in banks and thus send a message that the state is taking care of our savings and that is ultimately the purpose of banking business to strengthen the bank's responsibility towards its savings. So, if our demands, our proposals are adopted by the proposer until the second reading, we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56919	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, final Mrs. Snježana Bagic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56920	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, please allow me on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to thank you for discussing this law which is not an easy law. We can talk about a tough law because it solves difficult situations. And this law, which is called the bankruptcy law and which is carried out by commercial courts, is also implemented in the court proceedings, which I said in the introduction, and it seems to me that some MPs, in their opening statement, have a single economic purpose and weight in the first place. And that's why it's heavy. Because he solves economic and social issues. There's been a lot of talk here about what's the point or the purpose of the law. It is clearly prescribed by law itself, the law that we passed in 1996 and, as has already been said, changed several times. Let me once again just remind all of us what the objectives of the bankruptcy are? The bankruptcy procedure shall be carried out for the purposes of the joint settlement of the creditor's creditor by cashing in his assets and by dividing the funds collected to the creditors. During the bankruptcy procedure, the restructure of debtors can be carried out... Chapter 6 of this Act in order to regulate the legal position of the debtor and his relationship with the believers, and in particular to maintain its activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if we start from this legal definition of a provision the first goal is yet a set... a creditor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this does not mean that when a bankruptcy procedure is initiated, and there must be a bankruptcy procedure or completion of the bankruptcy procedure. This does not mean that you should not insist on having been both the goal and one of the objectives of this law to be implemented by the reshuffle... a plan to allow that debtor to remain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only that part is not exclusively the jurisdiction of the judiciary. For this, there must be an interest and initiative of all those who are involved in the bankruptcy process, and these are the creditors in the first place and their bodies and the very insolvencyary debtor. And that's the problem. And that brings us to another question that is not exclusively and only related to the bankruptcy law, so much so that it determines who initiates bankruptcy proceedings. Why is it that those who are authorised, in charge, do not initiate bankruptcy proceedings or are not instigated within the legal time limits? Because then we face the fact that, unfortunately, when a bankruptcy procedure is initiated, there is no property from which all the religious people and among them are employees. And that's why it's one question that we're going around and about where we're going and where the judiciary comes into the situation to handle bankruptcy often really finds themselves in an uninvited situation because there's no property that could be shared. But what seemed to have been the changes so far and what seems to have been these changes is that when a bankruptcy procedure occurs, through certain deadlines, through their shortening and through some other changes, this process still speeds up and, of course, completes the possibility of a bankruptcy plan. With the judges who conduct the procedure seem to me, it is my personal opinion that more responsibility is and therefore greater interest is who will be the bankruptcy manager because they assume the functions of the entire administration. The dictionaries are the father and mother of this society and should indeed serve him for the good and be the main initiators and motivators of possible change and the rest of that society. The court should say so, but it's not a front-row initiative in court. Therefore, the question behind this speaker also raised the most attention to who will and will in future appoint bankruptcy managers, or how we will actually get those persons who, according to their professional definition and basic convictions, will best do the hard work of a bankruptcy manager in a company that is in great difficulty and that threatens to die. The government as a proposer will really carefully consider that the proposed solutions do not have any effect. Because I think it's of interest to all of them to be persons who are professional, who will pass proper checks, who will meet the required criteria, whose work will be checked. Whose prizes will be under control and limited and, of course, to which they will also have to account for their work. In this bill of law, it is a proposal to be the Ministry of Justice not because the Ministry of Justice as an executive authority would want to control it because in a situation where so many objections to someone should not even be pushed so it took over on itself was the idea of being the body that actually... implemented by bankruptcy managers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the end of the line, there were a lot of objections and when the list was established by the High Court of Commerce, but once again, all the reasons for and against may need to be receded, and a certain solution should be offered in the final draft of the law. And finally, as we all seem to have found here when it comes to bankruptcy as a question of both economic and social and legal was a link to some and other regulations and laws, so if you allow the final word just to say that when amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register are introduced those certificates that the founder of the company has no shares and shares, just allow a brief reminder. That was the case in 1999, and then they were changed, and they were abolished in 2003 for two reasons. The first reason was that the 2003 Amendments and the additions to the 2003 Act on Commercial Companies were prescribed that, in order to change the ownership structure of the underlying capital, it became a relevant situation in the book of special shares, and only a notice is provided in the court register. Therefore, the court register could not have had that information, and according to these changes, the Law on the Court Register had to be dealt with, and unfortunately, it proved in practice that the path which was paved by good intentions was not fully controlled in practice because it was only the founder or co-founder to be delivered, and then in the case of shares and shares, and so on, especially in the case of the shares, you no longer have control over when the shares changed. So that provision could not be fully respected. But I thank you for the contribution of all the MPs. This is the way for this Law to really be better, better quality, and indeed to achieve the goal of these fourth changes that we all aim to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56921	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56922	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accountancy Act, first reading. I am voting on the next conclusion, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law, any objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes for and 6 abstentions reached the proposed conclusion. We have a proposal from the Club of Representatives of the SDU. What club? HSU. And what is this SDU? It doesn't? I am voting on the next conclusion, the government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to implement the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 28 April 2004 until the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law. I ask State Secretary Snježana Bagic to be made aware of this proposal's conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56924	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, as regards the proposal for a conclusion proposed by the Croatian party of pensioners, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that by proposing the amendment and supplementation of the Law of this proposal, it has proposed a law proposing amendments and additions to ensure a more effective change of law, thus fulfilling the conclusion of 28 April 2004. However, starting from the reasons set out in this conclusion and from the fact that the aim of the law being truly better and more practical in practice, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is willing to commit to organise discussions, consultations, round tables with experts and social partners between the two readings, meaning that the final draft law will be drawn up, in order to discuss any additional observations and suggestions including this House of Higher Education and to provide a better text of the final draft of the law in the parliamentary procedure. The more the Government normally discusses all economic laws including this regular debate on... to the partners and to discuss on the Economic and Social Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the government is ready to deliver information to the Parliament along with this final bill of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56925	What about your position on accepting or not accepting the proposal for a conclusion?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56926	Mr. President, the government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the conclusion itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56927	Thank you very much. The HSU Club is a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56928	Mr. President, I really didn't understand anything here. In view of the fact that the argument which points to the realization of the conclusion is accepted and the conclusion is not accepted, the Government is obliged to carry out what has not been done in the conclusion of 28.4.2004, I do not understand anything. It would therefore make sense to me when the government accepted the explanation that it had accepted the conclusion. I'm asking for a vote on this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-15-0.u56929	If I have understood the government, it is true that it has accepted the spirit of that conclusion and that it will organize it all together so that no more formalized conclusion is needed. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. ... The spirit of the conclusion and the spirit of the law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The result? 23 for, 51 against, 14 abstentions. So the conclusion was not accepted but his spirit was accepted.
