ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55087	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Strategy for Justice Reform, which was adopted at the cabinet's meeting last September 22nd and this document marks a new period in the development of the Croatian judiciary. The first phase in which a new institutional framework was established was successfully completed in 2004. This view is also confirmed in the opinion of the European Commission itself on the Croatian application for membership in the European Union, which estimates that the Republic of Croatia is a democracy with stable institutions that function properly within the limits of their powers and that there are no major problems in ensuring the rule of law and in respect of respect for human rights. In the second phase, reform efforts are aimed at further strengthening judicial independence and at increasing the exact effectiveness of the judicial system. In line with this goal, the Ministry of Justice has started planning and implementing a whole series of concrete measures that have been formally formed in the document of the Justice Reform Strategy. The Justice Reform Strategy provides for a whole series of concrete measures to increase the effectiveness, independence, independence and impartiality of the judiciary. These measures concern the resolution of all the backlogs accumulated in previous years, the reduction of the duration of the court proceedings, the rationalisation of the structure of the network of courts, the modernisation of the judicial administration in particular by the introduction of an integrated system of judicial management, the introduction of a new system of free legal assistance, the development of an alternative way of resolving disputes, the new system of training of judicial staff within the Justice Academy, the fight against crime particularly organised and the greater openness and transparency of the judiciary. The strategy of judicial reform is a fundamental document based on public policy to strengthen the ability of the Croatian judiciary, so modern, independent and effective judiciary is not only a political condition for Croatia's entry into the European Union, but above all a commitment to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have prepared at Power Point some basic guidelines for judicial reform. We can start by strengthening the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. In the first place, we put emphasis on the Judicial Academy, i.e. on professional training for judicial officials and employees, which would include the problem of professional ethics and responsibilities and prepared a whole series of programs and workshops to strengthen awareness and professional responsibilities. The new Law on Courts, amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council and amendments and additions to the Law on State Lawyers are only one, an even stronger contribution to strengthening the rule of law. The law on courts has recently been adopted in this House of Commons and has built on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. So for three years, the uniform application of the law by the Supreme Court. The criteria for assessing the work of judges have been developed, administrative oversight of the work of the judicial administration is being introduced, courts are being opened up to the public by the introduction of court spokesmans, and we have opened up the possibility of including misdemeanor and municipal courts through the pilot project. And of course, mandatory training of judicial officials and employees through the judicial academy system. And the Law on the State Judicial Council, which this House also adopted, is another contribution to strengthening the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. Much better defined tighter procedures are being conducted, so the deadline has been extended to three years for the launch of a tighter procedure. It determines the height of the salary for a judge who is temporarily away from duty. A clear procedure for discharging judges from the conduct of a judicial duty and a strict procedure must be completed within three years of the time when the judge is away from office. The proposal to amend the Law on State Attorney's Office, which will soon be in front of this House, will regulate the jurisdiction of civil administration departments, municipal and countyal and state-owned courts of the Republic of Croatia. The same will regulate representation powers in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, improve internal supervision of the work of state lawyers and create a system of objective evaluation of the state's attorney. It will also allow the establishment of a department for international legal assistance and co-operation, disseminating the affairs of the state's attorney's office and judicial administration and improving the procedure for the appointment and resolution of state attorneys and deputies. Property card will be introduced for state attorneys and data from the work of the state's attorney's office that should be classified will be specified. It will also introduce the obligation of the Judicial Academy for State Lawyers through this Law on State Attorneys. And now, on the third slide, you can see what creates an effective judiciary. The rationalisation of the structure and organisation of courts, the reduction of outstanding cases and the reduction of the duration of court proceedings. What's the status? As for the organisation of a network of courts, it is too large and unsuitable for the number of courts, given the size of the state and population. In total, we have 266 courts, which is a really large number. And the current judicial network is financially invaluable and requires huge structural investment. We need a modern, efficient and accessible network of courts and through these pilot projects that we have opened up... The law in courts, therefore the merger of criminal and municipal courts, will be followed by the effectiveness of the way in which it works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The measures to be taken to analyse the rationalisation and organisation of courts will in any case be seen the economic effects of the merger of municipal and, courts and the transfer of criminal cases to, from county courts to municipal courts. The pilot of projects of merger of criminal and municipal courts, as well as the merger of municipal and county courts, and an analysis of the unification of municipal and criminal courts will be considered. We also intend to establish an organisational task force for strategic planning within the ministry itself. When you look at the current situation, then the network of courts looks like this. If we look at the CARDS proposal, the CARDS project in 2002, which is based on the criteria taken by the European Union when it determines the distance of courts, then our map of courts would look like this. What would be the benefit of bringing the courts together? The first benefit is, today, the practical majority of small courts have only one or two judges, and most of these small courts would almost say they live. Rationalisation would indeed be in financial terms, but it would also mark every real possibility for each court to convene a council of several judges. The cost-effectiveness of such a court, a more uniform approach by the judiciary for all Croatian citizens, would be more uniform court practice, the possibility would be created, more possibilities for the exercise, specialisation and training of judges, and certainly would be the functioning of courts far better. Infrastructure investment at the moment, and it will also refer to next year, will be at the "justice market" in Zagreb and Split. It's the accommodation of all judicial bodies in one place. As far as the judicial administration is concerned, the maximum use of judicial oversight would be done and it would be done, as is already being done, to inform the judicial administration. As I have already said, the emphasis is great on education and on the Judicial Academy, so the centre for the training of judges and other judicial employees. And it is precisely the goal of establishing a modern and transparent way of managing the court. On the next slide, you can see the state of affairs of 31.12.2004, which refers to the reduction of backlogs, i.e. unresolved cases. In 31.12.2004, there were a million 637 thousand 698 unsolved cases in Croatia. When you look at this circle, most of them refer to executives, 32% of them are left behind, 19% land-books, 20% criminal cases, 17% litigation cases, 3% criminal cases, and the rest were 9%. In the past activities on the reform, we have turned to solving land and book gaps, and this project was launched in September 2004. At that time, the number of land and book backlogs was 359 thousand 500, so that in December 2005, the backlog would fall to 214 thousand 528. What have we done to fix the land-book situation so far? All land books have been digitized, so all 109 Land and Book Departments are now digitized, i.e. all 107 municipal courts. At the end of 2005, 55.06% of the data in digital format were copied, and 9.42% were verified. On the next chart, you can see very clearly how this number grew in December 2002 by August 2004, in order to fall rapidly in August 2004, and in December 2005, we have a serious reduction in backlogs by 144 thousand 972. What is our plan regarding land reforms and even solved, backlogs of unsolved items, and even state-of-the-art land books? The plan for this year is, by 31.12. this year to close all hand-run land books, i.e. keeping all land books in digital form. To solve all backlogs, these remaining, in land-book cases at all municipal courts in Croatia. So at the end of the year we have behind 0. To verify all land books in digital form, educate legal and informative all officials and judges working on land-based books, amend and naturally supplement certain regulations in order to achieve an effective process of enrolment of real estate, which means mainly shortening this process and harmonize the cadastrian and land-book situation. Update publishing z.k.a. The same day, when they are asked to, and to enlist the property immediately, and in the greatest grantines for up to seven days. The availability of information via the Internet is already present, and by the end of this year when all data in land books are overwritten, it would indeed be complete. And also form a land-book database that would be unique for all properties in the Republic of Croatia. The next group of lags are executives. Like I said, it's 32%. Amendments and additions to the Executive Act were made last year. The number of pending executive cases in October last year was 599 thousand 333. In Zagreb alone, there were 293,000 794. Today this number is significantly smaller, at the level of the entire country over 100,000 executives is smaller. On the next chart, we can see how the number of outstanding executives was moving in municipal courts from 98, when there were fewer than 100,000 of them by 2005 when the figure was indeed maximum and after this plan we started to implement and related to the performance, that number fell by 100,000 in just three months. Trade courts are most observable to see how much this deficit has been reduced in the last three months. Therefore, the result of the project to reduce deficits in executive cases in all municipal and commercial courts has dropped by 111 thousand 708 since the start of the operation. What's our plan? This year's plan is for public notebooks to solve performances based on credible documents. An eyewitness of real estate and movables sold in the executive procedure has been formed and the education of both judges and court perpetrators has started and sales commissions are opened. The plan is by the end of 2006 to solve all these backlogs. And the third group of backlogs, the third large group of backlogs, they're criminal cases. They're about 20% in the back. Small-value items are now burdening the work of misdemeanor courts, and therefore the efficiency of misdemeanor courts is very low right now. Our proposal is to bring through pilot projects some misdemeanor and municipal courts, and to transfer these cases of small value from infringing courts to administrative bodies because it is really much more expensive for a judge, a criminal judge than the value of this case, therefore the subject of small value. So what would be the final measures to reduce the backlogs of unsolved cases? Clear and objective confidential criteria for the quantity of the assessment of the work of all judges are introduced. In agreement with the Supreme Court, the delays will also be settled through compensation for additional work by judges. Work on old objects is encouraged with help and incentives through paid work and supervision. Measures to relocate judges from courts who have no delays in working in courts that have excessive delays are also already a measure that has started to take effect. The Supreme Court has started very seriously with a delegation of cases from burdened to less-loaded courts. The work of judicial advisers and court practitioners and special judicial support services are much more effective. A successful model of work of land-book reference with a license has been continued and the supervision is, of course, greatly now strengthened in the fight against backlogs in land-book items. As the third fundamental rule, the guidance in implementing the reform is to shorten the duration of the court proceedings. The new amendments and additions to the Implementing Act and the proposed amendments and amendments to the bankruptcy proceedings relate precisely to the acceleration of the proceedings before the courts, and on the other hand, since the Ministry of Justice has jurisdiction over courts and this legal possibility will also be used in the implementation of the reform. There is also the introduction of an integrated system for the information management of court files, an alternative way of resolving disputes, and you will soon see a proposal for a system of delivery of calls by electronic means for commercial courts. What's the point? The aim is to reduce the length of the court proceedings to a reasonable extent, to a level and to show greater transparency in the work of the court. The next emphasis we put on the judiciary which must also be in the role of judicial reform. This analyses the need for the development of programmes, education and implementation of all activities in the judicial administration and the management of files. An object management system shall be introduced and regulations, i.e. directives, comparative values and education and control methods shall be developed. A new way of managing judicial statistics is introduced and new objective criteria and indicators are developed to monitor the functioning of courts. Support is given to improving the work of the administrative court and an integrated system of case management is introduced. This graph of how the judiciary should look in the role of judicial reform, so what will the ASMS system bring us? Cost reduction, increased work speed and improved court procedures. We also put emphasis in this strategy on the role of the court bang. Professional training is based precisely on examples of court practice. We believe that it is necessary to establish the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court as the judicial body responsible for the authentic interpretation of national rules in proceedings before lower courts as a model of the interpretation of European Community law by the European Court of Justice. Official forms for judicial decisions shall also be introduced and in electronic form as well as for party submissions wherever justified and possible. They are also already in the design of electronic forms for party submissions whenever justified and possible. So it's going to be done like I said, electronic document exchange. And it seeks to make court practice available to all judicial structures and to all interested persons by informing the judiciary. You can also see on our website the judicial network and the implementation of court practice with free access to information. In cooperation with other competent authorities, the selection of key judicial decisions in disputes before the European Court of Justice relating to the protection of four freedoms, movement of persons, capital, goods and provision of services is also being prepared. The decisions are translated and will be published on the website of the Supreme Court. It is also intended to publish all the rightful decisions of the Croatian courts taken on the basis of the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the relevant regulations on the Supreme Court website in an integrated form. In the context of the professional training of judges in the Judicial Academy, it is necessary to stimulate cases related to breach of the agreement and to decide with an analysis of the interpretation of European law on the basis of the relevant decisions of the European Court of Justice in similar situations. Also include the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the European Court of Justice's elected verdicts in the justice examination programme from 1 January 2006 and within the Justice Academy. The next part of the reform is working on free legal aid. Free legal aid would give citizens the right to access to court, and to those with low social status. There's a law on free legal aid in the works. The draft law is in the final phase, and would set out the criteria for citizens who could meet the conditions of free legal assistance. It would also provide funding for a system of free legal aid, and a administrative body for free legal aid would be established at the Ministry of Justice. The aim, of course, is to allow all citizens access to the court. We put a great emphasis on this strategy in an alternative way of resolving disputes and this alternative way of resolving disputes within the framework of judicial reform is a big place. The pilot has already started work at the Commercial Court in Zagreb, and an education programme is being implemented as part of the Judicial Academy. What's the point? The objective is to achieve an optimal level of usability of alternative ways of resolving disputes. So, the first option for citizens and economic operators to settle disputes, not go straight to court. That way they'd cut the court's access right away. This is the structure of an alternative way of resolving disputes that you can see. And now we come to the next slide, which is education and professional development of the judiciary. The emphasis on the judicial academy is great. The task of the Judicial Academy is to define legal areas for which the education of judges, i.e. target groups for certain areas, is required. Create quality programs, both those systematic and ad hoc in already defined areas of law. Create a database of lecturers and students of the Judicial Academy and all other activities that judicial academys in Western countries have. On the next slide, you can see that the emphasis is also placed on the prevention of crime, especially corruption, terrorism and organised crime. And I'd say there are three areas of change in criminal law. Changes in USKOK and work on the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption, as well as a series of operational measures with a special emphasis on prevention. Amendments to the Penal Code, the first stage has already ended, the second stage is also before the end. The systematic policy of reducing and curbing crime continues. Penalties have been tightened by 15% incrimination, courts are quite limited in the imposition of milder penalties than prescribed in the law of legal changes in terms of terms and limits on the mitigation of penalties, and a total of sharp repression is about 50% incrimination. It is also ongoing, as I have already announced, reforming the criminal proceedings and reforming the criminal proceedings. In the case of USKOK's past amendments and additions to the Law of last year, USKOK's powers have been extended particularly in the investigative actions. He received stronger powers in the investigation process and experienced organisational improvements. When it comes to the national anti-corruption programme in our country, and this national programme will soon be in the government, and afterwards in front of this High House, the objectives of this national anti-corruption programme would be corrupt sanctioned, untapped to ensure respect. Strengthen professional ethics to state and local self-government and the economy to guarantee unlimited development. It provides citizens with a responsible public administration in their service and restores citizens' trust to local and state authorities. The final goal of this project would be to reduce corruption to a level from which it will not be an obstacle to social, economic and political development. This national programme, as proposed, contains specific tasks, explicitly, which are explicitly listed. The deadlines and responsibility for their achievement have been set. In addition, a whole series of operational measures with particular emphasis on prevention measures shall follow. A special witness protection unit is being established. Judges are educated as well as state lawyers, civil servants and employees of corruption and ethics. The assignment of the case shall be introduced with the help of the information technique. Regular and effective supervision of the judicial administration is also one of a number of operational measures. It establishes and monitors the property of judicial officials, introduces security checks on judges, state lawyers and candidates for those posts. It is going to further strengthen inter-institutional co-operation in the prevention of crime and corruption and also monitors the supply of the equipment needed for these measures. When it comes to international legal assistance and regional co-operation, seminars are introduced to improve the knowledge of foreign languages, standardised patterns in several languages and regional co-operation and international co-operation are further enhanced. The emphasis is also placed on relations with the media and the public because the aim is to improve public perception of the judiciary. Professional speakers are introduced in parallel to some courts, and they are greater and trained and educate the leadership of courts in public relations skills. There are also ways in which courts will inform the public about the fundamentals of the work of the judiciary, fundamental rights and obligations of the parties in the basic data process through several simple printed materials and the Internet and other available media. Annual reports on the results of the work of the courts and the judiciary themselves will also be published, both at national and local level. The reform will also be experienced by the prison system, especially by establishing a single database for the prison system, both prisoners and staff. And the special program is to handle specific groups of prisoners, drug addicts, post-traumatic programs and programs for sex offenders, etc. and the plan is also to build several more facilities. The further part includes the information of the judiciary. The information of the judiciary that has already started introduces an integrated system for the information management of court cases, which will make the length of the process of individual court cases aware of the minimum level and the information of the judiciary will be carried out through a series of projects, hence, from the systematic equipment of courts with information equipment, through the networking of courts into unique databases and the formation of electronic advertising panels. Here's about what those basic parts would be, the emphasis in this judicial reform strategy, this strategy is indeed a fundamental document on which we will continue to work very intensively, our goal is to create a modern, independent and effective judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55088	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55089	The imprecise statement by the minister's wife that the land book reform project was launched only in September 2004. The project of judicial reform and so did land books began much earlier in 2002 during the coalition government when a 7m-euro loan was raised from the World Bank, and in addition, a large amount of funds were allocated in the state budget, and it is precisely from these funds that employs over 500 people in the land departments, and then the reform began, however during, which does not deny the importance of what is today, but for the sake of the truth, this is a continuation, not a start.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55090	The second correction, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55091	So maybe there's just a correction to this quote that has reduced the number of pending cases at the top. There are a number of cases that have not been reduced unfortunately, and I quote here a statistical review for 2004, but not because, therefore, the number of non-resolved cases has not been reduced, but not because the judges have not dealt with, because they solve fewer cases each year, but still, in many cases, there are a number of pending cases, and this is because there is a huge inflow in each of these types of cases and in a number of cases there is a greater inflow of cases. I note, unfortunately, no reduction in the number of cases, as seen from the 2004 statistical review, was observed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55092	For 2005, it was, not for 2004. And the third correction, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55093	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Mrs. Secretary who has repeatedly told the judges they're being educated. The judges are educated because they have become judges, they can be educated, they can be educated, but they can't be educated, because in order to become a judge, they have to be educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55094	Peace, peace. Would the representative of the Justice Committee like to submit a report? Please, Mr. Radin. ... And when you say it, on time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Justice Committee, the esteemed president of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55095	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 32nd session held on 8 November 2005 the Strategy for reform of the judicial system with a plan of action and related contributions to the recommendations on the rationalisation of the network of courts, the development of alternative ways of resolving disputes and the development strategy of the information and communication system that has been delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 6 October 2005. The Committee considered the strategy for reforming the judicial system with an action plan as a parent working body. In her opening statement, the Ministers of Justice pointed out that the Strategy is a comprehensive document with the necessary measures to reform the judiciary and adapt the judicial system for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. The creation of an effective judicial system involves the implementation of the reorganisation and rationalisation of the judicial and state-law network, the reduction of outstanding cases, the prevention of crime, the discharge of courts from cases which are by their nature not judicial, the update of alternative ways of resolving disputes, the reduction of the length of the length of proceedings, the reorganisation of judicial administration, the unification of judicial practice, the introduction of free legal assistance in the function of protecting the rights of parties. The reorganisation and rationalisation of the judicial network will certainly cause a number of debates, so the Ministry of Justice decided to gradually change the introduction of a "pilot of projects" for certain municipal and criminal courts that do not have a sufficient number of cases and which work in the same areas. Envy results have been achieved on the settlement of land-marked items, and the digitisation of land-books, currently waiting for the registration of property for 3 months, the goal is to achieve a 7-day deadline. Another group of pending cases are executives, the objective of the action plan is to resolve the executives by the end of next year, so now this year. A system of integrated management of cases is introduced with the aim of reducing costs, increasing the speed of work, improving court procedures, carrying out a project to inform courts and state attorneys through cooperation with the World Bank. An important role in the further reform of the judiciary is the education of judges, judicial advisers and state lawyers who are conducted through the judicial academy and regional centres of the judicial academy. In accordance with the constitutional provisions guaranteeing equality of all persons before the law, a law on legal aid shall be drawn up in accordance with the legal property and standards of the European Union. As far as the prison system is concerned, the Republic of Croatia is following a European trend in increasing the number of prisoners, requiring the construction of new prison facilities. In the debate, the Committee members supported the Justice System Reform Strategy, noting that it was a comprehensive concept and strategically very precise document. The text of the document contains the following opinions and views. According to the number of content and procedures foreseen in the strategy, the opinion is that this document should be given full consent and support to Parliament in particular by achieving the enviable results in some segments, for example, the deadline for resolving land-based books from 900 days to 3 months, the number of executives and so on. The opinion is that part of the Strategy relating to the reorganisation and rationalisation of the network of courts will cause the most debate and will certainly be the most painful. In favour of the need to reorganise the network of courts, it was noted that the Republic of Croatia has a large number of regular and specialised courts that do not ensure a quick dispute resolution. Therefore, this part of the strategy that certainly does not meet the criteria of the European Union should be implemented gradually and within reasonable time limits. There is no local reason that would be stronger than the proposed strategy. The special interest in the Republic of Croatia should be in alternative forms of dispute resolution because the conduct of judicial proceedings everywhere in the world is expensive and disputes of small value rather than judicial authorities should be resolved by administrative bodies. It stressed that the implementation of the reform is extremely important in-house support, particularly the support of judges, state lawyers, judicial administrations, because without their efforts it will not be possible to implement draft plans. In particular, some previous discussions discussed the report on the work of the national lawyers for 2004 and discussed data on the number of criminal charges, indictments, convictions. The importance of the previous procedure, which determines the main debate, is highlighted. It is proposed to pay attention to the previous procedure and to develop an expert analysis with a comparative representation of some model European countries and to see the advantages and disadvantages of the previous procedure. With regard to the prison system, it is pointed out that the Republic of Croatia has good regulations such as the Law on the execution of prison sentences but that the prison system does not meet European standards for the reasons that our prisons are overcrowded, facilities in poor condition, equipment insufficient, professional housing incomplete. Measures on the prison system must be taken towards a solution to these problems. It has been stressed that material resources should be provided for the implementation of judicial system reform as a particularly responsible social procedure other than good political will. The idea of setting up specialised labour courts has been presented because there are good experiences in the Republic of Croatia in this area and their establishment would help to resolve work disputes faster. A certain skepticism has been expressed to the extent of the excessive work of judges that should contribute to resolving the backlogs and efficiency of the judiciary since judicial work is difficult and cannot be measured over time. In the final address of the Justice Ministers, he referred to the idea of setting up specialised courts, noting that we have too many courts to establish new ones and that there are not enough cases of this kind, so it is proposed to set up specialised departments within courts. She pointed out that the overtime payment measure yields good results in garneries and that cases older than five years would go to overtime. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided, with seven votes in favour and one abstention, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion: "It is being taken into account and accepted by the Strategy for reforming the judicial system with a plan of action." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55096	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? No, I don't. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55097	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities at the 35th session held on 31 January 2006 discussed the justice system reform strategy with an action plan and related contributions. The Committee held the hearing as an interested working body. The following comments and proposals were presented in the debate on this document. The strategy does not discuss what and when it will be taken to exercise the right of national minorities to be represented in judicial bodies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The new Law on Courts in Articles 74 and 8 also found that the appointment of judges must take into account the representation of judges of members of national minorities. The report by the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities presents data showing insufficient representation of minorities in courts and state attorneys. For this reason, the relevant strategy for reforming the judicial system as one of the objectives with the proposal for appropriate measures should provide for and achieve the appropriate representation of national minorities in judicial bodies in accordance with the constitutional law. In addition, the debate warned that nothing is proposed in the strategy to address the problem of the use of language and letter of national minorities in proceedings before judicial authorities in courts and in the State Attorney's Office. It is a law guaranteed to minorities by the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia in 2005. This minority law in practice has actually not been achieved. Until now, the competent authorities have not taken the necessary measures and the proposed strategy does not address this problem, and it is still unclear that and what it intends to take to achieve this minority law. As one of the measures under the judicial system reform, the strategy provides for the reorganisation of the network of courts by reducing the number or merger of existing courts and by different determinations of their real and local competences. And the implementation of this measure must certainly make sure that it does not make it difficult for courts to be available to citizens. It has been pointed out that in the Republic of Croatia there is a huge difference in development between regions as well as in the density of population population, which should certainly be taken into account when implementing this measure. In particular, this is a problem in areas of special state concern and islands where communications are weak and prevailing in the old and socially endangered population, and this must be taken into account in the proposed reform. It is also stressed that in order to exercise the rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as other human rights documents, it is particularly important to build an effective system of rights of socially endangered citizens to free legal assistance. In this regard, the strategy provides for the adoption by the end of 2005 of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which has not been done so far, and this is 2006. Given the difficult social situation of a large number of citizens, it has been pointed out that the law should be passed as soon as possible because it is one of the essential conditions in order to ensure the equality of all before the law in practice. Finally, the opinion is also expressed that the development strategy for the information and communication system of the judiciary should allow all citizens, especially with internet use, insight into complete court cases, i.e. in all files in court cases except those declared secret. It has been said that this is necessary only to exercise citizens' right to information but also to prevent irregularities in court proceedings. Finally, it was also pointed out that measures should continue to be taken to ensure that the Constitutional Constitution ensures guaranteed independence, as this is one of the fundamental preconditions for the smooth and effective functioning of the judicial system. However, it has been pointed out that at the same time it must be taken into account that mechanisms are being developed to ensure the responsibility of judicial authorities for legal action, since no authority can be held responsible for itself. To that end, the full public of the work of the courts and the insight into all stages of the work of the judicial authority must be ensured from the appointment of judges to the insight into the work of each individual and body in the judicial authority system. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: "It takes note", because it is in the title of being sent to representatives for information, means "it takes note of the strategy of reforming the judicial system with the plan of action, and all comments and proposals are presented in the debate to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take them into account further discussion and operationalisation of the strategy." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55098	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, respected representative Josip Sudec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55099	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Party of Retired Representatives Club discussed the development strategy at its session and estimated that it was a very good basis to implement everything we were not satisfied with so far in health care, since, in the judiciary, we were not satisfied. I congratulate the minister for plowing such a deep furrow. I want her to take it all the way and because the other day I saw a poll asking who in the Republic of Croatia is the most trusted? 58% of respondents, however, opted for the judiciary. The council is getting weaker. The government is weaker and so on. It is therefore an area with which the largest number of respondents trust. So it's worth the effort. It's worth this strategy to implement. However, it is certain that the strategy is already being implemented. In practice, it's been two years since we've been following and I guess it's started before, and I think today we can be pleased to propose one new type of personnel, another information system, one new Croatian judiciary that should work more rationally, faster, more quality. At least we hope so. This will fully restore citizens' confidence in the judiciary as an independent, fair, unsuspected and highly respected. If not individually then at least as an institution organization. The Law on Courts passed a whole series of newspapers and, in our opinion, gave the foundation to this judicial reform and marked the end of continued litigation. The principle of individual responsibility of judges has been introduced, and the court proceedings must be completed no later than three years. In order to achieve this urgently, it is also necessary to adopt amendments to the Law on a litigation procedure, the litigation law now makes it impossible to do what it would like because it should limit complaints that the proceedings do not return from a lower court and from a higher back down so that you have in practice playing ping pong. Disputes last for decades, and there are eclectic examples where in the same case, a certain verdict is suspended 10 times and a retrial is returned. This should strengthen the responsibility of the High Court, and the High Court should reach a verdict already, perhaps after the second appeal, and finally. In Croatia, about 2 million cases are brought to court annually, and with a million lags, it accounts for 3 million per 4 and a half million inhabitants. That means we're two-thirds in a court dispute. But do we like to sue like that, or is it a different matter in some cases? If we look at the structure of the object, then 60% of these objects are of little value, insignificant. For example, the execution of a television subscription and then violations of the lack of a tram ticket, and for those 50 kuna, court costs that exceed 1000 kuna are incurred. If it's not charged, it's safe to load someone else but the state budget. There are over 500 thousand land-book items. If it succeeds in a reasonable measure, then surely the effort, the value of both the money and the effort proposed by this reform, should certainly be supported. The executives should go much faster, and the land-booked departments are reformed. Infringements should be passed on to police and communal directors and other competent services, but should also leave the possibility of judicial protection. Driving without a ticket on a tram or train should no longer be a matter of judicial, judicial dispute. In Croatia, we have the largest number of judges compared to the number of people, but the number of cases above all countries in Europe is far more to be done by judges. Unfortunately, in Zagreb, one judge has more cases than the entire court in another city. It's just a tough job coming up. It is necessary to coordinate and balance criminal policy. It's one of the priorities. The court code should be passed because according to the Court Act, we made a commitment to do so. The continued education of judges, new organisations, information and other measures should promise the success of this strategy. Therefore, our support will not fail, and we want a lot of success in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55100	Thank you. For the club HSLS DC, LS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić Mr. Zlatko Kramarić is registered for this club. ... [[There it is, there it is.]] You'll be then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. ... There's no exception. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55101	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Madam Assistant Minister, first of all, let me say that I really answered. The agreement, however, did not withdraw this application. The DC club of HSLS and LS comes from the fact that this document that we have here is actually a very high-quality sum, a set of measures that should lead us to the ultimate goal. It comes from the fact that all these measures and this whole strategy are based on the legal regulations that have been discussed and adopted here in this Croatian Assembly. Very good and very exhaustive and transparent are the days of all the main areas of the judicial system with an assessment of the situation and with solutions. The deadlines and holders for the implementation of the proposed measures are also indicated. It would be good if we had this kind of precision and this kind of responsibility with other ministries when we get these kind of documents. This strategy is actually very important because it breaks the legacy of ideological, former socialistic trials, courts and trials clearly which remained in this society, could not suddenly be eliminated when the social system disappeared. Furthermore, it breaks all those solutions temporarily passed quickly during the creation of the Croatian state. In addition, all those personnel who, after one shortage of personnel, were employed by judicial authorities, who were able to cope in different ways, relatively successfully, and in some ways made them need to be educated, perfected, and that this one process of education was not finished with obtaining a degree because it works with people. Because the whole social course, the social process is in a continuous transformation, and one that has its important function in this transformation should be continuously educated. Furthermore, a public mistrust is being broken. In part, this mistrust is inherited, and on the other hand we also have part of this mistrust that has been produced in our practice so far. And finally, this is one strategy for adapting the Croatian judicial system to the European, European Union system, the European Union's judicial system. And the most perfect strategy unless it has quality support it can't produce results, or it's just an attempt. We would like this one strategy to be implemented, to get the full support we need to be realized. To implement this strategy, first of all, one true political will that I see so far exists in this, among the public, among Croatian citizens, among all those who are aware of the need for Croatia to reform its judicial system. Furthermore, professional and educational staff are needed. It also takes public support, because if that public is not a kind of quality transport, I'm afraid that maybe some measures will, that some measures won't give me results. Finally, we need the support of this Croatian Parliament. When all the measures are carefully read, then we actually see that at the very beginning of this strategy, what really matters is put first. The main postulate of this strategy is a fair and secure society. With this debate and the adoption of this strategy in Parliament that moment, if we adopt it, we, in fact, swear before God and before people that we want a fair and secure society in Croatia. And now after this postulate we actually have an entire system of measures that should lead to this proper and secure society. So, by strengthening the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary, it means that one of the postulates is the trio of government and now a whole list of measures to be implemented. Furthermore, we can reach a fundamental goal with an effective judicial system, and there is a whole series of measures that should lead to this judicial system. The paper is to introduce judicial management. In fact, we have one transformation of the judicial administration so far into judicial management, which is one quality that goes hand in hand with solutions in the judicial system of the countries of the European Union. Another newspaper is also proposed here, which should allow for the final goal, which is that the case-law is in some way introduced into the judicial system in Croatia so that it cannot happen, that for one thing and the same thing we have different case-laws. In order for all members of society to have equal opportunity in an impartial court, to be equal in front of the law that the Constitution says in its Article 14 is being introduced here as one obligation, as one measure very important free legal aid. Another solution is alternative dispute resolution in order to speed up the solution in some long-term trials, the possibility opens up that another procedure can be chosen in a court case to resolve the dispute that ultimately our practice shows we have often small litigation of small values, and in fact there are major impacts, negative effects, to disrupt human relations where a man is actually at odds with his entire environment. So this alternative solution opens up the possibility of creating a tolerated environment, preserving good human relations between parties in the dispute. It should also be commended for this solution, which is that in fact this ministry and the current minister has actually made it clear that judicial officials, that judicial officials, advisers and all other categories are no longer sacred cows, that they are not actually untouchable, that they also have to be continuously educated because simply the current system in which they operate requires continuous education. Moreover, it is very important to point out that if we want to be efficient, if we want to really society to be fair and secure, society that we need to get better, and above all, the judicial officials, that they can identify various metamorphosis, transformation, corruption, crime that clearly crosses borders, which are looking for different forms to actually survive. In this one escape before the law, the courts clearly need to look for the forms of their metamorphosis, in order not to be recognizable at all times. Such a form of training is needed by judicial officials, which is said in this strategy. I would also like to commend regional co-operation which is also one of the measures that we can create both stability and security in our society. And finally, a measure that is also important, it is the opening of Croatian courts to the Croatian public. First of all, according to the community of local users. So these are all actually measures that we hold out for if they have quality support that they will give their results. And actually this strategy, it's our strategy, it's of all the members of this society, it's all political parties. If anyone has any objections, if there is a shortage of any of these measures, we are clearly invited to make better proposals for these measures to come to, ultimately, success. And to the very end, it is clear to mention the potential danger, revenge when it comes to reorganising the network of courts that then there will be demands always to leave the court in my local community. I suppose the minister will not allow the basic concept to be broken, but in any case, it should be kept in mind that in some ways, the courts are equally, under one equal burden, available to every Croatian citizen. And where specificities such as islands are, clearly it should be taken into account. The DC Club, HSLS will give its support to this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55102	Thank you. For the SDP club, Honored Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55103	Mr. President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. All of us are aimed at obtaining the justice system as an independent, well-organised and functional, cheap, accessible to citizens and legal persons who will be modern, independent and effective and who will ensure the trial based on the Constitution, the law, the evidence presented. This reform strategy of the judicial system is one of the documents that has actually been repeated over and over the last few years, and we do not seem to get the final text of the strategy that will set out the objectives, means, of course, the programme, that is, the reform policy and the measures itself to implement the reform. Perhaps this document in its analysis shows the most qualitative part of the analysis or synthesis of everything that has been done so far, but still, it could be difficult to say that it is a strategy that could respond to all aspects. The necessary reforms of the judicial system, from its functional principle, organisational vertical, horizontal through territorial, to implementation in the ultimate line of constitutional law... with these questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us remind, however, that we in the Constitution have clearly established, in that the power of judgment is independent and independent. We have also determined that the courts in the exercise of their authority are of course responsible, and in particular we have even found that if they violate the law in their work by judges who are a criminal offence that there is criminal responsibility. They would also remind you that we have brought together state-level activities and with the protection of state property, and also that we have opened a specific issue that led to the resolution of a whole series of problems that we had at the level of the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg, which is the question that the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court found that judgments before the Constitutional Court should normally be passed within a year, and Article 63 of that same Constitutional Court Act found that, when certain cases cannot be settled in a regular procedure, damage or by law or by certain matters can be addressed by the appeal to the Constitutional Court. After that, a practice followed by which all disputes should normally be resolved within 3 years. Well, that's from the aspect of efficiency. But let me ask you a question of this strategy from the aspect of these fundamental principles that I've said a few things about. The questions remain open. On the one hand, how to reduce and rationalise a large number of courts by territorial principle, while at the same time satisfying the functional and organisational system. On the one hand, at a horizontal level, it is offered to merge misdemeanor courts, i.e. with the operation of municipal courts, where even minors would be left in the sphere of administrative action, and that at the same time we did not distinguish the question of what subjects, to what value and what in such segments we get. The second part, which is extremely important and is related, for example, to the functional and vertical principle, where a large number of cases that are the result of actual administrative disputes arise, we have a situation that we have the Administrative Court which is not a court full of jurisdiction and that practically happens that it appears in a function of more control of the legality of the work of administrative bodies which essentially the same cases, the same disputes are constantly returning to a retrial. The question is raised in the rationalization of the judiciary how to connect both this vertical and this horizontal, but also the functional principle and ensure that it is actually as soon as possible and... An effective, i.e. to ensure that citizens and legal persons are protected as quickly and as best as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that it is time to seriously consider this strategy whether it is necessary to form an administrative court as a court of two degrees. Of course, it should not immediately be debated whether there should now be 21 administrative courts as we have 21 county courts. That's certainly unnecessary. It should be considered to concentrate on several counties, but this should introduce in the second degree the full jurisdiction of the administrative court and resolve matters definitely. It's a similar thing with county courts. Unfortunately, county courts are increasingly and more used the right to actually return the trial to the first degree rather than to resolve in full jurisdiction in the appeal procedure, especially when the issue of connecting the municipal and criminal courts is looked at horizontally. We ask an open question and what about situations where county courts appeared in the first degree in certain criminal acts or cases of higher value and in fact how to resolve it. Because at the same time there's something going on that's also going on, and there's even a negative consequence... one indicator of the number of cases that actually the same case appears before different courts in different forms because... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] re-record. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should certainly be resolved and determined in this context what to do and in what direction to take measures to avoid such things. Of course, it's a matter of specialized courts. We of the SDP are not so much for specialised courts, except perhaps in the power of the tax system of financial infringements and customs proceedings. Because it doesn't make any sense that, in addition to all the proceedings being conducted there, it ends up in administrative court after all. It may be necessary to open a debate on the establishment of a specialised financial court, a court for financial offences, crimes and criminal offences and thus to relieve the court on a regular basis in the light of the number of cases, given the specificities of these cases, and all other cases we agree that a debate on specialised departments should be discussed in the context of the ordinary judiciary in the first phase. But we're interested in some more things from this organisational aspect. You know, when you look at the number of misdemeanor courts, then it's very interesting that this is the largest number compared to the municipalities that have 105 or 107, as the Minister in the opening statement has now said, and then the number of commercial courts on the one hand and on the other hand, when it is actually looking at the Court's relationship with the Court of First and Second Instance in the third level of conduct, it's obvious that there is actually one major rebalancing from organisational over jurisdiction in relation to individual cases to quality if you want and training, the education of judges in that segment. We must be pleased that we have established and reached a judicial academy, but it would be far more important now to ask the question of how to train judges to act and to deal with cases quickly and efficiently in the first degree because we have actually a chamber which, in relation to the average number of years that work as judges has just exceeded six and a half years and in such a situation it is quite clear that the experience that these people, young people, have, simply not, gives such a guarantee that they can be as effective as judges in county courts, i.e. the Supreme Court, and in particular here, it is necessary to resolve the specific question that we, in the time that preceded today's phase of this debate, have had one quiet little illustration that a large number of judges and presidents of their own in time removed from the judicial system on the one hand, and on the other, those same places were filled with new, young people who were probably by moral properties, but in a professional way, which were not quite up to all these other segments. That you have a relatively willing and capable young man who wants to work, but has not had enough experience, and on the other hand, as an attorney or a defendant, you have lawyers who were top judges until yesterday, so there was no surprise that it was known to happen in practice that, of course, such a situation would occur where a lawyer warns or suggests that a particular procedural dispute, a procedural phase in the proceedings before the dispute and in the dispute is resolved. This is a very serious thing, and in such a situation, it should certainly make sense now and ask a very clear question about education and training. The second question that should be settled is the question of the overall material position and the award of judges. Here we mean not only the salaries and revenues that are related to that part but also the status of judges and not only judges, but also the state's attorney's office, employees, etc. So in a broader sense in the judicial system than public control, you know. We don't accept the general assessment that the judiciary isn't right because they're bad judges, etc. We believe that there are a large number of judges in the judicial system, a large number of state lawyers who are doing excellent work and who are doing everything, how much effort they are trying to do as well as those who, of course, have something in this respect not because of their willing qualities but because of their real qualities, are not able to meet the conditions, and there are those who may be subject to different challenges and in this segment, we believe that this strategy in the worse part does not satisfy so. public control of the judicial system, i.e. control that will appear through the media, through citizens and through all others. And the second segment, regardless of the measures proposed, they are not sufficiently elaborated in the law, and if they were elaborated in the law, they are not actually implemented, and that is the question of the ability of judges to carry out their duties. I think that's the key question. So it's not about bad people, immoral people, but it's about whether someone is capable and whether education is capable of being able, educated and prepared to do this job or not, so it should be suggested to him to carry out some other activity, and because of the individual number of individual cases, if he does not naturally cross the one-armed majority, he should not be generalised with assessments in relation to the judiciary because it also detimises the judiciary, or judicial employees in the performance of their duties. Of course, here the question that we would particularly like to point out is the question of a project that is related to violations and to municipal courts is actually being implemented within the framework of the CARDS model. You know it's good to accept the CARDS model, the International Community, etc. All of this is well agreed, but we still have to ask the question of resolving, in fact, what kind of offence should be maintained in a misdemeanor procedure before criminal courts and which should be left to resolve administrative proceedings on the one hand and on the other hand, which cases are now in the jurisdiction of the ordinary court, the municipal court should be released or left to the courts of misdemeanors. I don't think it's just a legal question right now, it's not only legislatively practical, but if you want a theoretical question, given the current law on violations, the law on regular courts. I think that in such a segment, if you look at it, you will see that both our theory and our case-law have not been agreed on in this respect and have not reached agreement and therefore this strategy among other things in this segment is lacking, and at the same time we are implementing a project that does not actually come down to anything but rather one form of an experience method in which a model exists in other countries is applied to our system, while at the same time legislative and other assumptions for this segment are not provided. The third question that we consider very important is the question not only of legislative activity but also of law enforcement. It is also unacceptable today to assess on behalf of the Committee on the Protection of Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities the President of the Committee, that in fact the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the laws governing this area such as the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities is not implemented in a segment where this function should guarantee the protection of the rights of all citizens, therefore to the judicial system. We believe that measures must be taken, it cannot be said that they are not being implemented because the other thing is that they are being implemented and that there are problems in the process etc. We could tolerate this, but we cannot tolerate the assessment that it is not being carried out, as we must also say that the very interesting situation that has been presented on page 22 where in civil cases, 62% of the cases are being resolved by procedures lasting up to one year, 38% of the cases being solved in percentages lasting longer than one year and now suddenly a startling fact, that in fact, the more you go to criminal proceedings, the criminal proceedings are being dealt with more effectively and the property-legislative ones are being made more difficult, which points to another fact that it is not only a matter of material and legal nature in the dispute and apply material law rather than the obvious that and procedural right to actually enable the entire set of measures to be put into effect in order to delay the dispute and in this respect, regardless of the perfection of our law in the case before the courts should be considered possible and the changes of this part of the law and the matter of its processing. Unfortunately, because of the shortness of time, especially the chapter that we wanted to say about, it's the state's attorney's office. And this is not only the one who deals with criminal persecution but also the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia we will not arrive, but we would like to highlight it in just one sentence. The fact is that it must open up the possibility for the state's attorney's office to actually create a possibility of closer cooperation with investigative authorities that supply evidence and conduct investigative actions, so that as high quality and faster as possible, they can actually take action to establish a function of prosecution and prosecution before courts. Otherwise, they often stay in the airspace and wait for the previous authorities to carry out their work in previous investigative procedures and depend on that activity, which is not good and this law needs to be resolved through reform of the criminal system in a broader sense. So, not only in criminal law...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55105	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55106	For the HDZ Club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55107	Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, assistant minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the justice system reform strategy. Recognising it as a fundamental document, as a foothold for the planned implementation of judicial reform, as one of the main priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia during this term of office, which has already moved away as a process and in certain segments is getting very good results. The reform of the judiciary itself is not, however, a process of course completed, and the adoption of this strategy with a concrete action plan creates a framework to complete it in the way it is imagined, ultimately with the result of improving the justice system and the judiciary as a whole. In terms of reaching the standards of the judicial system not only of the European Community but also of the degree of social and civilizational awareness of modern democracies. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports such a well-conceived strategy of judicial system reform, supports a document in which both the basics and principles, values, objectives and purposes, as well as the basic settings of judicial reform, which in its core, rely on 3 essential elements. The first is to strengthen the rule of law. The second is independence, independence of the judiciary. And the third is the creation of an effective judicial system. Indeed, without these 3 elements, there is no right way to reform the justice system in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the rule of law as a general principle of real regulation of relations in the Republic of Croatia, but also as the highest value of the constitutional order and constitutional system of the Republic of Croatia based on the fact that all holders of the functions of government, all citizens must obey the laws, not people. The strict adherence of the Constitution and of the laws of all state bodies, of all political holders and of all citizens always expressed through the concept of normative requirements which discuss the idea of constitutional rule, in a way that prohibits any arbitration where only laws, or powers obtained under the law, can be intervened in relation to people. Furthermore, the judicial authority as independent and independent, and the courts of course judge only on the basis of the constitution and the law. Therefore, the independence of the courts and their status must be ensured by law, so that the judge is in every sense independent of the influence of the other two authorities. It must indeed be freed in terms of making its decisions from everyone, but also from social, therefore, economic, political pressure, but not least of the influences that would come from the justice system itself. On the other hand, the independence of the judiciary in terms of the strategy itself should always be seen, and this is based on this strategy and is done through two components. The first is that judges make their decisions exclusively under the law, while all other entities are obliged to respect, protect and defend such independence. And the second is, the judges themselves in acting must protect individual rights as well as the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time. Accordingly, within the framework of this strategy, judicial reform is not and must not be a purpose to itself. In its fullness, it must allow each party, each person the right to a fair trial, to be tried within a reasonable period of time and in which sense the need for equalisation and quality of judicial practice should be highlighted. In the same or similar factual situation, the uniform resolution of court cases contributes not only to legal certainty but also to the equality of all citizens before the law. In order to be able to transfer all the above or all of the above from the principle level to concrete relations in society, the strategy itself stresses as the necessary need to develop and create an effective judicial system. In what sense should the following elements or concrete measures be highlighted. First, therefore, a reorganisation or a pair of rationalizations of the judicial and state's attorney's network. Second, a necessary reduction of the backlogs of pending cases, which I particularly emphasise, i.e. an update of the court's work without accumulation of pending court cases. Furthermore, the discharging of courts is understood as eliminating all cases from the jurisdiction of the court which by nature things are not judicial business. Or an object that is essentially not a court case. Furthermore, affirmation of the principle of alternative way of resolving disputes falling within the jurisdiction of the court. Then, shortening the length of court proceedings to a reasonable extent, without prejudice to either individual's right or the right to a fair trial. Also equalising, and thus strengthening the role of judicial practice as well as normative development of the introduction of free legal assistance understood as part of the regular system of protection of party rights. All of these measures and all of this that is stated absolutely has its foothold in the presented strategy. The above opinion is that, as part of the principled debate of the strategy itself, the reform of the Croatian judiciary should, therefore, only be made a definitive decision and the role of the infringement courts where there are a whole series of proposed solutions, as well as the development of the role of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, which has already been discussed in terms of the strategy itself, and the problem of the functioning of the infringement courts on the one hand, but also the positions of the Administrative Court in the Republic of Croatia. The unequivocal profession should also play a crucial role here with the basic objective of rationalising court proceedings before these courts and harmonising material and procedural provisions with legal standards, as well as declarations, resolutions and recommendations of the Council of Europe, which relate to the exercise of citizens' rights to access to court. Furthermore, reducing the backlogs of unsolved cases and in this respect normal court work is a key problem and in fact its resolution will indeed be the best indicator of efficiency and the strategy itself and the reform of the judiciary. In this context, all solutions that go towards reducing the backlogs should be supported by cutting deadlines for the implementation of court proceedings and, in that context, I would stress the following. Like some of the measures in the direction of solving this problem. The excessive work of judges as a possibility in a certain sense and also on the Committee on Justice regarding the excessive work of judges was both critical tones and in this sense as measures which would not give the expected results, but should not be disrupted by that possibility, but neither the possibility of a clear and objective check of the criteria nor the setting of criteria for the evaluation of the work of judges. Furthermore, encouraging the work on old cases or cases which have been in the courts for many years, then introducing the award of judges, informing the work in the court, should certainly be noted as one of the important things in this regard to resolving the problem of sending judges, but with their consent from courts that have no delays to over-loaded courts, then delegating cases from less-loaded courts, then using the work of judicial advisers and court practitioners, then continuing training of the training of judges and, in a more exposed sense, we have already had the opportunity to hear the development of the system of more well-known or we all already say that, we accept that term of the judicial academy, which means nothing more than the training of courts, means the acquisition of new skills, in order for them to do more quality work, and thus the whole system of justice or how to be effective and to make decisions. It should indeed be pointed out here that the confidence of citizens in the Croatian judiciary as well as the public notion of justice will change only when judicial proceedings in their total are shorter and when the demands of the parties in the court are resolved quickly and, of course, legally. As a contribution to the strategy in question, a concrete action plan has also been drawn up with the time limits set for the implementation of the envisaged measures, and responsible implementation entities have been defined and the costs for implementing the project itself or the programme of measures are also provided for. As well as the Strategy itself and the Action Plan should absolutely be supported with a principle note that normative preconditions have already been created to be the same in their specificities and implementation. Of course, I do not only mean the Constitution or the Constitutional Provisions and the Law on Courts, but also, in this sense, the Law on State Attorneyship and the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers and all other regulations that have been adopted, which have indeed created a quality regulatory framework so that these concrete measures can be brought to life, so that they can be implemented in the act. In addition, the roles of this normative framework already adopted with the strategy in question, with the measures set out in the strategy itself, and with total dare I would say to all of these processes that we have seen in the system of our judiciary lately as the positive movements of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this strategy, supports the proposed measures and, of course, everything positive that is already going on in our judicial system by supporting this Strategy are, in fact, being based on the fact that this process of judicial reform is being brought in the best possible way to bring it to an end in order to get as effective as possible our common judiciary in terms of and the satisfaction of all those, therefore all citizens in the Republic of Croatia who are forced to seek protection from the Court. Finally, support for the Strategy itself, support for the Strategy as a basic document through which concrete laws and concrete measures will, for sure, continue to reform the judicial system in this positive direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55108	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55109	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So what should be basic in order to even talk about some reforms is to see that our courts, and I'm not saying it on my behalf, but on behalf of a series of judges who called me, should finally start, or settle their obligations and pay their bills. If it were a case of companies, not courts, then they would tell me that these companies are insolvent. that they need to be opened up to bankruptcy. And why am I saying that? Because there's no court that's doing orderly business with its suppliers today with regard to this consumable. So courts neither pay for months of paper, repairs of various copy machines, phones, etc., means ambitions to move into reforms are legitimate, but I mention it on behalf of judges who call me and beg for this problem to be pointed out because the problem degrades the position of the Croatian judiciary and makes those people on the other hand unworthy. On the other hand, it should be acknowledged to the minister that a small revolution has been made in the junta in the last two years, and that should be absolutely commended, because although it is not a classical court case, it is an extremely significant business, because without a land-marked excerpt, it is not possible for a citizen to turn to the bank for credit, because he needs this excerpt for the mortgage, or for example. you can contact the Construction Office regarding the location, construction or any other permits. In Istria, for example, we didn't know this problem, but it's known that in Zagreb it's been waiting for a book for a year and a half, and then the procedure for the opening of a company has been expanded or often has been known to extend in a year, so people would lose their nerves, so they would simply say that in such a country or a country we don't want to treat. This is so important because life because of the court or because of this situation in these land-booking services simply must not stop and what has been done or what will be done by the end of this year can almost be called revolutionary for our opportunities. What intrigued me most was not so much now the merger of municipal and criminal courts, it could certainly be okay, but the merger of municipal courts, more specifically theirs as it states a significant reduction as well as the merger of county courts and their reduction allegedly from 21 to 10. If this happens now, it is necessary to change the role of these municipal and county courts clearly, as suggested by this material where the county authorities would be called upon, the municipal authorities would take over the role of the county, under quotes, to which county judges would be added and would even take over the trial in almost all criminal proceedings. I think that's pretty bold. That takes time. It can hardly be resolved in one term. It is likely that such a reform should last on a two-term basis and should have, I dare say, the head of the ministry then the same person. Only the Parliament could possibly spend a whole year devoting itself to all these major changes to our laws so that these new courts can somehow function. I have no doubt that the Finnish model that is now being suggested is effective, but now I'm a little surprised that our role models of the Austrians, the Germans are being bypassed, and that we've found new sponsors in the Finnishs. It's another matter of prestige, I don't know what to call it, maybe even a local patriotism. Connecting municipal courts is certainly a brave procedure. But now, imagine if someone were to suggest that some of the 569 units of local self-government be abolished as many of them in Croatia and where to go now, let's say, to shut down a county court. In these two years until the elections it is clear that it is not possible, for example, for two years to go to the elections, for example, to reform the health care system or pension system because logically any incurring in any right or I will call it even the habit of destroying the electoral reiting of the one who would get into it. The network of our courts has lived for forty, fifty years, and I believe it's not illogical. It's very logical, though. It is de facto based or its foundation is extracted from the former congregations of the municipalities. Putting the criminal courts together, come on, that's fine, let's go change. Change powers too. But to go into one radical change of the network of courts unless something formally changes to make everything else then the rest is also really one brave, I dare say, political business. But only then would it go so far as to make changes so that everything remains the same we wouldn't need that reform. Clearly, it doesn't mean that some judicial body isn't possible I don't know how to form like a trade court in Pazin. It's a big deal for Istria. Our economy as one of the most dynamic in Croatia. The minister herself said that already at the beginning that court would have more cases than the one in Zadar, Sibenik, I don't know if she mentioned the lady. So more than three of them together. However, consider whether you should now go to the abolition of a county court. It is interesting that material about alternative dispute resolution, meaning the Law on Arbitration of 2001, the Law on Peace of 2003, and in the context of arbitration institutions, more precisely the permanent elected judiciary, above all the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which I mention is a higher case of Liburnia and the way in which it was tried by all in my court only independently, clearly in a way that the state loses its dispute and funds. holdins to acquire probably one of the most attractive hotel houses on the Adriatic, but on the whole of the Mediterranean if we keep in mind the history of Lebanon, Opatija, that part of Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County anyway. In an analysis of this existing situation on the 51st page, it is said that it is precisely for cooperation with international criminal courts in connection with the affairs of the Government of Croatia's cooperation with this International Court of Justice, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the International Criminal Court, other existing and future international criminal courts and monitors, coordinate and directs the tasks of the national authorities responsible for co-operation with international criminal courts, etc., a finished quote. I personally believe that this administration is primarily important for the purposes of qualifications under these indictments and that so many of the countries of Croatia should form their defence team of generals, do not pay private defences i.e. to pay the funds into some foundations, the more the figures of $20 and more million are already being mentioned in advance. If someone wants to pay into those trusts absolutely, why not. But I'm sure the state doesn't need to get involved in that. And perhaps some individuals themselves can disburse the state budget because it is almost incredible that without the state budget they will gain everything they have acquired. One thing's for sure. This strategy is a brave act but it, as I said, is inconclusive in one term. As I said, surely by the end of the term of office of this government in such radical changes to the network of courts it is hard to go. After making the most powerful people in Croatia out of the public notebooks, I dare say, we have decided to improve their material position a little more clearly, although many say that all of these can be done by our courts. They've all done it at no cost, I dare say without any loss in the time of the judicial staff. Now these little ones will be run by public notebooks and we are going to amend the executive law in a way that will sell even seized assets in future private societies. It seems that our judiciary will either not be able to avoid two other jobs extremely important now for denationalisation where the President of the Republic of Stipe Mesic is today in government positions even though he was in other positions two months ago, and I mention it first of all in the context of 5 thousand 236 people who had received so-called so-called by 1974. release from Yugoslav citizenship. They're 1,500 to 2000 with property. It's mostly in Istria, and I'm afraid it's simply under quotes to destroy the functioning of local self-government. The second question is the succession of property. We see what's going on around selling some resorts and so on, and we also need those moments as soon as possible to resolve it. Understandable citizens are today most interested in the speed of the trial, for the independence of judges, which is also sometimes questionable in Croatia absolutely as anywhere in the world, the price of a court procedure that today is such that they can no longer be followed by well-sighted people, so it is almost amazing in this country that there is no health care, and, health care, and as Mr. Judge said somewhere around 2 or more million people each year are running certain litigation procedures. Clearly impartiality is number one. Croatia means to the judges that the Croatian power or government has given the judges an exceptional position in society, work up to 70 years old, immutability, one judge always judges, but keeping in mind the opportunities that prevailed and sometimes the party crosses where and how judges are elected from the Constitutional Court to the State Judicial Council, according to the principle "I will support you my support" and so on. It also says that individuals in political life still have a strong influence on our judiciary. I think it's illusory to waste words. All of these reforms initiated by the government certainly cannot be stopped. The reforms before the elections are clearly not going to go, at least not radical, but this approach I said he's brave, original. I'm talking about reducing courts, eliminating some county courts and making sure that this not too successful system like our judicial system doesn't do on the other hand bear services because I doubt it will go without resistance either in this House, whether in the local community or within that judicial system. Finally, I would like to know now in advance which county courts should be abolished in the Republic of Croatia? Is that wise, about that come on another occasion, but that's brave but it should be hailed at least in any case and it's an extraordinary job done by these changes that took place in the ZK services at our municipal courts. To end whether there is a bribe, corruption in our judiciary will not say it, but for example it is not possible to claim just to register 65 hectares of so-called. tourism land in Novigrad on some private person or legal person who owns this or that, 200 hectares in Rovinj and so on and so on and so on and so on suggests that capital has a significant impact on our courts and that without that influence I am deeply convinced, there is no one who will convince me of such things could not happen. It is certainly one thing for bad public administration to harm not only the nerves, especially when it comes to courts but also to living standards or economic growth. I've read one study now, it's almost amazing if we'd just raised my perception of trust in the fate of a government like the government in Spain, not Denmark, Norway, Sweden, so that the gross social product would grow automatically in a year, two by almost 15%. If we raise the perception of a government according to public confidence in one Portugal, not in Switzerland or Austria, the gross product may increase by 7%. It is, now, whether it stands, whether it is a smiley claim in the latter, in another case, but there are also public assessments. All in all, we're going to use tomorrow for five minutes because now the game, the courts, in courts as an institution, has to be a lot of trust. Is this trust, whether it should be asked by the government to ask the citizens, but should be given the term of office here to the Minister to continue with these reforms and to take care of the material position of the persons directly subject to it or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55110	Thank you. In 16 and 52, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. There are 18 MPs and representatives reported except for clubs. It is the SDSS's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Vojislav Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55111	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The club of an independent democratic Serb party took note and welcomed the government's strategy for reforming the judicial system. It correctly notes a number of current judicial weaknesses in Croatia that this strategy needs to correct and remove. However, we would like to warn of some controversial moments, which were partly pointed out by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. 1. We think it is important to stress that one of the foundations of the reform of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia is the rationalisation and reorganisation of the court apparatus that we see here predicts the merger of some municipal and criminal courts and some of the abolition. It is commendable if these reductions will mean faster and better access to law, more effective trial and material rationalisation. But we are afraid that it might also mean a significant reduction of rights. According to the reports of domestic and international organisations and our insights, the population in areas of special state concern, returnees and immigrants now have a significant difficulty in accessing courts. The courts are away from the place of residence, and there is no accessible and orderly public transport. In a certain sense, local communities, thoughts are meant to mean that municipal courts are thus losing some elements of functionality. It is necessary to ensure that the rationalisation criteria are purely professional and not political. Unfortunately, there have been such interventions so far, and there are now such indications. For example, the choice of judges in Vojnic, and now it is possible to abolish the court in Vojnic. The rationalisation needs to take into account differences in the development and density of population that vary greatly in certain parts of Croatia. In particular, islands and areas of special state concern could be endangered, which is important in this strategy to take into account. Under two, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities determines, in its Article 22, that national minorities participate in judicial bodies depending on their numbers. Unfortunately, this provision is now not being fulfilled. According to the 2001 census, for example The Serbs are 4 and a half percent in the Republic of Croatia. According to the Ministry of Justice for the end of 2004, the Serbs are almost double the number of judges, only 2 and a half percent. This lack is drastic in trade courts and in the administrative court. There are practically no members of our national minority at all. Among the state's attorneys, there are only 2.4% of our national minority members. Some examples make it clear that discrimination is involved. I will mention only one notorious case, the one related to Ninko Miric of Vojnić, where there was a regular competition on two occasions, where both times he refused even though he met all the conditions of the competition so that later some judges who did not meet all the criteria envisaged. We believe that this strategy must be complemented by clear measures, leading to an improvement in the situation by political, administrative, legislative and other measures. Therefore, up to the adequate representation of minority members. Under three, the strategy unfortunately does not address the issue of the use of minority languages and letters in proceedings before judicial authorities at all. Minorities under the constitutional law and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters which have the right to do so but which are practically nowhere. We propose that the strategy be complemented by a proposal for measures that address this issue. Under four, we welcome the mention in the strategy of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, but we resent the delay in adopting it as foreseen for the end of last year. So there's a good one of the bill's proposals, and we think we should go to its adoption as soon as possible. The strategy is unfortunately quite undefined around users of the right to free legal aid. It is also undefined about the budget for free legal aid, around implementing mechanisms and should certainly be corrected. Planning, and this is actually a strategy that makes no sense without defining budgets and implementing mechanisms. In favour of the discussion of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities, this opinion of our club is also going towards improving this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55112	Thank you. Now the HNS club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55113	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This strategy, of course, is an act, an act and a job long awaited. It's not the first version, it's been those versions before. However, this one stands out with one great and attractive combination of top-quality expertise, the comprehensiveness of the subject and a good choice of words, the demagogue good choice of words, attractive goals that are so high up that they bring a little doubt to the point. The expertise is particularly reflected in the section on the structure of the judiciary, the need to change and the structure, as well as the section on the information of the judiciary, the reasons why this information is necessary. Of course, there is no need to doubt, but also to talk about the technique of how to carry out the information, how to connect these systems that are finally the goal of all of this. However, the promoters are, and when a man reads all these three and four documents in a little more detail, the promoters certainly saw the project of the new and faster judiciary of the Croatian People's Party, which was launched a few years ago, because many good solutions were found here as well. Which, of course, is not a sin. You don't need to make hot water up. If solutions are good, so you should take them from where good solutions appear. The targets are top-notch. Fair and safe society, there's no better. Independent judges and state lawyers can't be more honest. An effective system in the service of the public can't be better either. The ways in which these objectives are implemented are to strengthen the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary as the first of these ways. The text of this wish projection, these strategies almost completely excludes the influence of politics and the judiciary. And he says that influence is now reduced to a minimum, and if we do this and when we do that, there won't be. Which is acceptable, he's accomplished as well as possible. However, in this system, as in any other system, it is about living people. So while one judge makes decisions, penalties, which he argues so that the defendant and his ancestors persecute the Croats for 500 years, and while he remains in the system, so long as these good wishes and good concepts, a good goal cannot be credible. While against one HDZ leader, the former secretary-in-chief was charged with criminal charges for two years and something like that in the drawer, and was rejected within 48 hours after he was appointed Minister of Economy, and police officers who conducted the investigation are demoted to this point of good desire, good goals and excellent intensities cannot be entirely credible. For example, the state attorney, for example, thinks of the innocence of former Minister Zuzula, gives within 48 hours, so, well, I may have used the wrong term, probably not that, is, in fact, the non-belief, giving within 48 hours, until other similar cases are delayed, delayed, passed through various committees, through various committees, to be removed from hats every time it is necessary. I mean, these high-ranking targets also require cuts between living people and cuts on their side. Not just cuts in some abstract system, in some kind of system that we're going to formulate anyway, it's not about clay, it's about people. On page 10, the goals are once again listed, namely independence, independence, impartiality, status and efficiency. They're really goals, and that's the way to look at them. It is perfectly clear that this strategy, as it is, cannot be implemented within two years of the mandate of this government, that it will go deep into the mandate of the next Government and to commend the Minister, I do not believe that any government that comes to power will be able to reject such a strategy. This strategy is good, and it should really be done. That's, of course, impossible to do in those two years. The strategy implementation tool is primarily a rational organization, there are too many courts. I suppose by the criteria of Europe, the world and so on. The courts are ineffective, perhaps. However, some factors not quite present in France, Czech Republic, Slovenia, etc. should be taken into account in the rationalisation of the network. Some of them also mentioned a colleague Stanimirovic, which is a guarantee that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their social status, will get fast, clear and relatively cheap access to the court. How to reduce backlogs? There are different models. One of them was proposed here and with this overtime of judges and with judges from effective courts going to help where that is not the case. But it is clear to all of us that, in addition to changing regulations and systems that can be agreed on in such boxes and boxes, it is necessary to change practice, which will again mean that somewhere, a man who does not work according to the criteria that we have finally agreed on, which the state has accepted as criteria for civilised normal functioning. As regards the length of the dispute, it is clear, and this strategy also foresees, among other things, the information section that judges will be exposed to pre-arranged rules and, on the other hand, to the public, that this will significantly affect the length of the disputes. If you can finally look at the Internet and see that a certain judge is running a dispute of three, four, five, ten or no God for twenty years, obviously there are also cases, if it is against the rules established, there can be no judicial authority that will not sanction such a judge. If you don't know it in public, if the public doesn't see it, then of course none of it does. This view of the public and the possibility of the public commenting on the court's decisions, that the public has an opinion on the court's decisions, is not a danger. It is not a threat to an independent judge and an independent judiciary, it is the advantage of a democratic system. The alternative dispute resolution system is also well planned. Alternative dispute resolution would certainly drive out the courts, however, and the state must show itself by example that what happened to her with teachers' goddesses, that thousands of court proceedings were being launched, that the state was losing them, that they would be lost, well after a certain time, and there was an agreement, but there were thousands of such disputes that the state knew would lose their disputes and all one thing went to court. Completely unnecessary, irrational, expensive, and burdensome courts with completely pointless work. Jump. Corruption in Croats doesn't seem to break so easily. We talked about one aspect of this corruption yesterday, or last Friday about corruption in politics. We'll talk about the second tomorrow or the second week when we'll talk about the audits at the ministries where the public procurement without the tenders is purchased for 3 billion dollars, I think, Kuna. Hoping about it shuts up. You shouldn't keep your mouth shut about that. But if there's nothing to say, maybe it's better to keep quiet. All in all such a strategy should not only take note of knowledge but also praise me as it seems to me that someone here has already said, a bold move, a move that reminds me of the move of Minister Primorac, who went into reform of higher education without any basis, but he cut and started. If he hadn't left, there'd never have been a basis. Someone had to go. This move is at the level of that courage, and on that side, I'm giving all the credit to the Minister, and I should have made up my mind and come out with something like this. But all in all it cannot be accepted as an act by which the Croatian judiciary will be reformed from tomorrow but rather as a credential study, shouldology is a science of what needs to be done. You have to do it. It's all to be done together. How and how it's going to be in the next two and then even in the next four or so years, you just see. Something that is not even in there, one committee reporter mentioned, are working courts, or if it is already impossible to establish new specialised courts, then at least departments of regular courts that would deal with these cases. The Minister says these cases are not enough to establish specialised courts. Maybe. However, these cases are so urgent and so important for the everyday survival of people who find themselves in such disputes that the Croatian judiciary and Croatian courts must also be bound by organisational means, therefore, by organisation of parts or special courts that such disputes will be resolved not only within the appropriate time frame but also by the time that people who are in such a situation will be tried with the employer, so that they are on the road, which will save these people's heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55114	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55115	Mr. President, my colleague Vuljanic is talking about... The court stated that the indictment against Mr. Vukelic was also kept in the drawer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just not true. In addition, Mr. Vukelić was not even in the position of the authorities at the time that he could intervene that his indictment, which was rejected as unfounded, was kept in the drawer. Only if she doesn't think that the minister at the time who was from another party, from the SDP, has intervened to keep it in the drawer. That really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55116	Second correction, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. What is it, a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55117	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. So here, a colleague violated Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, because by calling for a correction, he sends some insinuations here, and he must be measured by a metre or a elbow as he has learned, and let him wonder where and in which party he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55118	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. ... Peace, please. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Who mentioned you at all? Here you go. Here you go, pals. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55119	A colleague, Vuljanic, incorrectly claimed that Minister Primorac started a reform in higher education. The reform began by passing the law in the 7th month of 2003, while the current Minister Primorac was not even in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55120	Honourable representative Ljubica Lalić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55121	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Many reforms or changes in existing systems are needed in Croatia today. They are often wrongly explained for their accession to the European Union. We need change not for someone else but for ourselves. The basis of the functioning of each social community called the State is the functioning of the rule of law. No matter how close our eyes to the truth, everyday events suggest that the rule of law does not work for us. Legal uncertainty is the greatest enemy of all progress of society, of the state, but it threatens its stability. One of the fundamental assumptions of establishing the functioning of the rule of law is the efficient and impeccable functioning of the judicial system. Therefore, we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party consider reform or change in this system the most important, which must be aimed at establishing justice as an effective, fair, legal, impartial and democratic way of resolving disputes. In order to get such justice, it must be independent. It must not be influenced by the remaining two authorities, legislative and executive. In particular, the influence of politics and the bearer of political power must be freed. The promoter of this reform considers that, in the proposed material, the strategy states that the existing legislative framework indicates that the influence of the legislative and executive authorities on the judicial authority has been disabled. Or, in fact, reduced to the least possible measure. The legislative framework can theoretically look perfect but it shows its value only in application. Despite the good legislative framework, we do not have an effective judiciary, and on some examples we will see neither fair nor legal nor impartial justice. For the past 10 years, we've had judges not chosen but named. They are called the State Judicial Council, which the motioner of this reform says is an independent and independent body. If it is borne in mind that members of the State Judicial Council are appointed at the age of 4 by the Croatian Parliament, then it is neither approximately nor independent, nor independent body, but has been appointed by choice of political will, which at that time makes up the majority in the Assembly. This body, appointed by the political will of the majority, is appointed by the judges. It is hard to believe that political voters name judges free of all political influences. All the imperfections of such a system of appointments were expressed in the 1990s when political will resulted in the resolution of all previous judges and the appointment of lifetime judges, or judges with continued conduct of office. There is then a interruption of continuity and accumulation of unsolved objects. The new inexperienced, and often unprofessional judges are exposed to the skills of today's experienced judges, and from the day of the attorney's resolution. Of course, in those cases, unexperienced judges were losers, and faith in the victory of justice and the law died and eventually died. Today, the judiciary has little faith, and most often it does not believe. Confidence has led to hopelessness, and hopelessness to resort to various forms of self-help. With such a judiciary, neither citizens nor entrepreneurs can have or have a sense of legal certainty. Legal uncertainty stops every entrepreneurial initiative and courage. The guarantee of the independence of the judge should be the continuity of the judicial function. In the old democracies, most of them are. However, continuity does not mean untouchableness and protection against liability for labour, unwitting work, irresponsibility and apparent bias in decision-making. Under the Law on the Responsibilities of Judges, the State Judicial Council decides and, according to the public, the decisions available on responsibility are impossible to speak. It is unacceptable for cases to go out of date and most often they are serious, to know the names of judges whose specialty is to release cases into obsolescence, to do nothing against them, not even to initiate a tight procedure. Unfunctioning of a tight system of responsibility is the most damaging to the majority of the industrious and responsible who, knowingly and secretly, are carrying out their judicial duty. The judiciary must be independent and independent, but in decision-making. Unfortunately, today, the social community is trying to deny the right to ask why our judiciary is ineffective. Today, strange and vague judgments are not to be commented on because it is then a pressure on independence. Is it strange that there are puzzling judgments on whose reasonings the domestic and foreign public are disgusted? It is not enough that the judge only has a law degree, passed a judicial exam, a working experience in certain legal matters, and that the citizen of the Republic of Croatia, the judge must be a moral person, a character to guarantee the evaluation of all social, moral and moral values. Such a judge has the trust of the environment in which he is located, and with such judges trust is the overall power of judgment. The moral profile cannot judge a centralized body far from the middle in which the judicial candidate lived and worked, then the appointment is the result of lobbying and realization of lobbying interests. Not so long ago, we had a case that the President of the Court was appointed as a person against whom a criminal offence was under way, a local environment in a dismal because everyone was known to be neither a civil servant nor a lawyer nor a lawyer or a judge or a judicial practitioner can be a person against whom a criminal case is being conducted, but it can therefore be the President of the Court. So, we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party are pushing for judicial independence, independence and impartiality, and it is not being strengthened and protected in the way proposed by the Proposer of this Strategy. We agree that it is particularly important to protect judicial independence from the impact of corruption in all its forms, but that protection is completely ineffective if it is done only through pay. Pays no matter how much they are not protected from corruption, without the responsibility of the judges there is no effective judicial authority, as the proposer is considering telling us the following quote, I quote: "The responsibility of the judges implies that the judges themselves and independently carry out their duties are extremely responsible. This means that judges must be aware of the weights of their responsibilities and everything they mean. One way of raising the awareness of judges of responsibility by acting on a judicial duty is by continuing education on the meaning of that concept and its importance for knowingly and honorably performing a judicial duty.", finished quote. If it wasn't tragic, it might be comical. Does our government tolerate the appointment of judges who are not even aware of the responsibility they take? It is obvious that because it includes among the reform measures, I quote: "Inclusion of issues, professional ethics and responsibilities in educational programmes for judicial officials and employees.", finished quote. With such a starting point, there is no effective, fair, impartial justice system really need to reduce the backlogs of unresolved cases, and rational use of the expensive judicial system, update and strengthen alternative ways of resolving disputes, reduce the length of court proceedings, especially unification, and thus strengthen judicial practice, introduce free legal assistance. Special care is being given to the reorganisation and rationalisation of the judicial and state-proved network, and the announcement itself has caused disturbances in the work of the courts, and there is a real danger of being unscheduled from the emergency courts. It is particularly important for the network to reflect defined criteria, geographical location and area covered by a court, number and type of case. It will be bad if the network is the result of the power of political power and influence. The backlogs are a difficult balance of the judicial authority, it is proposed to introduce overtime of judges, the full-time judge is certainly not mentally or physically able and is not ready for overtime, those who have worked with the courts know it very well. Let's take a look at the courts and the courtrooms and see that in the unscheduled courts, working hours don't last eight hours. It is unclear what the Proposer means when it says that this measure could be implemented it will be necessary to establish criteria and mechanisms that will stimulate work on the oldest complex items both in regular working hours and in overtime. Every judge is stimulated through pay and is obliged, knowingly, responsibly and up-to-date to solve any case and one that is more complex than others. In its own way, when it was introduced to refer judges from courts who had no delays in the courts that were lagging behind and delegating cases from less-loaded courts, we were optimistic and believed that there would be a positive shift. Unfortunately, the goal has not been achieved, and the up-to-date judges have been demoted for further up-to-dateness, and the unscheduled ones are encouraged to continue to be unscheduled because instead of them, they will be dealt with by someone else. The length of court proceedings is unacceptable in Croatia. One reason is to abuse the procedural powers of the parties, it is natural to expect the party to abuse any procedural authority if it is for its benefit, but it is also natural to expect the judge to use procedural means to prevent the party from needlessly delaying the hearing, but judges do not do so and that is said in this material, and our Government in the Strategy mildly says, quote: "It is necessary to encourage judges.", finished quote. Unbelievable. Delivery is a separate problem and Croatian mail will not solve it until a few kunas or a cup of brandy delivers no progress. The American system knows a very effective system and their delivery does not delay the procedure. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees every citizen access to the court. Many citizens do not use their constitutional right for ignorance and part for material reasons. Not so long ago, citizens had free legal aid, first in municipalities, and then on a certain day of the week in courts, and that was the most effective aid. Today, the Law on Attorneyship obliges lawyers to provide such assistance according to the Croatian Bar of Law but the number of these citizens is low. According to this strategy, we don't know how or where they're going to help. It's said to be regulated by law. And finally, by resizing, we can say that the goals are well set but they are not novelty. They're long known. The way in which these objectives will be achieved and contained in the strategy does not guarantee that in the near future we will get an effective, fair, impartial judiciary. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party cannot support this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55122	Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55123	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! On behalf of the HSP Club, allow me, given that this is really about one time, I would say an ambitious project that carries the ambitious title of the reform strategy of anything, and in particular the judicial system is certainly ambitious. Well then a few words on behalf of the Club of HSP which will actually be a continuation of some of our assessments in general on the adoption of various strategies in this Croatian Assembly. In Croatia, so far, remember countless national programmes, plans and strategies have been adopted. The amount of this text, as well as the infinite list of goals that have never actually been achieved, make a significant contribution to utopian thought. These have been simple texts usually full of humor quite accessible to all and therefore somewhat unprofessional but with very simple messages from the Croatian people about the great gap between what we want and what we can do. As such texts certainly have unquestionably philosophical, historical, and cultural value. It would therefore be desirable, if I were to be a little sarcastic, that the competent authorities in cooperation with some daily list at least publish parts of these programmes and strategies and make them accessible to Croatian citizens at a popular price of 29 kuna as it has recently been common. Or maybe if you don't publish them entirely of that strategy then at least some, will deliberately use the term, the best of or some kind of riser and... All those strategies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, such a fate of all the strategies so far stems from the simple circumstances that have not been adopted by consensus of all parties, let alone the national consensus already normally constitutes an act of a political option which, of course, the next authority does not have to implement and does not normally implement. During the last government, I will remind you, the adoption of strategies and national plans has culminated in the publication of an entire library of texts with the pretentious title "Croatia in the 21st Century". This library is now strategically-planned last year's snow. No one remembers it but absolutely no one remembers it let alone hold it. Today's abandoned project of pretentious title "Croatia in the 21st Century" has only existed as an unscheduled website with the latest news since 6.11.2003, as the government adopted a proposal for a "Croatian in the 21st century - tourism". That's the last news of those strategies. Since 6.11.2003, something before the election and something before the change of power. It was the last book in the library. So she referred to tourism. If everything wasn't simply bad and without any complications in the implementation of the plans and strategies in the saga, sometimes very interesting details are introduced, so I'll mention one of the ones that I've done, I'd say the most likely. For example, the ruling party sometimes uses the policy of "read the strategy" of its political opponent in a very different area. For example, the current government implements certain measures from the national family policy of the former government, such as the commercialisation of certain social services, or we only remember the amazing idea of so-called. an alimony fund that the centre of a multi-member family has been moved to single parents. Therefore, the proposed strategy that we are talking today about reforming the justice system in this sense of the HSP Club as well as any previous adoption of strategies without consensus provides for short-term fate. At best until the change of government. Quality in terms of literary, philosophical or legal text is below our level of average strategies previously seen. Here's a few words on that. The main starting point of this strategy is that everything is good in the judiciary. Or, and a normative legal framework and state. It's being determined but everything needs to be changed and there's still no telling when or how it's going to change. It's a message from this strategy. It reminded me of my late high school history professor who said about World War II about this way: "We had nothing before the war and then the Germans came and brought us all down." It also says in this strategy that everything is good in the judiciary but that everything needs to be changed. This provides for a series of measures that would radically change the judicial system and at the same time have parts with such content, quote the 5 strategy. "In principle, it can be said that the existing constitutional and legislative framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Courts, the Law on State Attorneys, the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Law on the Payments of Judges and other judicial officials is a good legal basis for establishing the independence of the judiciary and the same comes from the opinions of international experts. There are elections, promotions, appointments and resolutions of judges and state lawyers and the procedure of their strict responsibility have been laid down in a way that almost completely excludes the possibility of the influence of policy or legislative and executive authorities." Now I'm going to continue with the quote on the right-hand side, page ten. "Therefore, ensuring consistent application of the existing legislative framework, its ongoing review and upgrades are imperatives in protecting the judicial system from any possible influence of other authorities." Be careful completely contradictory. Before that, "This is a framework that ensures what we have," and then after that, "We have to fight to avoid that happening, that influence." This text is not only contradictory compared to the overall strategy but is contradictory to itself because, if it is necessary to ensure consistent application of the existing legislative framework, it should not be changed. At least that's how I feel about it. For example, according to this strategy, in order to achieve the rule of law and independence of the judiciary, there are even 4 measures on page 12, including two plus two. Two short-term and two medium-term. It's short-term awareness-building through workshops. I am pleased that "workshop" has been translated from the workshop and other short-term amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council relating to the strict procedure. And two medium-term ones. One is including the issue of professional ethics and responsibility in educational programmes for judicial officials and another is professional duties, seminars on professional duties. Through these four measures, so we will reform the judiciary. When, therefore, through seminars and workshops, we launch awareness-raising and include professional ethics in judicial officials' programmes, we will achieve our strategic goal of ensuring the rule of law and independence of the judiciary. That's what this strategy says. It's even more interesting, actually let me wonder, I thought to myself when I read it God how simple it is? Maybe we should patent it. Even more interesting is chapter 3 under the heading "Creating an effective judicial system" where, perhaps, I quote the strategy "perhaps it would, and perhaps would not achieve the effectiveness of the judicial system by reducing the number of courts.". I think that according to this strategy of great importance for decision-making will be a single analysis under the project "Cards 2002." which is called "Twaning Project" with Finland and its components b) described on page 15 and 16. This project, to explain perhaps to those who have not read this in detail, stems from the project that the project plans that we together with the Finns send some questionnaires to our courts on the number of cases and so on and that an analysis will be carried out in the geographical position and area covered by the court, the number of residents in the area and the burden of the court given the number and type of cases. I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that the above information and analysis has or must be carried out by the Ministry of Justice and the State Department of Statistics and by official duty. He's got to have them already. The question is whether foreign experts will finally be told that we are not some kind of banana state and that pointless projects should not be implemented but if they want to help us, let them help us where we need them, not to collect the data that we have since the beginning of time. We don't need such projects. Especially not in strategy. In the entire text of the Justice Strategy, it is unacceptable to use foreign words and terms of the world business or what we say to the world's "business" whether and the multi-companion miles, such as the Croatian environments such as: component of the program, when, back log, judicial management, court management, case floor management, which goes up to that level that even the names of the chapters are written in this style, for example, who are court managers and where to find them? Well, allow it, and I'll end it. At the very least, the text that wants to be a national strategy, the emphasis on nationality is not appropriate to deliver to the national legislative body, an emphasis on the national one with the terminology of the second-class "Microsoft" manual. Given that this strategy also provides for some measures such as amendments and additions to the Executive Act, the sale of seized assets by private companies as listed on page 24 and other strange measures aimed at rooted changes to the judicial system. In fact, some cases would no longer be court cases such as land-booking procedures, some outsider procedures and the like. It is questionable whether any of the proposings have considered this strategy in relation to the basic constitutional settings. And not just about the judgmental authority. Constitutional settings on the judicial authority are also based on the basic provisions of the Croatian Constitution. There's so much on behalf of the HSP Club. We will certainly not support this or any of the strategies that have been adopted without any consensus, because I repeat once again on behalf of the Club, we predict its future until the election changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55124	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55125	Well, in a very exhausting essay that I would call this not to accept the responsibility of my colleague, Rosic has expressed a series of inaccuracies in a series of his well-wrapped inaccuracies, as the meat hides in the charm, as well as his colleague put out a lot. I would correct one, he said that when it comes to this strategy, it is the basis of that strategy that everything is good in the judiciary. On the contrary, this does not stand anywhere but rather stems from the real situation, from real problems, and based on the legal rules voted by members of the party of a respected colleague, the strategy was built. I mention a colleague in this strategic-planning snow last year as well, members of your party participated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55126	Thank you. The second correction of the esteemed representative, Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will without such imaginative comparisons, but here is my colleague, Rosic, read from the Justice System Reform Strategy, read the action plan and said: Through these four measures we will reform the judiciary, it is simply not true because he has read only 4 measures from one chapter and this Strategy has a plan of action with a straight 95 measures with clearly defined deadlines, responsibilities and competencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55128	Thank you very much. We're going to individual debates. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here, we have here a reform strategy, now called the justice system reform strategy. For years, citizens have been listening to about judicial reform and the more talk about it, the more power they may have been fighting against it, and somehow, since the rebellion... The term ran away without citizens having any idea what it is to reform the judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I want to say right now is that a serious strategy is not being taken without those who will implement it. We also adopted during the coalition government a strategy in which representatives of the government, the legislative authorities, so Parliament and the judicial authorities were invited. And so, at the consensus of all three branches of government, there was a material that, which is good, which was carried out in the good part, one part remained in the implementation, and a good part of this new strategy was put out of effect. Not in words, but in silence. You don't talk about such important problems. However, to go concretely on this very proposal for a judicial system reform strategy. And I'd pick up where my colleague Rosic stopped. So in this situation where the Government of one other branch of government, therefore to the Parliament, proposes to the legislative authority such an important thing, it is inadmissible to use foreign terms, English words. But this is not only the case with this strategy, with this proposal, but with a whole series of proposals in which the government has fallen, and then often such proposals of a legal, such initiative, such a national strategy posterises the Croatian Parliament. In 2005, or 2006, did we come to be ashamed of our own language? Do we think that if we say "beklow" that it's something, maybe people won't understand it, so we're like proposing, and we're also going to adopt that strategy something smarter, something, something really smart. And what do we show for it? We first show that we are ashamed of our own language. Secondly, we show that we do not know English, but probably do not know Croatian well either. It's something to talk about seriously, even if there's more to it than just the object of things. Because it speaks in general of thinking about where the Croatian government is going and where Croatia is going. Croatian language is as important as Croatian people and Croatian territory. And then when no one warns us or forces us, we don't know for what reasons, most likely the ones I listed, we use those foreign words. From the court's administration to the court's management. So, in translation from court to court, to court, to court. Management is nothing but management. So what's that for? And of course, there are many things to say about governance and court cases and courts, and that is certainly one subject that needs to be taken up as a significant place as is found in this strategy proposal. What exactly does all the reforms want to achieve? A fair and effective judiciary. But how do you get to him? It seems to me to be commendable for one sentence here, two, three sentences, which speak and outline the present state. In fact, some more radical reforms should be approached only when a desirable inflow of cases in courts is achieved, but also on the one hand, and on the other hand, when lagging behind. But then why reform? So we're in this one magical circle and where to go from. And it's also true that all of these findings that are also mentioned here are that there is no fast and magical wand. There are no heroes in this business. And everyone, both the smartest and the best suggestions that will be tabled today or tomorrow, will not yield any results today or tomorrow or in a year. Maybe during some other government. And then the question often arises whether to go into such procedures as others might boast. But if we leave such a position, then there won't be any reform and then we don't have to deny what's well done to continue, or to improve. Or if we don't agree with that, not to keep quiet, but to make concrete substitute proposals. And that's something that might be the biggest criticism of this strategy. In the whole proposal for a strategy, we find only a few legislative proposals that must, or laws that must be passed, or some amendments that need to be amended in the current legislation. That's not enough. It is not enough, above all, from the starting point of ambition that the strategy has, and on the other hand, from the point of view of unifying the standards of the European Union. I'm just going to mention to you the law that was here and proposed, which is also what some speakers who spoke for clubs and manifested, the Law on Free Legal Assistance. But when that law is passed, we still don't know what he'll look like, and it's certain that the strategy doesn't have to, she mentioned only in what sense and which is the goal and what is the need for that law at all, and that's enough. And that's why she would disagree with those who say that a detailed strategy doesn't talk about it. In this particular sense, it may be the most detailed in a whole series of other things that are very important is not said what could be done and what measure could be concretely achieved. And that's something the strategy must contain. Of course, every strategy comes from then and action plan, action plan, not action plan, or how we will certainly call it in this good habit and intent. Because an action plan or an action plan will be no less arbitrary and effective if we call it that foreign term. So it's probably already here that it's not enough, or it's going to cause one imbalance in our legal system. Because I'm sure it's necessary to intervene with the Law of Attorneys. So then it's also mentioned by the attorney's office, mentioning public records as certainly branches that are not directly part of the judicial system, but are in close connection with the effectiveness of the judicial system, and indeed there is no real reform where we are not seriously concerned with the reform of the attorney's office, I don't mean the state's attorney's office but the attorney's office and the public records. And that's for sure what's worth being found in exactly this strategy. But then we have to have the whole picture and the whole review that we're gonna have to change something in the Law of Attorneyship? We need to enable foreign lawyers to represent. This is something unpopular that perhaps the Bar Association will oppose, but it is certain that this strategy must already know and keep in mind. So what is if something changes, which will necessarily produce and what needs to be changed too. However, it is evident that a strategy as much as it has been discussed hastily. If we see just this visually then at the end, so everything that's going to change, we see how important the media is, the media's influences, and then suddenly at the end we remember the prison system, so we remember and we have to mention it somewhere in the strategy. Well, there can't be a prison system behind the media behind the openness of the system, so when it comes to this chapter. I'm sure it's been a while. What is mentioned in the strategy among the first things is reforming the system network. I don't know why we have a Finnish mirror. Because he's gonna give us some help! But you see, Finland has ten times as many objects as Croatia has. So an absolutely incomparable thing. Then what's biggest, maybe here's the red one, so let me just point out, which seems very important to me, and what's a big comment, on further reform of the criminal system has given up. There's no mention of sanctioning economic crime, there's no talking about concrete things, it's abstract. So this is one of the the thesis and thinking, and that is why I suggest that such a strategy should be taken by consensus not only in the Parliament, because it is very important because of the seriousness that has been adopted is guaranteed and successful. Therefore, the judicial authority itself is not enough to contact the association itself, the judicial authority should be involved in this in order to ultimately have both impact and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55130	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55131	The esteemed colleague, Ingrid, has made one finding about this way. Citizens don't know what justice reform is. I think our citizens know very well, at least in these last two years, what is judicial reform. They learned and saw that judicial reform when a corrupt judge got rid of it. The reform of the judiciary is also when it is found, for example, in the Zagreb court or in the garter of 300 thousand cases which have not been resolved, so the reform is when it is sent by mail that no money from corrupt officials has to be asked, the reform is when the garnery is advanced, etc. etc. So it's a reform and the citizens know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55132	Thank you. Second Amendment, Franjo Arabović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect quote when an esteemed colleague of mine has stated that this government does not bother to remove any English words from its use. Well it is the legitimate right of the Government to use one part of English words, the same as the legitimate right of every person to change a beautiful female, beautiful Croatian name Maria to Ingrid.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55134	Replica, a respected representative of Jagoda Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I would like to replicate to my colleague, of course, not to the extent of this problem, because it's not my area, but it's certainly my area of language that she dedicated most of her exposure to. I'd be very happy and I'm actually very surprised about this purgatory coming from the other side of our assembly. However, I am afraid that this is a double criterion, because when we talked about the Croatian language especially on the right Croatian language and on the Media Committees, and especially in our discussions on Croatian broadcasting, such criteria on the right Croatian language were not applied at all, although we were condemned as firefighters and anything like that. Therefore, I would not say that the issue of Croatian or English is very important about this problem, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55136	Okay. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55137	Thank you very much. I would actually like in a few words to look back on this strategy with an emphasis on several elements that have fallen into my eye. Reading this material with no intention of discussing it, but above all, I was moved by something when I read that we were actually taking this into consideration. I now do not understand this role of this Parliament that something is taking note. So we're gonna lose one afternoon with this paper going to happen all one received it to me or not to notice. We did it nicely online, in the envelope we could learn that we were not wasting time and that we were going to do something else. Now given the opportunity to tell us something about the metrics, so on this strategy, my first dilemma was that we might be able to think about something strategic, and then also strategically talk, let alone write something, you have to have some data. I haven't seen any data, actually even the material says that there aren't, at least some of us, based on which we could actually draw some strategic conclusions. So I would be happier if I had had had the opportunity to contribute or, as some preface of this material, to see how many Croatian courts receive annual cases, and perhaps even in courts, by types of courts, by territory and... You mean the Finnish results? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I mean Croatian results, not Finnish. And I'd actually be easier to talk about everything, whether we have too many judges, whether we have too few judges, whether judges have to work overtime, whether all judges from all courts actually go into the same criteria of evaluation, evaluations, and if you want the final results of the work. In fact, when you don't have that data, when I don't know how many cases there are in Biograd and how many Cavtat Criminal Courts I'm not sure we could actually talk about here in a sense that these two courts should connect, then two don't need to. But apparently someone had a need to inform us that some courts would merge, that some courts would be abolished. What I'm particularly concerned about is that we also don't see any kind of deadline, some sort of sequence of things in this material. We received it, we have something called short-term, long-term and medium-term measures. However, I must admit that I would be happier if we had discussed the proposal and seeing a network of courts in the Republic of Croatia this afternoon or this afternoon. Well, if we'd lost two or three days to that, instead of talking about an abstract strategy that I don't think is going to be able to produce any results, except for some general statement of what would be done. But if that's the case, it'll depend on some of the data and analysis we have yet to come up with. Therefore, I agree with my colleague Rosic, he will probably never talk about this strategy in this term. What concerns me especially, and I think it is a very brave strategy that someone has made and drawn these circles around the schedule of these courts in the Republic of Croatia. So, according to what is predicted, there is, say, no court on any Central Dalmatian island, but none. What does that mean? This means that all islanders will have to go to Split to be tried or God forbid, somewhere else. What, though, is a bigger problem for me? For me, the bigger problem is next. What does that mean? That means that we on one side are actually going to have only one criterion, and that's the cost-effectiveness criterion. Because, I don't know, the Bratch court isn't worth it. And since in Zagreb all our courts are profitable, especially municipal and if we had them even more, you would probably be worth it too. Then we'll transfer the judges, the persons of that court, to, say, Zagreb. I think that's inadmissible. A team before no explanation was given for this. I know there are no municipal courts in Zagreb, or municipal judges. I know that in some counties by the number of cases maybe they don't need county courts. It is also likely that on an island by the number of cases, the number of inhabitants does not belong to one, for example, a municipal or criminal court. But if we're running a meaningful policy or, say, a face, the same thing. When you look at the difference, say, like. ... I guess we have to be there a little bit, so to speak, socially sensitive, and then maybe by some criteria that someone imagined in this projection wouldn't actually belong in that court to leave it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now one logical question to me is the layman I'm being asked. So we have a large number of cases behind. We've got a few judges, and now we're cutting the courts, joining the courts. And now let's make sense. So how are we going to solve these backlogs if we have fewer courts and fewer judges? Because I don't believe that the judges, I don't know, will go from Brač to Zagreb or, I don't know, somewhere else in Slavonia. Now, only that what you can't see is that it's not a projection somewhere for 2015. If that's possible, it can hold water. And there's one more thing I'd stop at, which seems very important to me, which is nothing in this strategy. Or speak a little in those two tables at the end. It's money. So, as far as I'm aware, for reforming the judiciary of a guy like this, or so to speak, a caliber like this, if it can be operated at all, there's no money in the Justice Department's budget for this year. Will the money come from some fund, whether, I don't know, they remember this Finns, that this was done under their patronage, that they would give the money I don't know. And I also don't know who's going to give that money for the full realization of this strategy. Because it's very big money, and I'm sure without that money, this story won't be able to be realized. A colleague, Ingrid Anticevic, mentioned that it is surprising that there is nothing in this matter about reforming legislation, especially criminal legislation. And I'd say something, if there was nothing about acting, legislatively. The whole story actually looks like this to me. If you want to shorten some kind of process, I'm saying everything I'm saying as a layman, then it's very important for you to do something legal. Now, if Croatia is one of the few countries for which I know that there is still a law on criminal proceedings as it is, so investigative actions, investigations and all that is stated there, that here, unfortunately in two years, I don't know how many times we discussed the Penal Code, that we are actually discussing the Penal Code in wars. So two articles today, three articles tomorrow, and what's the problem? Why can't we already get it, isn't there any legal sense in Croatia? I know he's got it. Couldn't we get the whole Penal Code? Can't we get the Code of Criminal Procedure where these investigative actions are thrown out, which in many ways dispute criminal proceedings. For the simple reason it seems to me that this is actually one material that should show that something is being done in the direction and direction of judicial reform, and that it is actually just an impression that I am not sure it will produce any results in the sense that the rule of law in Croatia will strengthen. That citizens will therefore feel that the rule of law is strengthening and will not wait for years for a solution to their judicial disputes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55138	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55139	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I may have been able to lift this other bat, but if it were a replica. But allow only one explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55140	I can't respect your replica now...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55141	Yeah, well, that's what I said if it wasn't gonna be, that's what I said if it wasn't going to be the exact correct quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55142	There's got to be a correction to the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55143	Then here, it's going to be a correction to an incorrect assumption in the sense that it's not some kind of project funded by the Finns. It is, therefore, that this strategy, colleague Lucin, doubles whether it will decrease or increase, or whether or not a reduction in the number of courts would favour the creation of an effective judicial system. And to determine that, according to the CARDS program...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55144	To determine that...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55145	...we'll go along with the Finns and look for the data that we...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55146	Comrade Rosic, in order to determine this, we cannot correct the incorrect allegations. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55147	Did a colleague say it was with the Finns? It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55148	You've got a tile over there. Replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, by replicating the esteemed colleague Lucino that according to this template, there are no municipal courts in the Middle Dalmatian islands at all, I would stress that there are no municipal courts in the Kvarner Islands according to this template either. And I have to remind myself that there are about 45 thousand people living in the Kvarner Islands, and the other thing is that according to this template there is no island of Rab at all, which is about 10, so there are about 10,000 inhabitants living on it and the municipal court buildings on the island of Rab were invested several years ago in considerable means so that he could just function and could work normally, so according to this, not only is there no court but there is no island either. I'm sure it's completely inappropriate to say the inhabitants of the island of Losinj, I don't know where they're going to gravitate, say, when they need to turn to the court, so it seems to me, and what's already in the introduction is said that without some concrete data because there's nothing else here other than these bizarre sketches without concrete data on this material to elaborate is absolutely meaningless.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55150	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55151	Thank you very much. It's not just a problem with these courts on the islands. In my opinion, the problem is actually the network of courts all over the coast. As far as I'm concerned, they've had about 26 different courts on the islands by now, and now it's about 10 on the entire coast. In fact, the best of these figures shows the unseriousness of this project, or at least it should have given some explanations of what it really means, because if we know that the courts in Split and Zagreb are municipal and countyal and all so burdened with work that it is impossible that they, regardless of any physical mergers, solve and disputes of some courts from nearby places, municipalities and cities because they simply cannot solve what comes from their territory and so I think that they should and should not be misunderstood I am not against talking and against the new network of courts, I think they need, just not as they are proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55152	The second replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55153	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucin, here you are in your speech somewhere saying that it is said that there are too few judges, that we are now actually still terminating the courts, etc. Just the other way around. Here is the analysis of Croatia, compared with other European countries in third place, according to the number of municipal courts and specialised in population, so second place is the number of judges per population, and first place is the number of administrative staff per population. That is why this Strategy also proposes solutions because obviously something is wrong. We have almost the most judges, almost the most courts, we have enormously long procedures, and we have enormous pending cases. Is this about the necessity, the ineffectiveness of the judges themselves, whether some procedural provisions prevent them from being more efficient and more efficient about it, this Strategy speaks of it as a long-term project that draws out, long-term drawing up an activity plan, and certainly what we're talking about about the network of courts, rationalisation, the rationalisation of courts does not necessarily just mean lifting. So no one is wise enough to lift the courts in Zagreb when it takes three or four municipal courts. Some of them are proposed, therefore, to be discussed on the proposal for measures to be discussed because all these measures and strategies will come before this Assembly as a proposal for legislative texts, so there will be a proposal for a Law on Headquarters and Areas of Courts, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55154	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55155	I agree with a respected colleague related to the data she presented, but she probably knows as well as I do that there are courts in some countries, say in Germany who mentioned organized a little differently, and then, let's say, the judge in Germany has 5.6 advisors who finely prepare his cases and he does 20 cases a day, and we here in this Strategy say that the issue of court advisors is a long-term project. You see, this is how we have been talking in this House for a long time, and at the same time we find that the judiciary is where we are. Now instead of taking it one step at a time to talk about how to do something concrete, we do some general analysis from year to year, not that these are analysis but actually general plans of wishes and what we should do to get an effective judiciary. For four years we've been talking, I've been going back to the CAP, about this CAP changing, about the KZ changing. It's not working. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55156	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am skeptical of this document called the Justice System Reform Strategy for at least two reasons. It's style first. This text reminds me of such a good Stalinist Constitution, a beautiful document on ideal society, in complete contrast to the cruel reality. This is a fairy-tale text, describing some kind of judicial arcade. Well, it's actually written on the ruins of the justice system. The second reason my skeptic is time for the document to come. We're in the second half of your term, third year of power, so these are the documents my lords write in opposition while preparing for power. They become an integral part of some electoral programmes, with them coming to the polls, so if the government is won, then such strategies are implemented with the simple strength of the parliamentary majority. In one word, Madam Minister should work, not write strategies. The time has passed for writing strategies. This society needs three reforms, a pension reform when we know that we have 600 thousand new pensioners who have a pension below 600 thousand kuna, and a thousand 600 kuna has been poored. This society also needs health reform, health reform when we know that the system currently lacks... three billion a year and is recommended as the only medicine to be saved and that all the burden is transferred to the patient. That won't take long. This society needs, of course, judicial reform and that which we have received here is a strategy for this reform offering us a goal, a fair society or a society of justice. Far away we gentlemen are mine from that ideal. We live in a deeply unjust society, in a society where it is possible to commit war crimes or rape or any other crime, but all you have to do is try to do so in an area that is truly competent in Gospić because it guarantees you a liberating verdict regardless of the nature of the crime. Who makes it possible? Who decides? DSV, an important instance. He controls the work of judges, judges, appoints judges, relieves judges. Whether in this regard we can hope it will be better. But it won't get any better because here's what the strategy says about DSV. The independence of a body chosen by a judge in which judges must have a truly dominant influence. Yeah, that's the situation that we now have that judges have really prevailing influence. And then how does that DSV where judges really have a really dominant influence. Today, I read on HINA, finally the judicial duties of Judge Vilovic of Crikvenica have been resolved. Three strict reports and a criminal case against him that's under way. All the time, he was getting a full judge's salary. And now I'm going to read you HINA's news since 16 August 2003. He says "The DSV suspended the strict proceedings against the three judges of the Split Municipal Court yesterday because of a large number of statutes because they have become obsolete to determine their responsibilities." Sounds like a joke, and it's not. It's true. The DSV that should have decided on the judge's strict responsibility for allowing their cases to go out of date allowed such a tight object to go out of date. This should be added to the statement by Notor Vladimir Gredell at the time of the president of the Association of Judges who made fun of all attempts to sanction judges for their unhappiness, so he said I don't see where these great actions are against judges. Well, clearly, there aren't any when the DSV lets them go into oblivion. And now in this strategy it is proposed that everything remain as it is, that judges play a dominant role in the DSV. When our colleague Ivo Josipovic proposed to amend the DSV membership of 1/3 of the judiciary, 1/3 of the professors of law school and 1/3 of civil society, you refused to do so. The only measure that could guarantee the composition of the DSV that it is effective and that it sanctions the likes of judges you have rejected, and now I see you predict that everything remains the same and that everything remains the same as the old one is called reform. When did that court devastation start? It started in 1990. It began by firing, driving from the courts of high-quality educated judges and bringing in a huge number of unprofessional young people alike. That was the only thing that mattered was that they were alike, and we're not getting rid of them while they were alive because they were named for life. We can hope they learn something, but when they haven't learned anything in 15 years, it's gonna be hard for the rest of their working life. This strategy also lacks the role of the public. There is a chapter on the page and a half that talks about relationships with the media and about bringing speakers to the courts. But it's a one-way process. It's a judicial institution process, their attitude towards the public. And the other way around? You obviously think the public has nothing to suffer in it. But I'm not surprised by that, because otherwise you insist that the ministers cancel Article 2 of Article 309. A criminal law that prohibits commenting on the work of judges. You know, being a judge means having great power but it means having a great responsibility. Being a judge is not only a matter of expertise and consistency but also a question of morality and a sense of justice. A huge number of convictions may be legal but not necessarily. Well, legality is being questioned by a senior court, but morality, the justice of a verdict must have the right to comment on the public as well. You don't say anything here about litigious litigation. Look, the appeal is going so easily with us. Everyone goes, and whoever knows they're going to lose in a second-degree procedure. Why? Well, because it's endlessly cheap for him. So it may happen to him that, with the appeal of such work, his case will have to bear some penalty falling into oblivion, and he is worth complaining about, and he is worth taking that little risk, that little stick of going to the courts. It can't be like that. You know, when someone's clearly in charge of the appeal procedure, he'd have to bear the costs if that second-degree procedure was lost, and the total costs were in that second-degree. Because the trial is expensive for the state. For an individual, it's cheap here today. We have a huge number of files from that licentious litigation and the worst of all that the state is also an informed litigator. The state runs pointless, completely pointless pre-lossed disputes, burdens the courts, spends that court money, spends the money of its own budget and does not make any sense. We don't have an answer in this document for any of these questions. Therefore, when reading this strategy, what can be done with it rather than what counterpart Lucin says, let her know. Well, he took note of everyone who's read but she's a testimony that there's no real reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55158	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55159	Thank you very much. A fellow representative, Stazic, said Article 309(2) prohibits commenting on the work of the court or court ruling. That's not true. It prohibits the influence on the work of judges before passing a powerful, powerful verdict, rather than commenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55160	Replica's respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55161	Thank you, Mr. President. In the first place, I will replicate that part of the exhibition when he said publicly that what is literally or about what makes sense or purpose at all is to bring this Strategy when we have the district of the Municipal Court in Gospić or the court in Gospić where it is literally allowed to rape and murder without being punished for it. Sir, I'm gonna track down that's what you say a lot too. In this way, comment exactly on the area of work of a municipal court or of the County Court of one area, which you in your parliamentary presentation, in this way, are actually insinuating and in this Assembly to the public that some people live there, some judges, there, the judiciary and the state function in a way that people who kill and rape are walking in the streets and that they will not be safely prosecuted, punished or otherwise sanctioned by the state. And it's not the first time, and that's why I intervene. Mr. Stalling with reasons some of the judgments that are really cartoons in every sense and in logical and historical, and in legal terms we can talk about it. I, too, with those parts that we had the opportunity to hear and read about also don't agree on much. But in such a perfidious way to accuse one area, the area of Lika-Senj County, not to accuse but to blacken and not for the first time in this Assembly of being a judiciary, the functioning of the rule of law at such a level as to literally walk rapists and murderers on the streets is inappropriate and everyone thinks that those people who live down there, who normally live and function, and I assure you because I don't know you were in Gospić at all and when you were last in Gospić that you can in any way comment that the picture and this climate and total Lika-Senj County is something completely different from the perception in your head, so I'll say that in your head, literally, it's in your head. This is not the first time you come forward when you comment on the functioning of the judiciary and the functioning of the judiciary in the area of Ličko-Senj County and the city, the town of Gospić. It would take me so long to get everything...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55162	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55163	When I was in Gospić, I thought it was irrelevant. That's what they said, I was a year ago, but no matter what, all the newspapers wrote about it. And you know, a man doesn't have to drink a barrel of wine to realize he's sour. The other thing, yes, I said that according to Gospić, they're supposed to be dating rapists. I'm walking. Unfortunately, they walk because of the court's work in Gospić and such judges who work in the Gospić court walk through Gospić's rapists. There. It's the state of our... That's it, that's the state of our justice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Many of the writings, many of the writings had to be removed from the court in Gospić to other courts, for example, the one in Rijeka, for example, because judges in Gospić could not be trusted. And I'm wondering what kind of DSV is that that judge of yours continues to beat and suffers like a judge? But I'm also wondering how, how will DSV in the first place, and how can it react differently when such judges find their lawyers in you? [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55164	This is an offensive fellow Stazic Why, in this way, do you insult your representative with the claim that a representative in those who are convicted or otherwise found their lawyers? [[And that wasn't?]] Lawyers, yes. Don't be a co-worker again, you know very well what this is all about. You now have a chance for a replica. Thank you. [[I'm giving up.]] Dear representative Milanka Opačić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55165	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I would agree with many of my predecessors who said there aren't many elements here to reform the justice system. In most parts, it is actually an analysis of the situation and there is really little in there that would paint the real reform of the judiciary that you're thinking of entering. One of the problems you mentioned here is in your opinion a large number of courts. I do not know if the ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary is really a problem in too many courts, but I am absolutely sure that it is a word and that the problem with the ineffectiveness of judges and their intricacies and incompetence when a number of judges are in question. So not everyone, but one number of judges certainly works that way. They simply cannot explain differently the position in which they often do not judge masters in courtrooms and those who lead the process but are masters and lead the process lawyers and their parties. Several recent years have tried to amend certain laws to lead to the fact that the maneuvering space of those who try to avoid justice being reduced in some way, however, it is obvious that there is still not enough or better said one number of judges and you are in your document here and are not used by all the procedural actions that could be used to shorten the procedure and to combat therefore possible manipulation by a certain number of those who are in a particular judicial process. As much as I support any kind of education, however, I believe that education must be mandatory, it is part of the job, and it cannot be at will whether someone will be educated or not? She has to be mandatory. But I also can't agree with what you wrote here, and you said about this: "Encourage the work of judges on older cases." I think these people have a salary relatively decent for their jobs and I don't see what it means to encourage them. I think they need to set certain rules in which they must function, so theirs is to do certain things. Whether they're new or old, but it's theirs to work. Therefore, on other matters no one is encouraged, so I don't think that's what you should do with judges in justice. My colleague Stazic here said something about the failure of DSV and I really don't think we're going to do much if either of us criticizes the work of judges. I think it's much better when the profession itself says something about the work of judges and I think it's really a problem in the functioning of these bodies like DSV or as the State's Attorney's Council. I will, for example, remind myself of the latest decisions of the State Attorney's Council that I find scandalous and that it has sent a very bad message to people who work in the State's Attorney's Office, and it is a requirement that the work of the State's Attorney's Office be temporarily, so until the end of a certain procedure that has been initiated in some way away from the person there is evidence that it has covered up the case of child abuse. Unfortunately, people sitting in the State's Attorney's Council voted differently and said that a person could continue to work at the State's Attorney's Office and that what she did before, so she would cover up the case and stop child abusers from really not such a terrible thing, not some great criminal in the profession and that as such she could continue to do and that she would not harm the persecution of those who commit crimes to the harm of minors. I don't agree with that. I think it was a bad message to all those who do their job fairly, that those who deal with cover-up cases like that can still work and be simply unpunished for those things. Until people in such bodies as the DSV or the State's Attorney's Council start acting a little differently and going along a line of less resistance and irrevocableness, we will have this situation in the judiciary, and until then we will have situations like this that my colleague Stazic was talking about. So, a judge's case in Gospić or some other judges we could also read about in the paper. In addition to what I've been saying so far, it's just that in one part of the judge there are very bad modernists in their courtrooms talking, for example. and a very large number of divorce cases that last for a very long time. Some of them last up to four years. I really don't see what new evidence someone's been carrying out in such a procedure that a court dispute should take four years. When it comes to the division of property, it's something else entirely. It's a much more complicated procedure. But in this part of it, I think things should really look different and it's quite certain that it's about judges who don't know how to do their job and who should do it differently and put it in the judicial system. And finally, I would like to say and take this opportunity to ask you, Madam Justice Minister, to take one step further in relation to what the former government has done when it comes to the position of children who are being abused and who are being investigated and in court. You know that we have limited the procedure, that children cannot be questioned more than I seem two or three times, that we have in some way prescribed that they be tested through video links to protect the child from further trauma. As far as I know in some county youth courts, buying is also equipment, and that's how it's done. However, there is still a major problem because it is a very large time-out from the moment when a child tells a mental health expert that it has been abused to the entire process that is being initiated, hence, executive. And I think that it should work out that the moment a child says and spends its own kind of testimony and that it just might be the only statement that the child will give because the further trauma of children and the more and more the less the arguments and evidence from the child can be obtained. For that I think many experts are at your disposal and I think there should be another step in that section to protect these children, because they are also further traumatized by the criminal act that has been committed against them, so that we do not traumatise them further in the system. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55166	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55167	Thank you very much. Ms. Opačić incorrectly stated that the State Attorney's Council had not decided on the suspension of the state's attorney, and there was evidence that she was covering up some cases concerning child abuse. It's just not true. Because the State's Attorney's Council did not say that there was evidence, but that there was a reasonable doubt and that in this part of the strict procedure, it did not find a reason for the suspension, but that it would pass a tight procedure on to the new assembly of the State's Attorney's Council because they were given the term of office. And I beg you, we have chosen a new State's Attorney's Council here, so let's make sure that the case doesn't go out of date the way it is, unfortunately, or to the shame of the State Judiciary Council, some cases have fallen into obsolescence. Which I could agree with if it wasn't right. So it's about reasonable doubt and we can discuss whether and the reasonable doubt might have been enough at least to get the state's attorney off the head of the department at the State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55168	Thank you very much. We've got three replicas of a colleague who's in trouble right now to look back at the replica. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55169	A colleague, Opačić, noted that despite the legal changes, judges do not assume the role of lord in the courtroom. The strategy also lists a good legislative framework. And it's good not to mention further changes to the law. Almost everything that needed to be changed has changed. Our biggest problem is the one that's more secure than the laws passed is implementation. And that is why it is certainly necessary to see what happens to the application of the Law on Prosecution. Why are some standards that have just been established to speed up the process not being respected, or to what extent, or to what extent, or what are the obstacles? That's where we could see and improve, so see what's the matter. Furthermore, this is really one serious question, a composition, actually a general action of the DSV and the State's Attorney's Council. This is not how it's gonna work. The judges are reluctant to take over the role they fought for. They hate to judge their colleagues. Both executive and legislative authorities, such as those everywhere in the world, must assume that part of responsibility everywhere in Europe. Here, as an opposition we support you to take that part, to take over all together because this is not going to work. There's a destiny plan, and there's every other one with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55170	Thank you. This is a weird situation right now. You've got a replica, Mr. Puplic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55171	It's nothing, for the sake of the public and my colleague here, I'm gonna say I'm sorry he doesn't have a colleague. First, it's a guideline for clear reasons that, in fact, are the facts of the situation in our justice system. Well, that was actually the reason for this strategy. So, both lengthy court proceedings and child insecure and poor and these and those, etc. So why didn't she mention in her debate what the weak points of this strategy were, so let's say let's fix it. That's where I'd see the responsibility of her as an opposition politician. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55172	And respected representative Ante Bagaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55173	Ivan. Thank you, Mr. President. But since our colleague's gone, I'm really going to refer my line to her and recommend it with my return, and I hope she gets it, because otherwise it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55174	Yeah. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55175	Mr. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I personally don't believe in any rapid changes in anything, especially in the judiciary. However, I consider this strategy one good document, one good act, but what I find even more positive is all these measures that we have brought to the judiciary in these two years and all that we have done in the judiciary in these two years. There were objections that this strategy should have been made and that it should have been involved in its production and those who will apply it tomorrow, which are judges, scientists and so on. I just want to remind you that last December, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, its Scientific Council for the State Administration, the judiciary and the rule of law, held a round table where this strategy was just presented. On that round table were the presidents of all our courts, from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the High Court of Commerce, from respected professors, so I would say, I read materials from that round table, all that is relevant in our legal science and practice. When I read a little bit of their discussion on that round table, one is a general environment I would say positive, one is a positive assessment not only of this strategy but is also a positive assessment of everything that is actually happening in our judiciary. I don't want to be someone here right now who's going to try to take out a picture of black and white and so compete with your government, our government, but there's no doubt that certain good things are triggered in fact in the earlier government, it's not at all controversial. But all this stuff that's been done in these two years, it's really in my opinion, in the end, I've had a lawyer's office and I've been working and I really think our judiciary is going in one good direction. But there is no doubt, beware the judiciary has been abandoned for years. This strategy does not come from positive facts at all, as was said here. It was said here that this strategy comes from how everything in our justice system is great and wonderful and basically now we have nothing to change. This strategy is about to begin and is aware of all the shortcomings, she is aware of all the problems that have actually been accumulated for years. Because watch out, we can't claim that there are no pending cases in our judiciary. A million and 600 thousand cases unsettled so whoever goes to deny it could ask him if he lives on Mars or lives in Croatia. It's just our fact, it's just ours. And from this point on, I would say a number of good measures to which such things should be regulated in the future and how to actually bring that judiciary into a normal environment, into an environment where this judiciary will indeed be a service of citizens and where it will affirm the rule of law and the rule of law. I just want to briefly remind you of what we've brought in these two years. A lot has been said in practical circles, scientific circles that one of the good measures that will actually solve a lot, redistribution of objects. In fact, even when we look at the strategy and look at the statistics, we see that our most burdened courts are Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, of course because they concentrate most of their lives there, there is the most business change and all that, and of course these courts have the highest number of cases. In these courts, there is a crowd and a measure that has been said for many years to be moved and sent to courts with less pressure, which have fewer cases, is only being carried out back two years. She just needs to bring her real effects into the future, because we're really choked out. It is one of the measures that has no doubt that the problem can be resolved. There is no doubt that we are also having a slow procedure, which is what counterpart Antičević said now, that we really need to reconsider what this is about in the Law on Prosecution and here in the strategy it is said, it is precisely in the strategy that this problem is being discussed. It is said that we have a decent legislative framework to move faster. But what is it? When we look at it, I used to say it when we passed the Law on Courts. We have one mentality of the trial, one mentality of the average judge not only of the first degree but of the second degree where we refer to the case according to the system of the ringishipil. We're going around the metrics of what kind of procedural matters, we're not going to the metrics, and that's why when we come to a second-degree court for appeal, that court, although according to the law on litigation, has the ability to judge the matter in a measure of measure, means to change the first-degree verdict, he doesn't do it but who for what ridiculous reasons I could at least 50 such judgments here now individually state, he returns to a retrial. And not once, but bring it back once or twice or three times. That's actually our problem, and I think that's, in the end, even in the strategy. That even says in the strategy, that strategy actually got to know the problem. And that is why I also welcome what the ministry has put in place to strengthen what we have, which was here in one negative context, to strengthen our awareness. That is exactly what one consciousness should change, one way of trial that is dominant in Croatia should be changed, and this should go into the scale of things and should be discussed in the process of relevant facts and therefore will certainly become faster. Also one of the problems that is definitely not had to come to us either, but it is one of the really exhausted models and networks and organizations of courts and ways of managing these courts, and in the end and way of managing these human resources that are in courts. It's also a very important thing to talk about in the strategy, it's an unequal case law. Unequal court practice and that is what really needs to be resolved and that questionable relationship between the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court that we have. Unfortunately, today we have a situation in Croatia that in many cases we find it much easier to come to the Constitutional Court, and it is actually impossible to get to the Supreme Court. It seems to me that it is in preparation to change the Institute's revision in the Law on Procedural Procedure so that it can actually allow a larger number of entities to come to the Supreme Court. So I think it's very good to discuss this strategy that I said was very well diagnosed with the situation in which we are, to see the problems that in our judiciary are, but in any case it also provides certain solutions. Of course, those solutions can't be carried out overnight, it's all a process, it's all a process because if one segment is so important to the functioning of a state like the judiciary, abandoned for many years then it can't be solved overnight or solved. But what was done two years ago and before that, I think it gives hope and certainly gives us one confidence that we're going in the right direction. And it's very nice and we've seen all the public presentations, the digitization of land books. It's really an important step. We've all seen the number of loose objects in the garland together. We have also made it possible by changing the law to a faster process of solving land and book matters. These are all unequivocal steps that are significant. Someone also spoke here about the responsibility of the judges. If we were to look at the statistics of how the strict measures were expressed to judges back 10 years ago, then we would actually, I think, come to the data that just a few years ago the State Judiciary Council has said the most in fact the strict measures of judges. And that's how it actually promotes responsibility and awareness in the work of these judges. So there's a series of measures that we've come up with. Finally, we have also adopted a new Law on Mandatory Relations in which we have brought some things closer to the European Union. We've brought about major amendments to the executive law. Here last night was a show where we saw that a respected lawyer actually said it was also a shift forward. The Judicial Academy is also experiencing its affirmation. We see here a proposal from this strategy that we actually have regional centres of this strategy. Because the education of judges, that's what we really have to insist on. And I just want to say one more thing. As far as alternative dispute resolution is concerned, it's something we don't have tradition. And that's something to actually start with. Because every year we have an increasing number of objects, an increasing inflow and an increasing inflow of objects. And that's what actually might change in some way in 10 or 15 years our people's consciousness that they need to exhaust certain mechanisms before they come to court. And that's why I think this strategy is a very important document, it's a good document, but what I want to potential as three key measures that are. First, they have to get rid of the backlogs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55176	Thank you very much. This measure is enough. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55177	Well, most of them would agree with what a colleague said. That the shifts are visible. It's a big effort, big money is being invested, we've passed good laws. I remind you that over 6 hundred judicial officials were employed by 2003, and it is likely that something slower has taken place now. However, here in this strategy nothing is said about some better conditions in terms of buildings and so, which is also a big problem. But let's let it go. The fact is, indisputable, that the judges have been investing in the judiciary since we started investing in different ways and education and education and by filling the courts to solve a number of cases. But every year there's a growing number of cases coming back to the courts and again every year we're more and more behind. And that's our problem. So the problem is a little bit more serious and it only goes beyond the judiciary. This is a problem for the state to function. The problem is the functioning of the administration and all other institutions. In every courteous country, the judiciary is the last instance and one excess when citizens speak. It's a rule with us. What does that mean? That nothing else, that everything else is even less functioning than justice. And the most state administration, that's a fact, and then burdens the judiciary knowingly, and then invests in that judiciary. And how to get out of that circle. Therefore, the most important thing is to discipline the state itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55178	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55179	You see, fellow Members, how nicely we agreed on most things, even though I spoke aphidically about the strategy, and you said negatively. And here I completely agree with you, and that's what I finally said. Every year, an increasing inflow of cases, and therefore it is good that the strategy also said that the focus will also be on alternative methods of dispute resolution. Stand still, intervening before the dispute. And it's actually in some legislation that it's even to carry out such a procedure and insight to come to court and we really need to introduce it. It has no doubt because our mentality of a man is to go to court. We had no fees, we had, I don't know what opportunities, people were naturally judged. Not to say in some parts more in some parts less. But in any case, with this, it's supposed to start because it won't bring the effects to rapid relations, but in five or ten years, it certainly will.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55180	Because the law cannot forbid... Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55181	Thank you very much. Madam Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen representatives. So here, as it was supposed to be, at least the current course of the debate, and probably also since, it has shown that from this document that we have called or which the government has called the reform strategy of the judicial system, what is most interesting to the MPs, it will essentially be one of the measures that is envisaged under this reform. Where the reorganisation of the network of courts is envisaged, by reducing the number of courts, by joining existing courts, and by different determinations of their actual and local competences. So allow me a few words about this measure. We have received in our materials and a special supplement where we are given a visual view of the number of courts in Croatia. Then, what is the current situation by the number of courts and then we got something called the "main criterion of analysis" by which certain recommendations are made which are further listed. And so, according to these criteria, the most important things turned out to be the number of cases in relation to the number of judges and other staff, the number of residents and population density in the area of jurisdiction, the geographical location of judicial buildings and the state of municipal buildings. And then we have these project recommendations that you'd like to comment on, and I'd like to kind of let you know that there are positive ones, so there's both pro and vice versa and in these cases. The first recommendation does not open any court that has not been opened so far. I think here since we haven't gotten any material that would talk about the courts' headquarters, their jurisdiction to the locals, etc. It does not need to be specifically discussed because, as is apparent from these materials, this is about some 10 municipal courts of new ones that should be opened. Five misdemeanors and one commercial. However, on the second recommendation, close recently open courts that do not have staff, where one municipal court is concerned and three infringement courts have things to say about agreeing with such a recommendation, and we can possibly explain that the existing network of courts, given the geographical link which one of the criteria and analysis with the nearest courts is sufficient in relation to providing full legal protection to citizens. However, there is another party that will say that this question should be answered negatively because, before making any decision on whether or not those courts which do not have staff and are recently open should be closed, it should, in any case, be taken into account by me, taking into account other criteria other than those mentioned, and access to them only if they are fully justified. On the third recommendation, attach all misdemeanor courts to municipal courts. Now there is a question of how to really spend it in some future time and whether it makes sense, whether it is necessary or not. Some believe that this would contribute to the rationalisation of the network of courts, in order to reduce the pressure on the state budget with a smaller number of courts, and to allow judges of criminal courts to judge in various types of cases which would allow them to have a wider range of cases in which they would judge and those who think in this way would lead to greater efficiency of the courts, the work of the court and the economics of the business. However, there are also those who will say that this is not necessary and that this is not good because they believe that these courts are misdemeanor specialised courts whose actual jurisdiction is actually extended because they judge cases of domestic violence, drugs, weapons, car accidents with severe consequences, etc. and that they should impose high fines as well as prison sentences and that they must maintain such an independent position within the judiciary. I think it is still important for the negative answer to this question whether these courts join municipal courts and the question that perhaps all the specificities of the infringement procedure have not been fully taken into account and that such a recommendation given in these faiths is possible and only implemented with the previous reform of the criminal law, and in particular the infringement procedure. The fourth recommendation to initiate the merger of municipal courts. I mean, in some ways, the thinking of a good part and the public is professional, but also generally the public because especially the professional public considers the part that advocates such a situation to lead to greater efficiency and rationalisation and to reduce the inequality of law enforcement, and hence business costs. However, I think that there is a large majority of those who are going to oppose such a case, and because I personally think that there must be adherence here and respect the particularity of the areas in which the court is acting, tradition, historical and cultural heritage and that there would be no confusion here just as Mr. Lucin has spoken in his debate about the suspension of courts in the islands, I also foresee the abolition of the number of municipal and county courts in northern parts of Croatia, and I must say that I see that by these tickets that I also saw in Međimurje, so I have also anticipated the abolition or merger of the Municipal Court in Prelogo, the abolition of the County Court in Čakovec. So let me make it very short for you, Madam Minister, just here in a few sentences to bring the history of the trial in Međimurje and that is precisely on the trail of what I said should be guided and given the area where it is proposed and where its tradition is taking part and how long it works. The method of trial in Međimurje began in 1837 since the government court of the Counts of Fesketić was also mentioned or was then called the court of the ladyship. In 1872, a formal trial was established in Čakovec and Međimurje when the Kotar and Municipal Court were established. So in 1872 there were already two courts and there were two courts of one lower jurisdiction, all of which lasted until 1962 when the Kotar courts were abolished, and for Međimurje area there was only one single municipal court that existed until 1998 when a special municipal court was established in Prelog and the County Court in Čakovec. I think that these are things that should be in mind to anyone who will at any time raise the question of this proposal for reform that we have discussed this afternoon and I am asking you that if it is really going to be at a time when you are the minister and about these problems that I have been trying to say here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55182	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 9:30 tomorrow. The first is the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55184	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! So I had no doubt that this strategy as well as everyone else will experience a series of criticisms and bad opinions still because we still have an analysis of the strategy as a political issue as a professional question. However, this strategy is truly comprehensive, comprehensive and I think that we should have a lot of trust regardless of what has no date, but finally it depends not on the minister but depends on me thinking about the budget. Namely, the founding state is always important to analyse because we have had a huge number of pending cases for years, accumulated, the working conditions of the courts are not the best and it is good to start from that. Namely, if we look a little bit and I have to mention the neighboring Samobor, the working conditions in which the judges work there are really bad, the rooms are in the attic. The misdemeanor court is in the attic. And now imagine a border post where they get caught by a few defectors every minute of the day and the rest we drag them all to some attic and we judge them there. So, it's good, it's a really good idea for a misdemeanor court to join the municipal court because it's going to get safe and at its persuasion. As far as the court's burden and announcements of new cases are concerned, it's no wonder. Finally, they're all on their way and they're all on trial, but let's remember five, six, seven, ten years ago there was far less infrastructure, less connections of gas, communal. So there was less chance that someone would spend something and not pay. Now it's often a practice already and practice is non-payment and because people believe that the subject will be delayed and often happens, it goes into obsolescence and then it will only pay for one part and not all. However, this strategy has indicated how it will come to that as well. Rationalisation is certainly well-proposed here, but it should be careful especially since it may happen that our islands are left without vessels and given the weather conditions, it can happen that people simply don't come to the debate because it's been a storm for a week and then there will be more problems than benefits. So, I'm a little kidding, but the fact that we really need to look after these isolated places, isolated islands, that still don't have to go to shore for every debate. Especially should we praise what is happening to the grants because the fact is that in the local self-government it means a lot because neither the investors who came and wanted to invest anything simply could do anything by the courts. Now I can look in advance at the plots they are interested in, look at the situation, the property which is exceptional, good, useful and which will speed up investment. I think you need to trust, you really need to work as hard as possible to increase the funds. Here we are, and we've helped to equip, edit the space, equip the computers and everything. It would be good for another local self-government to help the courts in this way, because at last the courts work for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55185	Thank you. Dear representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55186	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Here we are on a very interesting topic of judicial reform and all in fact in order to achieve the rule of law, the rule of law, and this is a topic that has long been a subject of interest and interest to the professional and political public and to the general public. Why is it so safe is because the rule of law and the rule of law is a feature of developed and democratic societies and is certainly very clear and the goal of this Croatian state. Our Croatian state as well as other transition countries is passing a thorny path towards establishing the highest standards. Clearly, it is not easy after nearly half a century or half a century to inherit a single-party and totalitarian regime. I therefore think that in Croatia, both the Government and this Parliament can be proud of the European Commission's Report of 9 November last year, which determines Croatia's progress in the process of accepting European standards and primarily strengthening democracy and the rule of law and effective justice as a guarantee of the legal certainty of citizens, legal certainty of economic operators and markets. The final goal is also of these strategies, and later on, we will implement the adoption here in this House of Law. The ultimate goal is certainly an independent and effective judicial system that is a prerequisite for the citizens' confidence in the judiciary, belief in the rule of law, feelings of legal certainty and promotion of fundamental human governments. Despite yesterday's assessments of the invalidity of this document, I think we should praise the efforts of the Croatian government and the Ministry of Justice which created this document as comprehensive with the necessary measures to reform and adapt the judiciary to Croatia's entry into the European Union, but I would say the chief arrangements of the judiciary for our citizens themselves. A series of laws have already been passed in the past work of the Croatian government and this House of Higher Education, which makes it feel better. Here I primarily think about the data on the fixing of the grantines where we heard and we have feedback from practice that there is a shift, that the deadline for fixing the objects in land books has been reduced to three months today, and let's not forget because a better man gets used to it very quickly. Let's not forget that, recently very recently, in very lewd items the entry solution was waiting for two years. I would also mention here the adoption of the Law on Courts which addresses the question of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. This strategy underlines this problem and we can open here a debate and a question and the debate was when the laws were passed whether the envisaged solutions were best, whether they fully ensure the consumption of this essential human right that was guaranteed both by European conventions and our Constitution. The practice will show whether these solutions are the best, but certainly the actualisation of this problem itself, I believe, is a step forward and a constant repetition from day to day that this should be solved is a step forward, a step forward because slow justice is actually the greatest, greatest injustice. It is also this, this strategy, and by law already passed, a significantly enhanced role of the Supreme Court in unifying, in equating judicial, judicial practice, and I hear that we will also have before us a bill that will reduce the scope of the audit, which will actually ensure that we do not have how Professor Dickan said somewhere, because we have practices of the county courts that can be completely contrary to the same fact and legal basis of the adoption of quite different, different judgments and solutions. What I believe is most important in my opinion, which is what the Courts Act said, and what is repeated in this strategy is that education is a mandatory education of judges. Every day we need to learn and therefore I think, yesterday was kind of a little bit less with I would say the underpriced programme of the action of this strategy, in the chapter "Strengthening the rule of law and independence of the judiciary" where we are projected to strengthen awareness in workshops involving the issue of professional ethics, responsibility in educational programmes for judicial officials, professional duties and so on. It is clear that each education or education must in itself have part of the educational part, part of the education. In this sense, I do not mean raising children but developing a sense of responsibility, of responsibility for my work. Somewhere in this strategy, I read that it is necessary to encourage judges to use procedural institutes so as not to delay court proceedings. I don't think I'd say "encourage," but I don't think anyone should be encouraged. He needs to be educated. Why? A poorly educated, educated judge as in the end, and any other person, one who does not know enough, is not dependent and is not effective because he fears making a decision and takes a long time to make a decision. I would therefore say that, most importantly, the most important part of this strategy for me is the speech on the education of judicial officials and that of a permanent education so that we can do our job with quality and responsibility because, as I said yesterday, something needs to be done in a country where we have almost the most courts in Europe by the number of inhabitants, the most judges or we are very close to the top, the most administrative staff in courts and the most lagging and unsolved cases. Obviously something's wrong, and there's something that needs to be solved. Among them were many speeches on the rationalisation of the network of courts as about something terrifying, but first there is no objection that we have heard here that this Strategy, that this Strategy is brought by executive authority, that it does not consult anyone and so on. On the contrary, I personally participated in the "round table" conducted by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, Association of Judges. So I think the professional public has given their opinions all the time. Some of them, some of them agreed to this. Some have proposed measures that would be even more effective and better. So this strategy is discussed in both the professional public and the public. Therefore, I do not hold to object that the executive government is bringing it in a closed circle alone. As regards the rationalisation of courts, if rationalisation means an increase in efficiency. It does not necessarily and exclusively mean reducing the number of courts. It means reorganising the number of courts, so perhaps in some environments where they are too bulky and their separation and increasing numbers clearly and it is in the strategy here that analyses will be carried out, that it will not go quickly, that it is a long-term process. We've seen that in some countries it lasts 5 to 10 years. So there's no way they're going to be working fast and they're going to be working as a pilot program. The strategy of the document platform has been before. There was talk, nothing happened. What is good in this Strategy is that we have as a contribution to the Action Plan which clearly sets out the objectives, tasks, those who need to implement them, the necessary financial resources, therefore the costs and time needed, the time for their implementation. Here's how I end up with time in the end. I just think I should support this reform of the judiciary. She means we're dealing with problems. If we had recorded and proposed the goals... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55187	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55188	Mr. President, Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I am pleased that we have a strategy for reforming the judicial system with a plan of action, with the corresponding documents. Recommendation on the rationalisation of the network of courts, the development of alternative ways of dispute resolution and the strategy for the development of the information and communication system that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted at a session held on 22 September 2005. This Strategy reaffirms the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen the rule of law and establish justice as an effective, fair, legal, impartial and democratic way of resolving disputes. And despite the fact that, in the course of the debate, we have heard numerous disputes, denials and even ridicules of this strategy. I am pleased that the expert public shares the opinion of the majority in this House. Yesterday, in the debate, and today, colleague Lovrin mentioned a round table of the Scientific Council for State Administration, Justice and Rule of Law of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts held on 12 December 2005 where the most prominent and most invited representatives of the profession were positively manifested and supported by the adoption of the strategy. The strategy states that the existing constitutional and legislative framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Courts, the Law on State Attorneyship, the Law on the State Judicial Council, etc. is a good legal basis which ensures the independence of the judiciary. The process of elections, promotions, appointments and resolutions of judges and state lawyers also excludes the possibility of the influence of politics, legislative and executive authorities, i.e. that influence is reduced to the least possible measure. However, it is important that this strategy is also envisaged to upgrade, to complete mechanisms for strengthening independence, judicial independence. Thus, the judicial authority will be able, independently and independently from other authorities, to fulfil its constitutional task in guaranteeing the principle of rule of law. Therefore, one of the objectives of this reform of the judicial system is to develop instruments for further strengthening and protecting judicial independence, independence, impartiality and the security of judicial mandates. The creation of an effective judicial system is imperative of this strategy. The strategy provides for measures that will be possible to achieve this. These are primarily reorganization and rationalization of the network of courts. In general, the view of too many and inadequate and irrational networks of courts has been accepted. It will need to create a system of network courts that will be rational, but that will not diminish citizens' right to access the court. It will be necessary to determine the actual and local jurisdiction of individual courts differently. Certain solutions offer analysis and recommendations under the CARDS 2002 project. The reorganisation of the judicial network will certainly affect the network of state attorneys, as well as changes in competences. The reduction of outstanding cases in courts is also one of the important objectives of reform. Already, some of the measures have been launched, such as the redistribution of cases within the judicial system, from burdened to less-loaded courts. The law extended the powers and responsibilities of judicial advisers and increased their number. Authorised land library references have been introduced, expanded, and more powers have been given to them. A measure has been introduced to refer judges to higher level courts. Dispersion of courts from cases which are by their nature non-judgmental cases is also a measure of exceptional importance and significant shifts have been made there. Leaven procedures as well as part of the executive procedures have been transferred to public notebooks. It will be necessary to assess and decide which other types of cases would be possible to discharge the courts and to which bodies or services would be transferred. The length of the proceedings is one of the main factors of citizens' perception of the ineffectiveness of the judiciary. Over the long term, one of the fundamental human rights has been compromised, and that is the right for the court to decide on the right of citizens within a reasonable period of time. Despite the good legislative framework, the procedures are taking too long, and this strategy, along with the necessary legislative changes, also provides for a series of short-term measures to shorten the duration of the court proceedings. The next measure is the introduction of free legal assistance to certain categories of citizens who, due to their material and social conditions, cannot provide themselves with adequate legal assistance in court and other proceedings. I consider it an extremely important part of this judicial system reform strategy. Although certain segments of the provision of free legal assistance to citizens are governed by the Law on litigation, the Law on Criminal Procedure, and in certain cases by Family Law as well as some other laws cannot be talked about systematically developed and guaranteed citizens' rights. Under the applicable laws, free legal aid is required for citizens to be provided by lawyers, but this aid covers a very small number of citizens. The system of free legal assistance is subject to one of the conditions laid down by the Republic of Croatia in the accession process to the European Union. Therefore, the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance is planned to regulate a circle of persons who can exercise the right to such a type of assistance as well as entities capable of providing such assistance. They can be lawyers, certain associations, law schools, etc. The law will lay down a way and bodies that will approve free legal aid and regulate the supervision of the provision of these sources of revenue for that purpose. In addition to those measures and the objectives of this justice system reform strategy, it is stressed with the judicial process and the importance of strengthening alternative ways of resolving disputes. It also stressed the need to reorganise the judicial administration with concrete proposals for its transformation into judicial management. Finally, I will stress the importance this strategy gives to informing the judicial system as also a very important segment of the overall reform. The justice ministry has launched a series of information projects aimed at improving the efficiency of the judicial system. It started by informing the court register, trade courts that would facilitate the procedure for the establishment of companies and easier access to data from the court register. In the implementation of the land-booking project, all land-based book departments of municipal courts are informed and the process of digitisation of land books is under way, i.e. Their transformation into electronic form. The establishment of an integrated information system for judicial authorities is under way. This means the development of an information system for the management of judicial cases, which represents one of the most important and demanding elements of the information of the Croatian judiciary. The project is supported professionally and financially by the World Bank and the CARDS 2002 European Union programme. The main objectives of introducing this innovative solution to Croatian courts are to increase the efficiency of the work of courts, reduce costs, increase the speed of work, improve court procedures, and make information more accessible to citizens. The software will be able to monitor document collapsing from the beginning to the end of the court proceedings as well as the management of individual cases. My absolute support for this judicial system reform strategy as a document that brings a number of measures leading to increased efficiency of the Croatian judiciary, as well as adapting the justice system to European standards as one of the preconditions for Croatia's entry into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55189	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55190	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So when I listen to the debate in the Croatian Parliament about the proposed strategy or reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me to me that there are no problems here, and others say that the problems are insecure. This is the second strategy in three years. And reviews of the satisfaction of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies with the situation in the judiciary as a whole, and especially with the situation in the judiciary as a whole, are very bad. The work of courts and judges does not meet the needs of Croatian citizens, but neither does Croatian economy. This assessment is not controversial among us, because one of the conditions for entry into the European Union is the reform of the Croatian judiciary as a whole, so also the administration of the Ministry of Justice and the judiciary as a special part of the judiciary. That is why it is for me to debate on, and to reform the judiciary a national project that should be prepared by independent experts, to adopt it by consensus of all political factors and to implement it persistently and persistently. In fact, the establishment of justice as an effective and fair, legal and impartial democratic manner of disputes must contain a expressed component of an independent judiciary, which is certainly not a matter of one party or any policy. And now I am being quoted by my colleague Sesvečan as saying that the existing constitutional and legal, or legal framework, is a good legal basis for establishing the independence of the judiciary stems from the opinions of international experts, and also from this reform itself, it confuses me. Then what's the problem? Then what's the problem? It is undeniable, and this reform also says, that the Croatian judicial system, the system of courts, is based on the principles established by the international conventions of the United Nations and our Constitution established that the judiciary and judges are independent in the trial, that they judge by law, so impartially and objectively, that they are given efficiency. Because when you try to analyze wages, material resources, the continuity of functions, then our judges are on a very good European average, if not above average, especially countries that are in transition. The continuity of their function is also undeniable. So again, the question is, what's the problem? Here's my grade. The Croatian Parliament is in office, I have two mandates here, almost every law has been amended at least twice, and the basic laws have been amended five or more times. You could say that laws change into rhythm, rhythmically. We've changed the penal code five times. We still haven't established the provisions on economic crime. We haven't even fully entered the Penal Code yet. Let's take it in a row, law enforcement. We've changed a very important law three times, and we've changed it from the ground up. And look now, now you get in the executive law, and that's what we boast, that there are two types or two types of believers and two types of debtors. One of them will be dealt with as a matter of principle, let the notebooks hit the press and we'll deal with it quickly, because they're as easy as they are. But what about the single Croatian market? So we act, and all these, operate in a single Croatian market. This is a direct, direct impact on the unity of the market. Well, it's not just a matter of volunteering, so it's someone's will. If someone doesn't pay someone, that chain expands. And we know that in the Croatian state you do not pay now and in an increased number of traffic jobs. Then who are we going to protect? The ones that are easier to charge, so let's get rid of him or the ones that have a significant impact on legal charges. It's important that big dealers don't pay. And a state that doesn't pay, if it doesn't pay. She is the largest consumer of money in Croatia. Or let's look at the bankruptcy law, now it's in the process. The bankruptcy law now deletes all the provisions that allowed the assets of a creditor to be liquidated as a whole, as a whole, because it could achieve a project, a product. All these provisions are deleted because, as in that law, the objective of amending and supplementing the absolute right to collect claims is now envisaged. Okay, we agree, but then let's not wander. Then it's no longer our goal to protect a program in the company, to preserve that program and jobs, but to charge us for looking for a creditor. It's not all the judges' fault, it's not all the judges' fault. Our responsibility really exists here. Let's try to watch, say, now we've had a debate on the Law of Local Self-Government and the election of representatives. Well, the Croatian government has proposed legislation and asked the Faculty of Law for a national to exercise power in the representative body in Croatia. Is that a contribution to legal security or was it playing with us in the Parliament? This is where the information of land books is praised. Of course, neither can I challenge the need to inform land books. And that's a really good thing. But the problem of land books is not just a medium, but a discrepancy of land books and data in land books with a disaster. And the bigger problem is that in land books, it's not consistent with the real state of life of who owns it and what ownership relationships are to, in life, real life. So, by all principles, no change, no correction in land books happens without a solution. One more thing, if that's so good, let's change the law and let the state guarantee the correctness of data on land books. It's the sense of building a system. So what's in the public book, land books, the state guarantees it's right, it's right, so if I trust it and cheats on me in land books, I'll make up for the state. Let's get that principle into land books. There is no movement unless all the elements of both the legislative body and the administration in the judiciary and in the state have taken care of the continuity and system of the legal system. One of the big problems in my court of law, but in the court, not the administrative section, is that it's a closed environment or a closed circle. So we have ensured the independence of the judges, independence in the trial, objectivity, legal impartiality, efficiency and constant subpoena, but to whom the judges answer. Judges and the judiciary operate in a system in which we act and all respond in the society, to which the judges correspond. You're on your own! You're on your own! And the whole society suffers from the mistakes of the type Gospić or someone else. The whole company. So some responsibility, social responsibility not only must have a judge, and someone has to take it. How do you solve that?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55191	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55192	Mr. President, the Honorable colleague Leko incorrectly stated or corrected his incorrect claim when he found that under the new Implementing Law or amendments to the Implementing Law there are two types of debtors, i.e. two types of creditors. That's not true. It is true that there are two different executive bases, one is a credible id, and the other is an executive id and correctness and accuracy for the sake of it, this quote had to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55193	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55194	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, let me get involved in the debate on this strategy. I can say that I support most of the measures that are proposed in this strategy, especially the measures relating to the rest of the cases being resolved, the number of remains of the cases solved, and also the measures relating to the reduction of the length of the proceedings. What I cannot propose is proposed under this strategy, so these are recommendations for streamlining the judicial network. But I don't think they're good... And that their application, therefore in this way, if we look at this last plate that we have, will have a significant impact on our judicial system being available to our citizens, and I think it is very important that it be as accessible as possible. [[You don't understand.]] By abolishing some courts, some of the misdemeanor or municipal courts, we will come to the conclusion that the citizens will have some difficulties, so that they can reach the court itself. Therefore, the deadline is foreseen, for example. to abolish the criminal and municipal court in the city of Preloga in Međimurje County. That's how the locals would do it, for example. Kotoribes, instead of 20 kilometers [20 km] to Prelog, had to travel more than 40 kilometers [40 km] to Čakovec so that they could seek their legal protection or some kind of court service. I don't think that's good at all, that a citizen must therefore have opportunities as easily as possible and as quickly as possible to get to all that right. This, where I can pull some kind of parallel or you want a similarity to the state of our health system where there's been some sort of introduction lately, for example. certain participations or to the elimination of travel costs which is in some way a method of returning from people asking for health care which I also think is not good. So speaking of the situation foreseen for a number of years in Međimurje County, just to remind myself that the Međimurje County in Prelog there is also a Municipal and Criminal Court, that in the town of Čakovec there is also a Municipal, Violation and County Court or that there are these five circles on this first map so that on that second map which shows the results of this rationalisation, there are only two circles in the town of Čakovec would be only the Municipal Court and the Criminal Court, in the town of Prelog, there is therefore nothing more. I don't think that's good, and I think that we should actually apply exactly the main criteria that have been used in this rationalisation and which I don't think have been applied exactly in the area of Međimurje County. According to these main criteria, the analysis as a second point is mentioned the number of inhabitants and population density in the areas of jurisdiction of a particular court. So it is known to all of us that Međimurje is the densest populated area in the Republic of Croatia, that it has 162 inhabitants per square mile2, so only Međimurje has 120 thousand inhabitants in that small space, so I think that such rationalisation would make it difficult for residents to exercise their rights in court. There are also other criteria that, therefore, the additional criteria that are in favour of this, so that both the Municipal and the Criminal Court remain in the town of Prelog, and we also oppose the abolition of the County Court in the town of Čakovec. This is what the situation tells us, so in the city of Prelog, the Criminal Court, a court that has been acting for several years, in the restoration of the premises of the Criminal Court alone, the Ministry has invested a lot of funds, as well as many donors, businessmen have also invested a lot of funds to make the Criminal Court work under conditions that are very good for now, and the results of that criminal court themselves are very good. For example, only the income achieved in that Criminal Court last year was more than a million kunas, and the minister knows all very well, so here I am only going to publicly repeat that information. So I don't think there are any essential criteria that would make it possible for this Prelog Crime Court to be abolished, which is more than expected to increase the number of cases because the Goric border crossing soon opens a police station. Therefore, it is expected to increase the number of cases on that side. Also, the municipal court with which the grantovnica operates also has a large number of cases. I don't think there's any reason either for him to be abolished or for him to move to Chakovec. And there is certainly reason to improve the conditions in which the employees of the Municipal Court in Prelog are working because they are currently working under quite inappropriate conditions. There is also an observation on the conditions in which judges work in the County and Municipal Court in the town of Čakovec. We, therefore, in the County of Međimurje, and the judges and others rejoiced when we saw in the budget that 3 million kuna were foreseen for the reconstruction of the municipal and county court in Čakovec. But unfortunately, those 3 million kunas were transferred from 2006 to 2007. So the County of Međimurje is one of the few counties that actually has no court that would in any way work in conditions in which judges, here is Koprivnica-križevska, here is to correct myself, in which judges could work in conditions that would suit the business, therefore, which they do. So we don't accept this rationalization because we think that courts must also be accessible to the population, to the citizens. And especially in those areas where the number of inhabitants, density, population is the largest in the Republic of Croatia, and that is in Međimurje County. I hope, therefore, that these remarks will be accepted in the future and that we will still have a different solution. What I particularly welcome, therefore, is the intention of this strategy to reduce the length of court proceedings. So, the strategy says that some average in Europe is up to 3 years old, and unfortunately, we have a lot of cases that in our judiciary, these processes are very long in our case, that they're stalling, and that's a lot of simple cases. So let me set an example like this. So, the case or case that has been in court since 2000 has not been completed. And it is, therefore, that because it was the object that triggered the HT, Croatian telecommunications which charged or gave it, made an account to one user and he further proved by skill that he did not use these services. It's known, there are cases of a single number being called to a certain number in Hong Kong. The owner had no idea about it, so it was a break-in to that number and he made an account in three months somewhere, over three thousand kunas. The user of that number normally didn't want to pay that bill, so it ended up in court. In the first verdict, the verdict was therefore made on the basis of the skill of the fact that the owner had nothing to do with that account, that he did not do it, but that someone had entered his account. And the solution was to make up for the costs and beat that bill. Of course there was an appeal by HT. The second hearing was held in May 2005. The solution is, therefore, the same. The judge also made a decision that HT does not have the right to collect that account. It also has to compensate the defendant for the cost of this 6 thousand and 800 kuna procedure. Normally, after that, HT again filed a complaint and today this case stands in court. So our citizen is on the one hand, so damaged by being charged with a particular account. It's still damaged that he himself had to pay for the witches. This is not compensated on the basis of this solution, and on the other hand, we see that public companies are very effective at billing their accounts through enforcement. So we should pay attention to that too. So, before the court, everyone is equal, i.e., that before the court everyone, therefore, has at least the same length of this process. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55195	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55196	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is also this strategy of reforming the judicial system with a plan of action that is one form of continuity of former ministers, ministers, previous governments, and in this I would say that the current minister has felt what can be done to show once and for all that the lasting non-transparent values of the justice system in the Republic of Croatia that we want to create have no alternative and that they are looking for the right engagement of all of us. Of course, the seriousness of the reform also shows the debates so far, but also shows the virtue of speakers so far, with a wave of excellent lawyers, citizens who have practically felt the functioning or failure of the justice system, lawyers, former ministers. So I think it's precisely the advantage of this reform that she's agreed on in one reviewed way, that we can determine what the current situation is, but which way to go. What can be done in the short term, what can be done in a longer period of time, but the problems are clearly detected. Just because we have a 16-year-old independent state are also frequent amendments to laws and regulations, and what we want to stress is that the legislator responds quickly to new developments and challenges, new technologies. And what we, like this honorable House, have done to satisfy it, debated and passed such laws and regulations. Of course, the goals that are to be achieved are inevitable. Fair and secure society, that persons enjoy the legal protection of fundamental rights, that they want to highlight the fight against crime that comes first because they take action effectively in cooperation with other authorities as well. Because without the functioning of the system, the reform of the state administration is also one that can contribute to making the entire system effective and operational in the Republic of Croatia at all. And those who are sentenced to prison and deprived of freedoms in society are included through professional care and therapy. Care for every citizen and one who has committed a crime and who is in prison should also require certain therapy. There are fair fundamental rules for an effective economy, good and consistent legislation, but what I want to point out is exactly the continuation of setting up the workplaces primarily of courts because the court should externally give authority to the functions being performed. I just want to point out that there can be no better contribution to the resolution and strategy of this judicial system than just giving judges, but also officials and deputies to a particular court have excellent working conditions. It is just now ongoing and rebuilding of the municipal court in Split because when someone comes and sees how it is judged then every honour and praise to these judges, these notaries and even staff who work in that derutical building without climate, summer is hot, winter is winter, and such actions should certainly continue. Before that, the Municipal Court in Supetar, so Sinj and I can show that the very good connection between the Central Authority of the State and the local and regional community must result in these spaces being arranged and placed in office as soon as possible because these are the courts for these local communities. Legal protection is provided by independent judges and state lawyers, the system of their election has been made in a modern and sovereign way, but these things cannot be accepted at all and they are as common as they are with other institutions that have been accepted. The costs of court proceedings are reasonable, so people are increasingly assessing whether they can settle their dispute in a different way outside the court or use the entire apparatus of a court that should then certainly be expensive, justice is slow but accessible with a uncertain outcome. What I want with the digitization and settlement of land-marked states highlighted, which is indeed one major advance is what you can really get a copy of the register of commercial courts in record time. We are no longer talking about this because, as is normally settled, however, it should be pointed out because it is precisely the strategy that says education to everyone and those who are most needed. Of course, available to all is progress that cannot be avoided by the judiciary, an effective system in the service of the public. The Constitution guarantees the continuity of the judicial function, those who were once elected, only these new judges who were first named on the occasion of entry into court duty are named in time of 5 years and this is one achievement that we should constantly repeat because then it will be true I would say the scandal when a good judge goes to lawyers after 10 or 15 years. Now it's like a normal thing, it's also going to be the opposite way that many lawyers want to achieve a judicial function because it could have performed in a really modern way with good income. Also, the appointment of state attorneys because without these state attorneys, you can't think about how to keep going. Therefore, from the existing legislative framework, it is true that the legislative executive power is affected, that the judicial authority is disabled or reduced to the least possible measure because we should not forget that the Republic of Croatia is a small country, with a small number of inhabitants and that everyone knows that each person or family or friend and best man, but that does not mean that it is not put in the first place of expertise, morality and honesty because every most ideal system can be bypassed, but it is indeed reduced to the least possible measure. The independence above all implies that judges make their decisions solely on the basis of the law and on their conscience. The aim of this part of the Reform Strategy is to develop instruments to further strengthen and protect judicial independence, independence, impartiality, but also status and efficiency. What we say in terms of this Strategy is how to create an effective judicial system is how to reduce backlogs on unresolved cases. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if some other country that has a state of hundreds of years had social property, then apartments, so civil rights, I'm sure not that they wouldn't solve it as quickly as we do, but many would end up in the hospital and those psychiatric ones, and we bravely endured it despite... to one least possible measure, and that is why the result is uniform and the increased role of court practice. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] What I want to highlight is a special network of courts, of course, but exceptions should be mainly on the islands. It cannot happen that the island of Brac or Hvar or Rab, which is not even here in this map, and we are all sensitive to our small islands, our small towns and courts, because wherever the court is then guaranteeing the development of other administrations, expertise, economic development, but also what is said we want to respect the laws that we have passed, the laws on islands that must not go less than before. I agree the county courts are smaller and let them be... Courts and some may resolve not on the basis of their return, and some I would say conditionally light things again to the first-degree court but can, by means of a solution, alter decisions and thus reduce indeed one major backlog of pending cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also judicial rights, the President of the Court should be the main and most responsible and no one else, and then he forms his team on how to effectively solve cases, and that means from light bulbs, from water boilers, from dispatch, from composing documents, whether or not the orderly delivery is or not, and that education should be permanent and parmanent, and this is precisely the strategy that emphasizes the judicial academy very clearly and transparently, frequent seminars and education for judges who are now not allowed to be the reason why they are as excessive costs, of course and the influence of the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55197	Thank you very much. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55198	Your Honor, your Honor, Minister. Our course ideal is to achieve absolute rule of law and fully effective justice. In order to achieve this, I believe that it is necessary to define or agree that we have three strategic goals and that we should pursue three strategic goals. What is important is to consider whether this Strategy can meet the requirements for achieving these three strategic objectives. The first would be quality and stable legislation. The laws and other general legal acts should be the result of a rational process in which the results will be appropriate, consistent and easy to apply norms which will be equally understandable to those who bring them and to those who apply them and to those to whom this applies. Of course, here we have to ask ourselves whether, for example, in the last two years, we have achieved this strategic goal as a legislative body, whether we have passed most of the laws as a result of a truly rational process, whether these norms or those laws we have passed were understandable to us, whether they were understandable to those who should have applied them, whether they were understandable to judges, lawyers, and above all whether they were understandable and applicable to citizens. Since the vast majority of the laws were passed by emergency procedure, we can certainly face the fact that if it was a rational process in the adoption of these laws that it was a very short rational process, then we were very likely to pass laws that could not meet these other requirements and what it says and that we had to change several times in this short parliamentary internship of two years or that we had to give authentic interpretations or we didn't know how to apply it ourselves. The second objective should be a consistent and effective judiciary, so judicial institutions should firstly be highly qualified for the achievement of tasks they must fulfil. Judicial officials and officials should have adequate education, skills and training and the division of powers and work organisations in judicial institutions and logistics assumptions should be appropriate. Quality and effective work should be further raised. In addition, the level of public confidence in the judiciary and judicial institutions should be raised. I don't think we need any extra comment here. The third objective should also be to respect the results of the proceedings and the effective implementation of judicial and other decisions under law. The efficiency of the legal system is illusory if decisions are made in a legally prescribed procedure and they cannot be effectively implemented. Now, I invite you all to ask ourselves, for example, how many final court decisions we have that those concerned simply cannot implement, from some banals such as executions to bankruptcy, to working law proceedings where it is an obligation for some of the workers who are illegally fired to return to work and simply the employer not to return them. So, what these two previous goals would be for us if we did not ensure that simply what was concluded in the court proceedings would be applied or that those who were damaged in this and who received the right word can, within some appropriate time, be able to implement it. Let me now make one comment on this strategy that is very concrete. I think that there are good examples in the Croatian judiciary, and I think that this strategy should have highlighted good examples that are both by name and last name or by name or by court, or grantovnica or something else, so if we are already using English terminology, then those cases should have been quite certain to say that we have them and that in the light of some mirrors we will try to apply them or model them in some other courts. This strategy has two objectives. One goal is to make big courts efficient and the other is to make small vessels big, if I can say it briefly. It is shown that large courts are inefficient, and then the question is why should small vessels that have the moss be efficient turn into large vessels, and indeed whether the size of the court has some correlation with the efficiency of that court. My colleague Pavlic also spoke of the fact that we do have very effective courts. What is the problem of the Croatian judiciary is that effective courts are medium sized, but unfortunately they are geographically concentrated, so they are not distributed to Croatia by some other rule but are therefore geographically concentrated practically in north-west Croatia. I've spoken to a number of judges in preparation for this debate. They also believe that one basic criterion with a number of cases, with the number of inhabitants, with the size of an area covered by a court should, or should, be decisively, the effectiveness of the work so far. We cannot constantly reward those who are inefficient and constantly punish those who are effective in their work. Someone here talked about working conditions in Split, a colleague of Pavlic was talking about working conditions in Međimurje. Let me tell you about the working conditions in which judicial bodies work in Koprivnica. The judicial authorities in Koprivnica are among the most efficient in the Republic of Croatia. One year they're first, one year second, but here's the conditions for these judicial bodies. So the county court operates on two locations with one location, so its own space of 165 square meters. However, 220 square meters is in the municipal court building and is simply now missing three rooms for judges and missing several rooms for court advisers. Now, the municipal court has this problem that his county court is in his premises because if his county court wasn't in his premises, the municipal court would have enough space for its own purposes, but since his county court in his premises he can't simply have the space conditions, on other conditions that I don't even speak. The misdemeanor court is located in a building owned by the town of Koprivnica, where it has practically paid no electricity or water for almost three years, let alone to pay the rent. The County State Attorney's Office is located in a fourth rented space where a very significant lease is paid and the municipal state attorney's office operates on two locations and operates in a municipal court building and has one room in the County State's Attorney's Office building. Therefore, the judicial authorities in Koprivnica are currently operating in completely inadequate areas, or are lacking according to those standards that the ministry prescribes about 870 square meters of space. I'm not going to talk here now because I think you could all see for yourself the efficiency of the courts, right, we have these statistics. I think the Minister knows that, too. For example, our shop in Koprivnica is one of the most pressing. We're getting granite extracts right now. You don't have time to go buy your notes until you print a grant extract where they're not just on the new media, but it's about the fact that they're accurate data. So it's not just what my colleague Leko said that the paper books have been converted into a digital format, but are, indeed, books that have been completely updated. And I know that there are other granaries from that area, so northwestern Croatia also has very up-to-date books. But they have a problem because at this point they can't spread anymore. So they're more of their own, probably that upheaval will come to an impediment because they simply don't have room for either, or for the archives anymore. And it really is now the key question is whether this strategy corresponds to everything I've been saying and whether it answers that those who have so far been valuable and effective in such conditions in which they worked will either be rewarded or rewarded by those in the same conditions in which they worked were ineffective, so that they should be further encouraged and reformed. And another big problem, and I end up with the fact that, apparently, in the 11th and 12th months, the judicial authorities didn't get their transfers from the State budget and the debts were therefore accumulated for the last quarter.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55199	Thank you very much. Replica's respected representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55200	Thank you very much. Here I am, a colleague of yours. You encouraged me to the line because you repeated it over and over again, and you're talking about efficiency, about the rewards of some courts. This strategy, it's not meant to reward someone or punish someone by judges. It aims to ensure that all Croatian citizens have equal standing before courts and equal judicial protection. Highlighting here examples of Croatia's northwestern courts on book update, on the state of grantovnica, so I think we all know that tradition, land-book tradition and grantovnica in northwestern Croatia is something quite different than in the south of Croatia where such traditions do not exist. Where citizens are not neat by tradition and heritage, given how it was in which part of Croatia. What this state also needs is to ensure that the Ministry of Justice is equally effective in judicial protection and that land-booking cases are also given to those in the south of Croatia who have not had that happiness either because they were not in such a judicial tradition. So it's not about rewarding judges themselves because it's not about self-judgment but about Croatian citizens who, and those who have no luck and efficiency, should be made to make their court so effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55201	Reply to the replica, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55202	Well, I'm afraid, my colleague Lovrin, that you didn't understand me very well. I did not talk about rewarding judges although I made it very clear in achieving the goals that judges should be paid, rewarded, allowed them to be educated and that they should be evaluated in such a way. I spoke very specifically here. This strategy provides for the abolition of some courts and I was talking about it, and it is a Croatian practice that those who are good, who do not complain, who do not create problems are usually lifted or connected with someone else, is it not? So where there is no such legal tradition as you said fixing land books will get new, beautiful, large spaces, new advisers, new judges and, for example, here in northwestern Croatia, it is predicted that municipal courts and some county courts will be abolished. That's what I was talking about. That where good work is being done should be encouraged to work even better and, as I said in the introduction, we should all serve as good examples, not only have the Zagreb or Split County Court as bad examples. We do have good examples in the Croatian judiciary, and I think it's time for the minister to take a tour of them and show them. What are these courts, what are their conditions, and what are the judges doing well?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55203	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55204	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Ministers, however, it is one impressive piece written on some 70 pages, however, in an analysis of this is the number of shortcomings this Strategy contains. The basic strategy, the basic orientation of this Strategy, is certainly good and on my part every, really worth every praise. Of course I have to point out here that what is in our pre-election HNS program is published on the HNS web pages reminds me very much of this strategy of yours. That was so-called. A program for faster and better justice. So I have to commend it anyway. For the purposes of the debate, I think it is enough to point out a few of the key shortcomings that this Strategy contains, and the real need would be for the whole material to be done a little bit and a little more concrete. I'll start with the first one, and that's the frames. The judiciary suffers from many diseases, but if we were to diagnose what the issue of justice is, then we would have to answer the man. Any serious and profound reform of the judiciary will have to start and end with a man i.e. A judge, a state attorney or a court clerk. One of the perhaps most important measures to remove the unfavourable characteristics of the judiciary is the lack of the expertise of judicial officials and the lack of a promotion system based on objective indicators. Only judicial officials can truly reform the judiciary. The state and the social environment can only help them. There is no serious, true reform of the judiciary without improving the professional work and level of knowledge of judicial employees. It should come from a common finding that the judiciary has been systematically humanely devastated over the past 10 years, that continued additional education should be allowed throughout the working century. To this end, the government proposed the establishment of a Centre for perfecting judges and other judicial officials and predicted a whole series of workshops. But a system of motivation, competition, competitive spirit was not created, and then a system of rewarding and promoting is based on work and results. Only this system can be a motive for the adoption of new knowledge and skills by judicial officials. Regardless of the legal solutions, the current system of choice of judges in multiple duties is also marked by neptimism or lobbying of private branches. Each young judge knows that it is far more important for him to establish good social contacts with influential individuals than to achieve good work results. Unfortunately, it is the reality of the Croatian judiciary and it is a common known fact within the judiciary. In any case, a system should be created to rest on some of the following specifics. The continuity of the judicial function cannot also be guaranteed in relation to those judicial employees who do not achieve the lower threshold of the necessary quality and quantity in their work. Such judicial officials should either be removed from the judiciary or from senior functions moved to lower functions whose tasks will be able to successfully carry out. We have not noticed that judges have lost their jobs because of their poor work, and it is difficult to accept the conclusion that all judges work well and meet their standards in a legal and intended manner. We don't even have legal opportunities to resolve a judge who's obviously unquality. While the judicial market in the contest eliminates non-quality such an elimination system, for example, does not exist in the judiciary at all. A judge can condemn a man and directly charge him for everything his ancestors and his people have done over the past 500 years and thus judge not only outside the law but beyond the civilizational norms, but no one can change him for that reason. There must be a system of elimination of non-quality judges. At the level of county courts, a personnel department should be established. In the chairmanship of a court who may, if necessary, have his own offices in growing municipal courts. The Department of Staff should be in close contact with the department of training at county courts who would have direct contact with the judicial academy from which certain programmes would be ordered. It is necessary to create a unique training system for the entire period of the professional career of judicial officials. Today there is no system of training of state attorneys and judges. Judges cope in different ways, work on a system of attempts and mistakes, visit the courts and offices of older colleagues and try to obtain valid information from them informally, and in short they manage how they know and know. Coming to the training work, young trainees who have been training at the university in the rule of ex department by adopting mostly theoretical rather than practical knowledge are left to themselves and to the goodwill of individual judges. It is necessary to create a clear training program when performing a training course, but this time with an emphasis on non-resolving cases and mastering certain practical skills. To this end, it is necessary to create a unique guidebook for trainees both in the court and the State Attorney's Office, and a programme of practical workshops and even possible periodic knowledge checks after leaving each department of the court or the State's attorney's office for work in another department. Courts headed by the Supreme Court of Croatia should create a centre for the training of judicial personnel, a plan for permanent additional education of judges. Main State Attorney's Office analoguely to the training plan of state attorneys throughout the entire professional career. This plan should include certain types of workshops that should be passed and all judicial officials of a given profile, but, at the request of a practice that imposes certain new problems, should also create ad hoc workshops dealing with some new forms of crime and solving observed dilemmas and problems. We see that the strategy provides for a number of improvements, but this improvement is based on the goodwill of judges and state lawyers. It is a voluntary approach and it is a fundamental strategic error of this judicial reform. In order for judicial staff to be motivated to train, raise quality and create a healthy competition atmosphere, a system should be set up to promote judicial staff promotion based on labour evaluation and performance. In this way, we should enable the professional development of each judicial officer and create a sense of security of the career of the judge and the state's attorney for those who meet the requirements of the profession. On the contrary, it is necessary to create a system of selecting the best judicial personnel, a system of early elimination of the poor and already at the reception of the trainees or during the exercise internship itself, and, if necessary, for those staff who do not meet the lower acceptable threshold of compliance with all judicial obligations. Such people should be able to find a second job at an earlier stage. This will improve the quality of the judiciary, create the feeling that justice is the best of the best lawyers in the country. Those who do not meet the criteria are given a clear sign that they try to find themselves in some other activity. In order to eliminate bad and promote good, we need to get an objective indicator of someone's work and these indicators must be the basis for making human decisions. It is necessary to establish a system of continuous control of lower courts and state attorneys by senior courts and state attorneys and that, in the light of regular examinations of the file, both in the light of continued keeping of records with the senior court on acts issued by a particular judge or by the State's attorney of the lower court or of the State's attorney. In the case of a number of judicial institutions, there would have to be a system of elimination of assessments and objections per individual judge which system of records would later be the basis for taking a position on the possibility of progress of that judge. After someone becomes a senior judge in the short run, they are either senior or the State's Attorney's Office organises a deep review of the entire referendum and the overall work of the candidate judge on which a report that enters the personal file of the candidate judge as one of the decisive criteria for promotion. The promotion of personnel shall be carried out only on the basis of objective indicators of the work of an individual candidate. The resolution of the huge backlogs in the judiciary and ensuring citizens' rights to trial within a reasonable period of time is another lack in this strategy. This is the most visible problem of the judiciary that all citizens see. We see this problem as being given a lot of attention in this analysis of the justice system reform strategy. However, additional efforts should be made to remove the accumulated backlogs in addition to the measures envisaged. I'll be done soon. A number of measures should be taken to discourage parties for unnecessary trials. It is necessary for municipal courts in the county centres to establish specialised departments of labour law which would have exclusive jurisdiction in labour disputes. As far as the state is concerned, the state is the most common panic. When senior civil servants make a possible wrong decision, it provokes hundreds, sometimes thousands of lawsuits at municipal courts in Croatia. It's the same thing to take care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55205	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55206	A colleague of parliament said that education in this strategy is intended as, is left to the judges. So, just the other way around. This strategy also provides for the Court's mandatory education of judges as a condition for progress in the judicial career.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55207	Replica. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55208	Thank you. Well, here's a little replica for a colleague. She specifically argued that the HNS had announced something before this election campaign or during the election campaign its reform for better and faster judiciary. I must point out that this is a good reform because it is mainly prescribed by the one that was adopted and carried out during the coalition government. There are only a few small shortcomings in the sense that this government reform, therefore the former coalition authorities in the good part, at least the institutional and legislative ones, has already been promoted and implemented, and there is yet to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55209	Replica's reply, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55210	I thank my colleague for giving me the replica. In fact, it seems to me that there is simply what I said at the beginning, not enough to show the measures to which these shortcomings will be addressed. So what I said at the beginning of the presentation, the strategy is great, the goals are good. The lack is what I was talking about later, so personnel, ways, I don't know, court letters and calls, etc. So, all these things I'm about, progressing. In permanent education, what my colleague said shouldn't be volunteering, it must really be obligatory.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55211	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55212	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. A few sentences about the proposal, about the reform strategy of the judicial system, with an action plan bearing the date of 10 October of last year, and we are discussing this in early February. So I'm actually asking myself a question at all about the purpose of the debate, and we're not going to be taking part in the debate, which is probably going to be accepted this afternoon, or we have the right to decide whether or not we're going to accept it. We can't influence her, she's a government matter. However, at the end of the line, this debate should be used and perhaps try to say a few of its thoughts in general on the judiciary, on the judicial system, and then on this reform, agreeing with all those who have established it, concluded that the past coalition government has also begun reforming the judicial system. Too bad this government didn't continue, but here it may have been lost in some things for two years. If we were to ask a simple citizen about it now, and without eventually reading or allowing him to read this reform strategy, what should the justice system reform strategy actually bring, which is what they expect from our judiciary at all. So I believe that the majority of citizens would first say that they would like the court proceedings to be much faster than they have ever been before or what they are or what they will be, that they would want every citizen of this state to have access to the court, so the possibility of exercising their right. I believe that citizens expect the most serious crimes from different spheres to be quickly and adequately punished, otherwise punishments for perpetrators to be appropriate, expect trials to be fair, as far as possible, expect judges to be fair, impartial, to be unsuspected, to be responsible, to expect those judges who do not satisfy it to have a way and system to be very quickly sanctioned and punished in the end and to take away the right to deal with judicial activity. Does this justice system reform strategy make it possible? I'm very skeptical. Personally, I don't believe it, but maybe you should make it clear to the citizens that regardless of this document that we've been discussing since yesterday afternoon that for a long time they're going to pass until they have the judiciary as they're supposed to meet the standards that exist elsewhere. When I mentioned the right of a citizen to access a court, or any citizen, I might ask the minister, since she is here to ask why the Law on Free Legal Assistance, as it says in the final line and in the reform strategy, has not yet been before this House. As far as I know, the text of the law, and in its final form, exists, that certain remarks were made somewhere in September last year. I think there's enough time for him to come to Parliament procedure. And if I remember correctly, last week we were discussing a plan to adopt legal proposals and it seems to me that this law... The second quarter of this year, if that's not the case then please try to answer or deny it. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, it seems to me that regardless of all possible strategies relating to reforms, which relate to different policies, there is one discrepancies in the government. I remind you that in the last two years we have on several occasions delayed the application of provisions of certain parts of the Family Law relating to the advantage of the social care centre in courts, with one of the most important measures being the establishment of family courts in the strategy of protection against domestic violence. I understand, so I can also support that, that there is no possibility that, and the conditions, to form special family courts. Last year, when we discussed the Law on Courts, the State Secretary specifically said, no matter what family departments are not foreseen through the Courts Act, that such departments would nevertheless be formed. I don't know how familiar you are, but the citizens of January 1st this year have been having trouble achieving these provisions of the Family Law. In fact, only the Ministry of Justice has asked for a delay several times on the transfer of jurisdiction to courts, precisely because of significant, important and sensitive issues under the Family Law. Citizens from January 1st of this year are actually walking, or walking them from the welfare centre, or work, according to the courts back and in one part they still cannot do so. Last year, too, during the debate of the Law on Courts, we were assured that education was related to the takeover of these responsibilities from the Centre for Social Care and was very advanced, that there were no problems and that all, that the judiciary would be quite prepared for the reception of these cases. The court isn't prepared. I expect the minister may try to answer that and explain whether they will really stay in the family departments in regular courts, regardless of what the Law on Courts does not mention them as such. Furthermore, what seems to me to me when we talk about the education of judges that I consider to be one of the most important jobs in this overall adaptation of Croatian society to the standards of Europe, the European Union, I think that in one part of our judges have absolutely not been educated and I do not see that they have made a more significant step in this segment over the last few years. First of all, I'm talking about the problem of labour law in that part, let's say, which concerns issues of different kinds of discrimination. We adopted the Labour Act in mid-2003, in which they were clearly indicated between the other and the prohibition of discrimination, and it is clear how long work disputes should last, both in the first and second stages. It's been six months. Since the middle of 2003, the third year has already been going on, labour disputes have been going on for many years, sometimes not sometimes, but often there is no end or end, and especially in this section relating to the issues of discrimination in the workplace, workers have great problems in achieving their rights in courts, and I wonder whether they may have definitely given up working courts or at least special departments that would deal with this problem, but it also implies special training of judges, because in this part, it is also about respecting certain standards that we adopted as a country and, of course, it does not only apply the Labour Act but, for example. I'm going to mention two more of those laws, it's the Law on Gender Equality or the Law on Same-Sex Communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55213	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55214	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday in the opening speech, the Minister said something great about the backlog of the infringements, so I would like to note that there is an institution of work for the common good and that the Law on Infringements states in Article 45 that fines or fines of up to 500 kuna are replaced by work on the common good. And you see in local communities the most prescribed penalties for such violations are 200 kuna and then people accept that this institution works for the common good. This institution of general good work is not working at all, so the verdict is that it should work for the common good. That institution doesn't exist, it doesn't exist, and what happens? So it just happened that we have a law that doesn't correspond with reality, with reality. So there are even the costs of that trial that are often greater than the impediment, the very prevention that exists does not achieve its goal. The communal directorships that do a lot of work in that section and regularly file such misdemeanors actually work for nothing, in some ways their work cancels out and you see I want to ask one question. That's one example. For example, in Split, the most punishments of 200 kuna are being prevented, up to 500 kuna a man can choose whether to go to work for the common good, he accepts it, such a verdict, there is no such thing as a wolf load, nothing happened. So the question is actually, that's one example. In fact, if our laws are our laws, and since we are the Croatian Parliament which makes the laws, are our laws what we would say in Dalmatia is "a roach of pitura, a white figure" whether they are brought "perlafinta" or "perlafinta" which would be said below. So are these laws on the outside nice and what I know only and figure from the outside, and on the inside they're simply not applicable. Because we're coming up with a question that's very important, what's really the point of the law. Whether the law just wants to reflect the existing situation in a community or the law is passed and to change some behavior, the state, what I know in a society, the community in such a way that the law can then be effective. If that's not there, then we're bringing our citizens into a frustrating situation, because there's a lot in their laws and confessions. The laws are not about concrete people, but about abstract people, therefore, citizens, etc. as an abstract being he has various and diverse, numerous, countless rights. In a concrete life where we exist as a concrete destiny such as Marin, Ante, Stipe, Marica, Barica, these rights are not realised or difficult to achieve or the law is not working and what is called a double personality is born, the Humo duplexi and what I know and what is born is that the law begins to function not at that level of equality for all but begins to function in view of one fact and this is the worst of every society in terms of which it applies. If it comes to a different legal norm being applied to Marina Jurjevic or to someone else, then we are in a big mess, then citizens no longer trust the system, the state, I don't know what to call it. It's the worst possible situation that can happen and that's why I think it's very important that we do what we do, do what we do, be credible, and that we as politicians first of all ensure that, in general, all those in the service of the state, state officials, that the law applies to them as well as to all other categories of citizens, so to speak. It is simply that we are in the House that makes the laws, and we are, regardless of the division of power, responsible for how they are realised, how they are applied, because it seems to me that it is very much then that it regulates both citizens' thinking and some collective, mental constitution of citizens and nations in relation to a particular system, to a particular society. The other day there was an excellent Scorsi movie and on Croatian television it was shown, called "Bande New Yorka", there one of the main characters says, "All things should be done by law especially when the law is broken." So God forbid we get into such a situation that the law can therefore be applied in many ways or different ways, given only one fact, given the subject, so to speak, of the law. And secondly, what I said at the beginning, in relation to this work for the general good, which is one seemingly minor thing, but it points to something that exists in the law that in practice has nothing to do with, therefore, it has nothing to do with reality. And that's why I think this institution that exists in law that it has to be arranged, realised. That's why there are those in charge. Whether these are some rules on the application of work for the common good, etc. Because you see, on this example, you just see how complete, let's say, municipal services question the credibility of the justice system, some environment, etc. That's why, here, I wouldn't last any longer. I just want to say that there must not be in society this kind of discretion or discord from what's called theory and what we really live in, and that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55215	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55216	Mr. Jurovic, when you say what should be the point of reforming the justice system. What I am reading is that in the normal state, the purpose of every reform, including the reform of the judicial system, should be to strengthen the rule of law and ultimately to achieve a fair society. However, I am very skeptical that this HDZ government is capable of doing so, no matter how hard Ms. Osbolt tried. An example of my stated claim would be a lot, but I'm taking the final example from yesterday. What kind of legal state in Croatia are we talking about when a member of the government means not an ordinary citizen, on a television show on national television, so that there is no delusion...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55217	This, colleague Pancic, is a replica to representative Jurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55218	Yeah, well, that's exactly it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55219	Not an explanation and criticism and an explanation of some of the government's procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55220	So we're talking about judicial reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55221	Yeah. And you asked for a replica and got it to respond to the quote from the previous representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55222	Right, we're talking about the point. And now we're going to the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55223	No, you're going to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55224	That's right. So time can go on now, those remaining minutes. So when a representative of the government encourages a hate speech...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55225	What does that have to do with the replica of Representative Jurevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55226	It's very big, maybe in the former Yugoslav communist system it didn't matter, what I'm saying, but in the democratic system we live in, I think it has a lot to do with it. So, I'm referring to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, and last night's show of Croatian television...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55227	It's not a replica. Don't be a colleague. Don't be a colleague. This is neither a replica nor a correspondence nor in any way with a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55228	Look, I know you're here acting not as president of the Parliament but as party representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55229	I'm not acting and don't, stick to the line, fellow MP. If the representative asks for a word to respond to the quote, the replica, representative Jurjevic did not mention these allegations at all, which you are now replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55230	I'm not correcting the wrong allegations, I'm talking about justice...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55231	You're replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55232	...and the rule of law in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55233	You can't do it that way, it's not a replica. Be kind and realize it's not a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55234	In your opinion, it's not a replica, it's mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55235	It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55236	There's a very well-founded basis in what... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55237	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's not a replica, thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55238	I, unlike you, found a direct link between what I was saying and what my colleague Pancic was saying. Well, the foundation of what I was saying, maybe I wasn't understanding enough, was that all people should be equal in front of the law. We were politicians, I was just saying, those who represent the state, state officials. If a state official insults another on state television, no matter what a state official or lies or says he's a criminal...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55239	You didn't even mention...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55240	No, no. I did in principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55241	You're not. Well, you can't do it that way, but it's one play, maximum play.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55242	No, no, if that happened then it's for every conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55243	Don't do it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55244	Because it puts citizens in a different position given what they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55245	So do not do so, then, my people, so understand and understand. Don't play Rules of Procedure to the maximum.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55246	No, no. And the replica, Mr. President, the replica is not a correction of the quote. The replica is my opinion provoked by your speech or speech by some of my colleagues. I have to say whatever I want as a parliamentary representative that you didn't choose but my constituents.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55247	You can't say whatever you want because the Rules of Procedure say that a representative can ask for a word to answer the quote of the one who stated it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55248	But I was talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55249	You didn't state that quote or bring it out...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55250	Well, I didn't have a name and a last name, but everyone understood...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55251	Well, you can't go to the quote, you have to take it out. You can't talk about the tenth thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55252	Well, that's limiting my freedom in the middle of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55253	What kind of freedom do you have and what kind of restriction?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55254	Yes, that's right, my freedom. Well, that's a tough line, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55255	It's not abuse of freedom to limit freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55256	If in Parliament we can't talk about how they'll... outside the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55257	You may speak, but you should speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55258	So I'm talking according to everything...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55259	You can't speak until you get the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55260	I can, I can talk. Only you can not let me speak, I can speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55261	No, you can't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55262	That's different if you'll let me go, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55263	You can't talk. Thank you very much. We're going to a five-minute debate. My colleagues and colleagues, please don't interpret the Rules of Procedure that way. You're going with the corrections of an incorrect quote under a replica company. The second time it's replicated something that the representative who presented the basic exposure didn't speak at all, so it's replicating it. Don't do it that way. It's going to be a general nightmare, a general anarchy. It was created and last time it was the same when it was... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When last time a rep representative mentioned one of the MPs he didn't have in basic exposure, then you raised a huge amount of grace to it, impossible, not to say, not allowed. Don't do it that way. ... Club representatives of HSLS, DC, LS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55264	Dear President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. What makes us unusually happy at the club is that I am proposing in several places that this strategy is reform of the judicial system we are not bringing, not only because it is one of the political conditions of our entry into the European Union, but that it is above all a commitment to our own citizens and that is what I am saying that we really must rejoice, first of all we must have at the heart of our citizens' interests. In our opinion, the Strategy is also not a document that should present concrete measures or concrete solutions to address identified problems in the judiciary, the Strategy is, by nature, aimed at setting goals that are to be achieved in the justice system of the Republic of Croatia for a certain period. It may be short-term, medium-term or long-term. However, in some issues, the Strategy also provides specific solutions, i.e. specific proposals in which the debate is yet to be held. So in point 3. A strategy entitled to create an effective judicial system in this work lists the fundamental objectives that are to be achieved in order to achieve the effectiveness of the Croatian judiciary. It is also pointed out that these are the measures to be taken in order to achieve... the objectives of being the most complex and sensitive part of judicial reform in general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the text of the Strategy, one of the primary objectives is the implementation of structural changes, reorganisation and rationalisation of the judicial network, i.e. making decisions on which types of courts will be maintained as necessary, the number of these courts and their actual and local jurisdiction. However, some concrete solutions are already being offered. In short, municipal courts will take the trial in all criminal proceedings so that the county courts will release the criminal cases in the first degree. Such concrete proposals in our opinion in the club should not be part of the Strategy because they are presented before the footage of the existing state, i.e. complete and transparent analysis, reviews of all courts in the Republic of Croatia, and can lead to misunderstanding and... a number of questions that have finally been shown and parts of some debate, so we would like to refer, and this is what Ms. Minister knows about Professor Barbic's opinion and suggestion that he gave at the beginning of December of last year, if I am not mistaken, the Croatian Academy of Science and Art organised a roundtable on the strategy and reform of this judicial system, then he clearly and loudly says there should still not be much speedy work here than to see first of all the situation of the court in the region, the number of entities enrolled in the court register and the number of craftsmen, then the number and type of court proceedings being conducted, and then that analysis would be more acceptable and then we could give some more concrete solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, the following thesis can be established, instead of transferring all criminal proceedings to municipal courts, which represents an almost impossible mission of the conditions under which municipal courts operate today, why it is not considered that Croatia really needs structural change of the judicial network. It would also be necessary for serious legal reform of the judiciary to be created, it would have to create serious assumptions that the state itself reformed its position as a party in strong judicial proceedings and at the same consultation... has shown that, in fact, because the state has not yet properly determined the annual spills into the pockets of lawyers, lawyers over half a billion kunas and then you can actually have that different actors, that we are not all the same in this game, so then there are actually certain unnecessary differences between I don't know the lawyer, the judges, the state's attorneys, and what brings back the whole series in our opinion of negative implications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also all know that today the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is only partially carrying out its constitutional task, ensuring uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens, instead it is overcrowded with cases in which it judges as a court of second degree, i.e. as an audit court. Why is that? Obviously, between the Supreme Court and the county courts there is a large unfulfilled space that in most European countries meets an appeal or appeal court and, in our opinion and at the club, it would be a judicial... I should have relieved the Supreme Court of things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55265	Thank you very much. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55266	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So I'm going to say that this reform is commendable because something's still going on. For example. These backlogs are being solved in land-booking services because, well, it was amazing, in fact, it was normal to wait on ZK extracts for 6 months or a year or 2 years, to wait for a booking solution for the same 6 months or a year, but without that ZK cartridge you can neither get credit nor start any economic activity, without that ZK cartridge you can’t get any local or construction permit, etc. The digitisation has certainly improved the work of trade courts. Secondly, what I want to say is that poor public administration, poor justice harms citizens, damages the state, but also the economic race and living standards and what I said yesterday that reaching the rule of law as one Spanish, not Sweden or Switzerland, Australia or Austria would mean a certain and significant increase in gross social product. As far as we can discuss this, we can clearly polimise with this, but I would like to say that half-reform damages, half-reforms do not trigger Croatia, bad laws stop reforms and permanent changes to the law also encourage legal instability and so much Croatia must know what it wants with this reform, so much Croatia must have the courage to reform in which it is moving to the end. In the end, Croatia must also enforce its laws, not that these laws are true to last year's snow. Secondly, this merger of municipal and criminal courts, it's certainly fine. The abolition on the other side of the municipal courts I think is a bold solution, and the abolition of the county courts as indicated here may be a problematic solution. Which tomorrow will cause controversy between all of us and in the community we will only see this, but I fear that especially the abolition of the county courts will not bring good or that reduction of the county courts will not bring a good team more which such reform should follow or accompany with dozens and dozens of new legal solutions. Citizens in this country are most interested in the speed of trial, independence and justice of judges and the final price of judicial proceedings where judicial protection as well as health care will increasingly become a privilege for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to benefit themselves. Someone will say that my life in Croatia is being denied because we have about one and a half million new items every year. However, judicial protection admits it to me or is not rudely expensive. The citizens rightly doubt the independence of the courts. They think it's politics that dictates their work. Maybe that's how it was in the '90s. Today I am afraid that the dominant position is taking over so the dictatorship I dare say capital because no one will convince me that the book at 200 hectares of tourism land in Rovinj could only pass, or she in Vrsar at 150 hectares or she two, three months ago Laguna, Novigrad in Novigrad. I'm saying the capital here played a very high role. Or, let's say, this arbitration council at the Chamber of Commerce that decides that Liburnia's worth a billion kuna is transferred to the fund, home, etc. So there is still something rotten in that state of court in the Republic of Croatia. What's certainly amazing, regardless of what's going on for the better year after year, it should be acknowledged that our courts have absolutely no obligations in the last few months. That's actually embarrassing. They don't pay these material costs, I don't know paper, phone, repair of copy machines, computers, etc. Without that, the judicial credibility will be zero. The Ministry's gonna do a hundred things right, not this one, and it's like he's not gonna do anything. And that's why that case I started yesterday, and now I'm done, it's got to be solved. The budget must not be a brake to the functioning of our courts. What's certainly interesting what Mr. Radin spoke of yesterday is the constitutional law and representation of judges of other nationalities. That might be even less of a problem than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55267	Thank you very much. A SDP representative club respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55268	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague! Is this government's strategy that she gave us and what we've been discussing for two days is actually her curtain? Does this government really want a strong judiciary? Is it possible, then, in such a finding of events, if we create a real one with intellectual, material forces, but, above all, that a strong judiciary is wanted, whether in such a judiciary the prime minister could issue orders to the public as part of the judiciary. Would in such a situation if we wanted the strong and strong judiciary of the state again become the biggest debtor and once again generates internal indifference. The blockade is crafts, businesses, companies that do business with the state. Recent research, any other administrative act that speaks of concession and building permit, is suspended in the administrative court and transferred to the judiciary. Does the government really have a serious will then? Does the government have a serious will when leaving the courts again? We stopped that once, and now the courts are in charge of the post office again. Courts carrying out the tasks themselves must be subject to enforcement. It's a reality. The strategy is about something else. The strategy speaks of the state within the judiciary itself, does not talk about this environment and without it there is really no real reform. The reform did not begin today, neither yesterday nor will it begin with this strategy. It began with the Constitutional Court's decision on 15.3.2000 when we created such a mechanism of selection and DSV and their complete independence. Of course, the public in every democratic society supports the independence of the judiciary, but it must also be corrective and then we hoped that it would just further upgrade that system and that this strategy would provide answers to these questions. Not that it did not but amended the Law on Courts which rejected all amendments of the SDP which had just gone on that trail to strengthen the position of the judiciary in the sense that better their control but equally objective criteria of promotion and simple abandonment from the lines of those who cannot meet the high criteria. Here, in the strategy we're talking about, I'm just going to give examples. The strategy is about how to reduce the network. On the other hand, we have a fact that small courts are being opened. Well, then, one thing's said and the other's done. There's no question here about further capital investments. For two years, it was lost for a building that was secured during the coalition government in Split, nothing moved. The judges were supposed to be doing it a long time ago. The criminal reform has given up absolutely. How can we establish the ultimate goal here that is well-drawn just and secure society when what disturbs our citizens today is that all the culprits especially the aggressors were not sanctioned here for what they did. There is no further to this strategy and it is a cancer wound still in our system. There was something going on here, let's see what's going on with it, but further on about economic crime. There's not a single word. It's about phase three and now there's no more mention of economic crime, and here we are starting with justice. We started with justice when just after the Administrative Court condemned the Prime Minister for not answering and violating the Information Act, he was no longer the President of the Court. That's the facts. Then move on. As we have already begun in a tone of righteousness, it would be just and worthy of our conclusion. Well, then, this reform is about the end. What the people think of the performance best tells you is the prominent monthly of the Bank as the public perceives, "Who doesn't pay 100 kuna turns off his electricity, who stays in debt to a thousand kunas will end up in prison while he whose debts grow millions can sleep peacefully." So much for justice and for this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55269	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55270	Thank you very much. Mr. President, counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic has presented a whole series of incorrect allegations, but here I will only be one to show myself and it is not true that the prime minister from the executive office issued any orders for the state's attorney's office. On the other hand, the prime minister as well as any Croatian citizen, in the event of a suspected crime, has the right and the duty to initiate such proceedings by criminal application.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55271	Second correction by the respected representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55272	Well, dear colleague Ingrid here finally said that in this strategy there is not a word about capital investments, in fact, the whole strategy and everything that is said about it is actually about capital investment, how Croatia can gain a fair and secure society. If you think capital investment is the opening of elevators then that's not in this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55273	For the PGS Club SBH... Honored representative Željko Pavlic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55274	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, allow me, on behalf of the Club of Regional Parties of the Primorje-Goran Alliance of the Slavonian-Baranja Croatian Party, the Međimurski... I hereby state our opinion on this strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our Club can therefore support most of the measures aimed at reducing the number of pending cases and the length of the proceedings presented in this Strategy, but we cannot support the proposal to streamline the judicial network because it is not in the spirit of agreements signed by our parties several months ago and among other things, it is said that our three parties consider it necessary to achieve the following objectives: to launch legislative initiatives that will result in full decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia, to propose real possibilities for defocusing the authorities by moving individual ministries, government offices and agencies, public business headquarters, institutions and so on. With this proposal, the recommendations of rationalisation in our opinion are going in the opposite direction, direction of centralisation and concentration, so in this case, the judicial authorities in some particular centres. So that's what the data tells us that currently in Croatia there are about 250 different court cases, and in order for this rationalization to bring that number down to around 105. What we don't particularly support is the reduction of the number of county courts to somewhere around 10. This would leave many counties, including Međimurska in the proposal without the County Court. We don't think that's good. So that we should continue to move towards further decentralisation and deconcentration of government in the Republic of Croatia. We also think that this kind of rationalization is going to take place. by reducing the number of courts to compromise the principle of accessibility and accessibility of citizens to courts. So ultimately equality in front of these courts in all parts of Croatia, which we don't think is good. For example, a citizen will certainly not be in an equal position to exercise his right before the court if he will have to go to the City of Čakovec, which is 40 kilometers away from Kotoribe, for example, or to do so in a Prelogus that is much closer to him. So we think that, in that sense, we need to think a little bit about this rationalization. We accept, therefore, that this is a recommendation and we think that there are very still open opportunities for the abolition of the municipal, municipal and criminal court, for example, in the Prelog, not to, for example, the abolition of the County Court in Čakovec but therefore that the system itself works in such a way that legal protection and rights of the court are accessible and accessible to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55275	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55276	Here I am correcting an incorrect quote from my colleagues, Pavlica, who said, "So will Međimurje County be left without the County Court." That's simply not true because it doesn't say anything in these recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55277	For the club HSP, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55278	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Finally, on behalf of the HSP, several principled remarks as the Strategy for the reform of the judiciary system, the Assembly only takes note of whatever that means. So so far, in Croatia, like this Strategy, countless national programmes, plans and strategies have been adopted. The amount of this text, as well as the infinite list of goals never achieved, make a significant contribution to utopian thought in the Croatian Parliament. These texts are usually accessible to everyone, often very funny, but with one simple message to the Croatian people about the great stretch between what we want and what we can do. Therefore, parts of these strategies may make the competent authorities available to Croatian citizens at the popular price of 29 kuna in cooperation with which the daily list should be made available to Croatian citizens. Such a fate of all the strategies so far stems from the circumstances that have not been adopted by consensus of all parties but are usually an act of one political option which, of course, the next authority does not have to implement and does not normally implement. During the last government, the adoption of strategies and national plans culminating in the publication of an entire library of the very pretentious title "Croatia in the 21st century" which is now strategic-planish snow. Today, a rather derelict project exists only as an unscheduled website with the latest news since 6.11.2003, as the government adopted a proposal for a Croatia strategy in the 21st century – tourism. A strategy for reforming the judicial system has been proposed, in this sense the HSP Club as well as any previously adopted without consensus provides for a very short-term fate. The main starting point of this Strategy is that everything is good in the judiciary and the normative-legal framework and the situation, but that everything needs to be changed and that there is still no knowing how and when it will change. I will only mention, for example, Chapter 3 creating an effective judicial system where the effectiveness of the judicial system might not be achieved by reducing the number of courts. According to this Strategy, this dilemma will solve one analysis under the "Cards 2000". Twaining project" with Finland, and this project plans that we together with the Finns make an analysis of the geographical location and area covered by the court, the number of inhabitants in the area and the burden of the court in view of the number and type of cases. That information must be provided by the Ministry of Justice and the State Statistics Office under official duty. In the entire text of the Justice Strategy, it is unacceptable to use foreign words and terms which are from business or bussines environments or many company miles such as when, back lock, judicial management, court management, cash flow management etc. etc. In our court, at the very least, the text that wants to be a national strategy is not appropriate to deliver to the national legislative body with such a dictionary. Given that this strategy also provides for some measures, such as amendments and additions to the Executive Act, the sale of seized assets by foreign private companies and other strange measures that refer to rooted changes in the judicial system. It is questionable whether anyone has seen this strategy in relation to the basic constitutional settings not only of the judicial authority but also of the fundamental provisions of the Croatian Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55279	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55280	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So the Croatian Peasant Party Club, as well as all the representatives' clubs in this House, think that the reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia is absolutely necessary. Yesterday in our presentation, we said it was the most important reform because without the functioning of the rule of law there is no development of the Republic of Croatia, there is no development of any state, and for the functioning of the rule of law, the assumption is a functional, efficient, effective judiciary. So, both this strategy and the reform, we have assessed it has outlined good goals, and in terms of setting targets, indeed, no one has any objections. Our goal is to gain effective and fair and impartial judicial authority and impartial justice. Of course it's a matter of measure how we do it. At this point, I don't think it's at all controversial that we don't have any, we don't have any efficiency, so if we're going to be realistic, and if we're going to be honest with ourselves, we're going to say that we don't have an independent judiciary. The independence of the judiciary is, above all, evident in the way judges are appointed, but in our case, it is particularly important to have a strong responsibility. We agree that attempts have been made to find a way to ensure that the independence of the judicial authority is as secure as possible from the influences of policy and political power in particular. However, I think we should consider whether or not we have succeeded. We know the judges are appointed by the State Judiciary Council. The law says the State Judiciary Council is an independent body. But that's exactly the way it is. If this is the State Judicial Council appointed by parliament, the Croatian Parliament shall appoint the majority of hands, of course, depending on political power at that time whether it is the State Judiciary Council then completely independent, and it shall appoint judges. Does such a body appoint judges who are immune from the influence of political power. It is particularly a matter of strict responsibility and yesterday we explained it and we said if there are knowledge and if the Croatian public knows that there are actually judges who specialize in the release of objects into obsolescence and those objects that are very serious and there are no tight responsibilities, so that is enough alarm that we need to consider the issue of tight responsibility. Without the strict responsibility of the judiciary, there is no efficiency of the judiciary. Of course our imperative is to try to find solutions that will lead to speed up the process. We still have a million-and-a-half old unsolved items. This strategy tells us that judges will be encouraged to solve old cases. It's simply not possible, because it's the obligation of every judge to settle their wages and those old items. However, however, as many of these old cases are resolved in a policy that leaves open space for indifference, where indifference is increased from day to day, of course, to new cases and complete accumulation of courts, and thus will not be achieved in efficiency. We haven't even thought about the delivery issue. With the experience I have in the work of the courts, I know that the issue of delivery is a very serious problem in the slowness of the proceedings itself. I was in a situation where I also offered my delivery guy who would go from hand to hand and deliver because the courts had no means of mailing. So people live in a system where it's very easy to cover up their residence where because of a glass of brandy and a couple of kunas refuse to show delivery, and showing delivery delays procedures and procedures cannot be ended. The further problem is certainly court practice. The strategy tells us that it is going towards equating judicial practice, but the overall measures contained in the strategy do not guarantee that we will quickly come to justified and necessary objectives, which is the efficiency, justice and impartiality of the judiciary. Such a strategy really cannot be supported by the Croatian Peasant Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55281	Thank you. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55282	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, after a long debate on this strategy, I do indeed hold that we could agree that it is a comprehensive document, a clear statement by the Croatian Government, as well as by the Ministry of Justice to tackle and to present to us the objectives, the strategic objectives which, according to the plan of action, are precisely defined as short-term, medium-term and long-term measures and programmes which aim to resolve the situation in the judiciary, which we all here have identified as not good. I don't see why they would object to such a document, why they wouldn't support it for the reasons that this document provides basic goals, it sets general objectives, it analyzes the existing situation, and it proposes measures to implement the objectives set out. It seems to me from this debate that we have heard that actually no one can object to some measures, can not object to the general objectives, which is a fair and secure society, legal protection provided by independent judges and state lawyers, the judiciary as an effective system in the service of the public. No one can object to strengthening the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. No one can object to the objective of creating an effective judicial system. It seems to me that no one could object to even strengthening the role of court practice, evening it and strengthening its application. Also, the free legal aid provided for in this strategy and promised by the government that the bill would be before us. Also, I think we all agreed on the need for education and education and education of our judicial officials. Because again I claim that only an educated and educated judicial officer can then be both effective and independent of anyone, because he will not be afraid to make his own decision and he will be able to make it within a reasonable time. Therefore, personally, and to us in the club of representatives, it seems to be a very important measure, a measure of education, a very important measure of learning the responsibility of judges, however strange it may sound. But it really needs to be taught all the time about responsibility, someone's responsibility for the work that's done. And finally, let me also say that the most controversy here has caused the proposal, i.e. a sign of the reorganisation of the network of courts and its rationalization. Rationalisation clearly with the debate conducted, with the recording of the situation on the ground certainly, as it is said, with an analysis of the historical, traditional, cultural, geographical specificities, the specificity of our country, it is certain that the court does not also ensure the availability of the courts to every citizen in each place. Because an unquality court doesn't mean good legal protection no matter how close it is. But here's the Ministry's hearing. We also have the results of the debate from the field. There will certainly be talks about this reorganisation, and about it, the territorial organisation itself cannot be spoken of before the jurisdiction of the courts is well considered, but it is determined whether the county courts will remain only appeals courts, whether all cases and those of small values and those for which only fines have been prevented, or whether they will be left to the authorities of the state administration. And that's all the groundwork for then one quality debate on rationalization that will definitely be here in this House. And in the end, I'd say one more thing. Statistics are statistics. We can have good statistical results, and they don't really mean anything. We also have good assessments of the European Commission and European bodies, but these are documents that can make us happy. What we all really do here, only when we can be satisfied, is when our citizens have a perception of justice and justice that is just, that is available and that judge within a reasonable time, just and fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55283	Thank you. No more reports. ... And where are you? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't mind if you guys talk, but you didn't sign up. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I'm not a writer, that's what I'm supposed to do. Here you go. You've announced that you will, but you're not... And you were yes, but you didn't sign up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55284	Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think we should finally say that we all agreed that a strategy in such an important element as judicial reform is necessary. In fact, the strategy defines what it wants, can and wants to do. The strategy should also say when it will be done and who will do it. All that stuff in this document actually stands. And this strategy, assessing the elements of the individual part of that strategy, is, in one way or another, working as an action plan. What the strategy lacks is a list of priorities. Namely, setting goals, such high goals as this strategy is set, in itself does not only talk about what the promoter wants, but also whether he really intends to achieve everything he wrote. If the objectives are such that they are within the time limit of the work, and that deadline is another two years, that they cannot be achieved clearly, and that is obvious, the question is what is actually the promoter except for courage, desire and will to go into the job, which the Proposer offers. However, this strategy still offers a desire and hope, which is more than we had before. Justice and independence of the judiciary are the two key elements discussed in this strategy, which we are talking about all the time when judicial reform and justice are being discussed as such. Justice is, can be defined so that before that court and before that law we are equally elected in this House, that we are treated equally, regardless of our ethnic background, regardless of our material status, regardless of gender, no matter what. A practice which, of course, is not described in detail in this document, said that in this House, sanctioning economic crime as we promised hundreds of times in hundreds of times neither implement nor intend to implement it. So that element of righteousness loses its credibility. The second element is independence. The independence of the court is most often interpreted so that no court ruling can comment, which, of course, sucks. That doesn't stand. Court decisions can be commented, there's no reason not to comment. Independently, it should consist of that the court cannot be affected. Both of these elements are based on the objectivity of the court's work and trust. Every scandal, every judge of Lozin, every judge of Gospic who judges as he judges, undoes all the good that has been done in thousands of court proceedings by thousands of judges in Croatia. Until the judicial authority and the mechanisms of functioning of the judicial authority sanction such a thing will be difficult to trust with the best intentions. But the system is obvious, from that circle the system clearly cannot get out alone. He didn't even get into it. Politics was a big help to him in the '90s. It's time for politics to pull him out of that vicious circle and make cuts that the system itself cannot make. Politics would thus confirm its credibility. Of course, and these kind of declarations, I have to say that this is a declaration, actually, and these kind of declarations, but also concrete moves to sanction people who really don't belong in that system. All in all, the HNS Club will support such a strategy because it offers something that is better than the present situation, with the appeal to reconsider the possibility of establishing working-law courts or at least working-law departments because it is an acute issue, the question of which people who come before courts depend on survival from today to tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55285	Thank you very much. There aren't any more representatives' club to sign up for. So let's go to the final review of the Justice Minister, Vesne Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55286	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate and on all suggestions, remarks, suggestions. And let me answer some points. I'll do what I said yesterday. This strategy is indeed a strategic document for the implementation of the Croatian legal system reform policy. And this strategy very clearly contains a plan of action, concrete measures, clear deadlines for implementing measures and therefore differs from all the other strategies adopted so far. She's not abstract, she's very specific, very measurable and can be controlled at any time. And I invite you to take a table that is at the end of the strategy where exactly the deadlines are listed and control our activities. There have been various assessments of this strategy, from those very commendable to the thesis of the HSP Club, that it is the worst of all the strategies so far. So let me tell you something. A few months ago, when this strategy was made, we went into a broad debate about the very content of this strategy. The first evaluation of this strategy was given by the general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and supported by this proposal. The meeting of the Economic and Social Council also welcomed and supported this strategy. Union centres that discussed this strategy at their forums also supported this strategy. The employers' association discussed this strategy and supported it. The Competitiveness Council also supported this strategy, and in December last year the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts gave full support, assessing it as the most comprehensive document ever made. Finally, the European Commission welcomed the adoption of such a strategy in its latest report of 9 November. So, if it hadn't been for those positive assessments, surely the government wouldn't have adopted this strategy, and I wouldn't have dared come to you with this strategy with parliamentary representatives for consideration. I never intended to compare what was done in the last term, which was done in this mandate, but now let me just for the correctness of some facts. Yesterday, counterpart Jurjevic said that land books, with land books reform, started in 2002 and that it is not true that the land book reform began only in 2004. That is correct, with the land-book reform started in 2002 when a contract was concluded with the World Bank. The loan was at 6m euros. However, I will only read the World Bank report that was adopted in late 2003 on the state of the land book settlement project. "The World Bank Mission Oversight has estimated that the Ministry of Justice did not take responsibility in 2003 for its part of the land-booking project." Your entire report is on the table, so you can make an insight into it. Of the 6m euros the World Bank gave to fix the land books in 2003, so a year after the project was made, all 10% of the money was spent. In 2004, I was welcomed by a negative assessment of the World Bank and a request to withdraw all funds. The World Bank still gave us one more chance, let go of our resources and watched us solve things. We used the funds, all the grantshops informed today all the grantshops, all 109 grantshops there, everything on the internet, and the land book reform is in full swing, as can be seen by the results. And by the end of this year, as far as land-book reform is concerned, we'll all be left with 0 behind. All data will be recorded, all data will be verified and we will be able to access the merger of land books with data from the catastra and form into what is called an electronic land book. So for the sake of correctness, I had to say this. The the thesis that the state is a crazed panic is true. There's nothing to hide. But when did the most disputes come before the courts by the state? It was in 2003 that the state generated over 300 thousand new cases in courts, and it was because of the non-compliance with the collective contract rights, the rights in the area of special state care and the rights of police officers. And those items need to be solved as well. There have been objections to the overtime of judges and courts. And today this overtime is being challenged. I'll remind you, I have here a rule on overtime in courts signed by my predecessor in 2003. The rule is called, this is how this rule introduces overtime in courts, the plan is called Hercules. The start of the Hercules plan was in 31.12.2002, at which point the number of items was one million and 240 thousand. A year later in 31.12.2003, the number of lags increased to a million and 500 thousand lags. This was the result of the work of the Hercules plan that was supposed to cut back. I will tell you, last year, that is, last year, so in late 2004, the trend in the growth of the case was stopped, and soon we will publish the first data, for the first time in the history of the Croatian judiciary, and I think that next week we will have complete data, and then we will publish them, so without this plan, Hercules, we started to reduce serious backlogs. Let me tell you something, there have been proposals and criticism on the work of the court's work control. The control of the work of the courts has also been according to previous Laws on Courts, however, this mechanism of control of the work of the judicial administration has not been used too much. We are the new Law on Courts, which this Parliament has adopted, introduced an institution of a judicial inspector to control the work of the judicial administration. I must say that already in 2004 and 2005 we have taken a number of controls on the work of the judicial authorities, administrative supervision and I will remind myself of some cases we have discovered, the case of Brač, or the case of the President of the Supetar, the case of Trogir, the President of the Court has been resolved, the case of Makarska where any irregularities by the President of the Court have been resolved. All objections to the work of these courts were at the ministry in 2002 and in 2003, however, they were not treated. In 2004 and 2005, these court presidents were relieved of their duties after re-supply, not on the political line, but because of their unhappiness. And we come to questions about the work of the Administrative Court. Here it was said that the President of the Administrative Court was removed for condemning the Prime Minister. It really doesn't matter. The administrative court has four years' backlogs and cases from 2002 have not yet been deployed to work, therefore the control of the Administrative Court has shown that the president who worked at the time was not properly managed by the court and that is why I chose the one who offered the best work programme and that programme will also be closely monitored, it will be seen whether it is being implemented. Here was a special issue of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the Law on Free Legal Assistance was prepared and it is already passing and the bodies of the Government and should be adopted in the first quarter of this year. When it comes to family courts, there is really no point in opening more new courts, but as you could see from this Strategy, the strategy is going towards the specialisation of judges through the judicial academy system and the judicial academy system, at least it has adopted a new Law on Courts and will be formed in large courts by family departments, and in smaller family judges, so is the working and legal departments. As for the very transfer of cases from social centres to courts we contact them daily, things are working now, and the judges have passed the education and there are no bigger problems anymore. And now let me tell you more about rationalizing the network of courts. As you could see from this plan of activity it is the only long-term measure and it will be implemented for years. The process of reorganising the network of courts is not simple work, but it needs to be started. Why? Because Croatia is one of the three countries with the highest number of courts in Europe, Croatia is one of the two countries with the highest number of judges in Europe, Croatia is the state with the highest number of administrative staff in Europe and Croatia is the state with the highest number of delays, judicial backlogs in Europe and this absurd should definitely be resolved and we think that this rationalisation as we first set it we are going very carefully, the merger of criminal and municipal, some misdemeanor and some municipal courts and those who have one judge, an insufficient number of cases. We will see what the "pilot project" results will prove to be of this merger, we will report on it to Parliament and we will make decisions together step by step. I'll just say that's where Finland was mentioned. Well, Finland has spent more than 10 years rationalizing the network of courts. Austria started five years ago, and it hasn't finished yet. Therefore, this is one measure that will last for many years in Croatia and that must really be considered very well before every next step is done. I think that this strategy, however, provides for a whole series of very concrete measures to increase both efficiency and independence and independence of the judiciary, measures that are within it really concern the resolution of all the backlogs, which have accumulated in recent years, to reduce the duration of judicial proceedings, to modernise the judicial administration, especially by introducing an integrated system of judicial files management, to introduce a new system of free legal assistance, we have put a particularly high emphasis as you might have noticed, and in your discussions you pointed out the development of an alternative way of resolving disputes and what is very important to the new system of completing judicial employees within the judicial academy. The fight against crime, particularly organised crime and corruption, greater openness and transparency of the judiciary, are all the measures that will be taken, and new laws will come to you in this regard, but these laws will also have the implementing elements very clear, so there will be not only perfect laws with very poor implementation. So I will conclude that this strategy is a fundamental document already being implemented in many parts. And here is a public policy based on strengthening the ability of the Croatian judiciary. I thank you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55287	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55288	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a respected minister who said the position of the Croatian party club is right that this strategy is one of the worst strategies. We didn't say that, but we said this, the strategies need agreement so that we don't have a dead letter left on paper, as it happens. We have a lot of strategies, they don't work out. Because by changing political options in power, a new one writes its strategies and everything remains a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55289	Second Amendment, the Honorable Representative of the Mato Church. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55290	Mr. President, according to Ms. Minister, the Ministry of Justice has not progressed enough in the past period for the former government. In fact, she said it didn't do much to reform land books. And even if the World Bank said in a report for 2003 that that's the case. It's not quite like that. In fact, the World Bank has, in a certain context, listed only a part of it, and I'm going to say this. I signed that asset contract. It took a lot of effort to secure the funds, to work out a project. You've come to prepare a project. Of course, it was much easier then than when it started. Therefore, in the very beginning, funds cannot be spent on the project. It's just being spent in the final phase and so on. Therefore, I am pleased to see progress in handling land books, but this approach has been done before. We're left with nothing but problems. It's just not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55291	Third correction, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55292	The minister said that without the programme or the "Hercules" plan, an update would be achieved. Madam Minister, the strategy states the overtime of judges and imagine where, in a court in Split where your inspection has identified computer overbooking with music and games. I don't know who's having fun with music and games. Citizens who have been waiting for years for a solution certainly don't have much fun. And these judges need to pay overtime.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55293	And this comment, please, is the same comment, one comment. Fourth correction, respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Excuse me, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55294	Mr. President, Madam Minister has stated that there are no major problems in implementing the legal provisions of the Family Law, or in jurisdiction by transferring the Social Care Centre to courts. There's a lady minister in trouble. They're not small. Because of that, if anything else because of the problem that... And I'm saying that the Justice Department is wrong, too, because by the 10th month of last year, despite the two full years, you didn't start training judges. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55295	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55296	Ms. Minister speaking of the achievements of Hercules, namely the operation of Hercules' achievement, said one incompleteness, and hence, when it is incompletely standing inaccuracy. You didn't mention whether the epochal achievements of Hercules included the opening of an elevator in Varazdin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-02-0.u55297	I'm closing the debate. A strategy for reforming the judicial system with a plan of action. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. It takes note of the Justice System Reform Strategy with the Action Plan. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 75 votes for, 10 abstentions, 14 against the proposed conclusion.
