ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-12-0.u57533	Mr. President, my Croatian is not perfect and that's all I know. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ambassador, Excellency. It's a great pleasure to be able to address this High House and let me remember something at the beginning. In 1992, at the initial session of the Barcelona Games, where I was, there was enthusiasm, there were big applauses, just for your Olympic Croatian team and your flag defiled Barcelona. It was a moment of peace for you after all those events that naturally took place until independence, and those that were later in the war where you established integrity because of territory. But at that moment in 92, the Spanish were thrilled to welcome your Olympic team and your country. I could not imagine then that a few years later, 14 years later, I would be here and as President of the European Parliament to address the Croatian parliamentarians at a time when negotiations are under way to join the European Union and indeed your country is at a crucial stage of relations with the European Union. Negotiations have already begun and our President Barroso said that here a few months ago. I understand that you will say, and time is finally. It's time for this process to finally begin. I understand your impatience, you have every right. You have waited a long time for this, but you must also understand that for Europe, for the European Union and for European opinion it was also important for Croatia to meet all the conditions for the start of these negotiations. It's already done. We work somewhere on 35 chapters, that's not small. 18 of these 35 chapters have already been reviewed. We have to keep that rhythm, that constant working rhythm. A chapter of science and research has just been completed, other chapters such as education, culture will come. So it's all going perfectly normal, which doesn't mean it's going very fast. In Europe, things have some rhythm that is not always fast, but I can tell you quite honestly, which characterizes us parliamentarians, that in this process it will certainly be a difficulty not more of course than those who had other countries, but of course that material that stands before us is great and of course its study requires time and great effort. We need to apply all the disposition of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Of course, I mean abolishing any discrimination against the citizens of the European Union who want to buy visits to your country. Let me also take advantage of my presence here and give you an honest question that can trigger difficulties. I, as a Spanish, know and I understand that your sensitivity, you who have such a rich cultural and natural heritage and take care of your territory and you wouldn't want it to fall into the hands of someone who isn't... Of course, there are problems, there are political sensibilities, and we'll sort it out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not that your heritage, national, will be reduced or that your coast will be reduced by buying in some kind of tourist development that will bring about foreigners. But in any case, this concept of a stranger must be given the place of the term "European citizen". The more progress you make on that path, the more integration into Europe. I, as a Spanish, know that this path determines the future, the perseverance, the insistence. Therefore, all the difficulties that will arise, but you must have patience. Spain has spent 12 years since General Franco's death until we signed the accession treaty. I'm sure it'll cost you less, it won't be as hard as in our case. But I would like to say from a historical perspective that this cost Spain 12 years of difficult negotiations and that often about very prosaic problems, such as, I don't know, tomatoes and salads, before we achieved admission in European countries' society. We couldn't have had from 1986 until 2006 those conditions that others had. Croatia's process and Croatia's inclusion is on track. I would like to say that the European Parliament that I am chairing will have the last word on this accession, as is the case in any case. As for the bodies that decide on, lastly, it is the European Parliament that determines the supranational policy that we European countries are trying to build and to overcome our old divisions. Therefore, it is important to have the opinion of the European parliamentarians and I want to take advantage of this moment to remove the doubts and possibilities of misunderstanding. Let's be clear. Of course, European parliamentarians, with their vote, decide to join any new member. That's why it's important that you know their opinion. In particular, he is referring, of course, to the reactions created in Croatia and other Balkan countries as a consequence of that report adopted by the European Parliament on 16 March. I know that your prime minister had direct contact with individual representatives and I know that this, this meeting of a mixed committee that was in Dubrovnik, of course, the best place for it recently. These problems have been completely removed, they've cleared up. But I insist, the European Parliament does not propose a third time or any alternative that would be different from your full accession to the European Union. Listen, of course, about this and you know what has been decided in Thessaloniki where the European Council has decided that the Western Balkans will be an integral part of the European Union. So let it be quite clear that the decision called BROK does not apply to Croatia because it is precisely about countries that do not have an open perspective today, a clear perspective for joining the European Union. But that's not the case of Croatia. Croatia has already routed and plotted an unequivocal path leading towards full accession to the European Union. Of course, that's quite clear. The European Union and Croatia must share a common future because somewhere in the 1990s, you are better than we can see the fatal and tragic consequences of not belonging to the European Union and the European Union's inaction in this part of Europe. Fortunately, we did not make that same mistake as the drama in Kosovo. For the first time in history, the European Union has committed itself to work alongside the International Community to avoid further strengthening of human drama. It is common to say that foreign policy and security policy were born right there. So that she could intervene in Kosovo and today she is present on the ground there and in all negotiations concerning the fates of the republic and of the states born in the former Yugoslavia. Of course, for our European Union it is also an interest. It's not some kind of favor that only gives someone the right. It is in the interest of Europeans to make this part of Europe politically stable, economically developed and integrated. Only a European perspective can enable us to achieve these objectives. I am convinced that the European Union is interested in Croatia becoming part of it and that, after Croatia, they are also doing so and perhaps within the longer term and its neighbours, but, of course, according to their opportunities and merits and in accordance with the rhythm that each of them can develop. I think we've cleared up some of the misunderstandings in this time of year now that we've started negotiations. Let me say something about a process ahead of us. I have recently spoken with your prime minister, of course I am interested in Croatian public opinion which is quite hesitant, it is divided, it is not unanimous and it seems that even now half of the Croatian population does not see clearly what the benefits of this process are. Of course there is your country different from mine, the Spanish are not 70 and 80%, we were convinced that the historical necessity to be part of Europe and 20 years later we are even more convinced than then. I think it would be positive for all political parties to have, to be in a consensus, to agree on it, but I call on you to, of course, do a political pedagoggy to say that the citizens, too, because in Europe we have a lot of examples of how politicians and citizens' opinions differ as well as what they express them on various occasions. Of course, we must avoid this divergence, and various perspectives between politicians who are responsible and citizens, and that is, of course, also the duty of parliamentarians, MPs, and me. I would like to congratulate you for also removing a number of obstacles to opening negotiations. I was in Cyprus when I heard that the Council decided to open negotiations, to start negotiations and we can agree with the satisfaction that Croatia is working with the International Court in The Hague and requires Croatia to continue to participate in this cooperation and to strengthen its judicial and administrative capacities. It is precisely within the framework of the public administration and of the judiciary that this reform is most necessary in order to strengthen the rule of law and to include everything that falls within the legal and other material of the European Union. In the front row of the judiciary. I think it's about a million and 500 thousand backlog cases somewhere. Of course, foreigners require legal certainty to come to this country and they must be sure that the judiciary works and if they are not sure then it is a major obstacle to economic integration in the supranational context. The independence of the judiciary must also be tried for the prosecution of war crimes, not for ethnically diverse concessions in parties. Therefore, we know that your country's legislative framework must ensure full protection of minorities, it must guarantee their real participation at all levels of public and social life. I also want to say something about the return and protection of refugees in the first row, and we can say that much has been done in the sector especially since the partial declaration in Sarajevo in 2005 between Bosnia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. Your prime minister has personally stepped up the process and made up for the backlogs. Somewhere hundreds of thousands of refugees have returned, but their return must be permanent. They'd have to come to stay because if it wasn't so it would have been, they'd be big problems for... Reintegration, and I insist that the European Parliament considers the permanent return of refugees to be more necessary and a condition for the stability of the entire region, and, of course, it is necessary to prepare both the economy and the social environment in order to allow for that return. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People can't live in the desert, where they can't work, where they can't make money. They must work in an environment where there is complete integration. Of course it's so-called. the market economy ambiance. The commission reminded it when she made the first report for your candidacy. Your economy is in good health and reforms must continue especially as far as privatisation is concerned. Of course, it is noted from the European Union that there are 40% of exports somewhere, but let me say that privatisation is not a goal for itself and that there is nothing in the European Union against public ownership of the state property of certain companies, there are no contracts against it, of course, if orderly business is provided. But there's also a way to make a country rich because the money you get from selling is actually the counterweight of that profit and that's what you get, that's what. The transformation of goods and therefore we must have financial opportunities for this and this privatisation process in some sectors can be used to better, to increase the impulse of competence and job stability. On the other hand, you have an open economy, an open economy towards the European Union, almost two-thirds of the exports go to the European Union. So, commercial speaking, you're already pretty integrated into our market. More and 2/3 of your imports come from the European Union and this is a positive consequence of the application of the Stabilisation Treaty, but I must say that the exchange with your close neighbours has not been developed and that it must work on regional integration and this is not easy to believe that markets will stagnate, that they have no relationship with each other, especially those who are geographically close and that of course leads me to a point that talks about relations with neighbours. You and your neighbours need to deal with problems with dialogue, your neighbours must also do so but you must not think either of them will solve the problems that you have to deal with each other through bilateral dialogue with those countries that occurred after Yugoslavia's collapse. Therefore, regional co-operation must have a new dimension, bilateral agreements should be encouraged and an area created in the Balkans because we cannot think that you could integrate and enter the European Union if there is no effort to integrate at regional level, and when I say so, I would like to stress that this is not even a strange attempt to rebuild the former Yugoslavia. I've heard some comments here, but I don't think that makes any sense. In this call for regional co-operation, strengthening relations with neighbours has no attempt to reconstruct or rebuild the former Yugoslavia. History simply cannot be restored. History is not universal. You are already on your way to Europe and you must step up the exchange with your neighbours and it can only help your relations and therefore I congratulate you for joining the enlargement of the SEPTA where you have been members since 2003. I welcome the meeting held in Bucharest that hit the foundations of the new free trade zone. This is a good example of goodwill and cooperation and I also welcome the recent regional conference on social security and the efforts you take with Europe and other neighbours to develop an energy community for this part of Europe. Gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President! This cooperation is actually part of your obligations as a future member of the European Community. You can already start doing that. Croatia will, in some ways, play a beer player, which is the term of course from basketball. You are in some way a bridge, a clear example of what someone can do to serve as an example. You're interested in not being the only one or the last when it comes to integration. You must do everything to encourage the progress of your neighbors, their stability, it is in your interest and do not see any attempt to put you in the same bag as others. Each country must naturally be treated and monitored according to its own rhythm and context. But in the process in which these neighbours live they also have an interest in them and what it is... I would also like to remind you that Serbia-Montenegro is already open the way for accession and stabilisation and that we are waiting for a referendum in Montenegro on the basis of an agreement where the European Union has actively participated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also remind you that Kosovo is a central fundamental topic and this is very important, strategically important for Europe, so the Council of Ministers decided to send experts to study a possible replacement... European forces called the rule of law mission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Parliament also discussed Kosovo and I think that Kosovo can only survive as a multiethnic whole and Bosnia and Herzegovina thinks there are also brave and good steps as regards constitutional reforms and the European perspective of the country experiencing a major reform of its institutions. Let me point out that Croatia must play an important role in this process because of its experience, its social and historical ties with these countries in the Balkans and when it comes to the full stabilisation of the area. Today's Europeans, or members of the European Union, must also make every effort to join that goal. I don't like to talk about the enlargement of the Union. It is not the Union that is expanding, but Europe is reuniting. I'd like to speak not of enlargement but of unification, of association. So that's how we remove, destroying that sad legacy after World War II. Therefore, to return to where we have always been, we should only see the urban physionomy of Zagreb and see that it is Europe. So we don't need to expand Europe. Europe meets itself. Because you're part of that same Europe. But know that the European Union is in a situation that we could call a crisis if you are not afraid of that word, but it does not have to scare us because the crisis also means an opportunity, because today Europe, at least, is in a stage of deep thinking and thinking about its situation, about its dimensions, about its ways of functioning, about its objectives. The European Union was born to avoid war among countries that once had been slaughtered by each other and this goal was achieved and the history of the Union is the history of success, but one can die even after success. When you achieve something, some goal you may not be able to give some new ideas and fail anymore. Today, the European Union is now thinking about these obstacles and the goals we Europeans want, and we Europeans want to achieve together because together I think we are stronger, that we can be more qualified for the challenges that await us. I invite you to join this thinking, open thinking not only of political representatives and citizens, and tell everyone that he understands the world in which we live and the role Europe can play. We need to know what that means when we talk about these problems. How does the European Union have the capacity to join all its members? Of course there are limits. Europe has borders because it cannot accept everything. It is hard to believe that the European Union can function lightly with 28, 29 members, and with those rules that were adopted when there were only 8 or 10 members. Of course, all those problems are still there. We have to deal with them. We must have institutional resources so that we can function with more members because the operating standards we have today are not effective to function properly. And I don't think it's just an economic or economic problem. Everyone's asking me and where's Croatia? In the perspective of 2006, 2014? I mean, that's no problem. These perspectives will, of course, be studied when necessary, when the time comes and when Croatia is in it. It's not a problem in a few million euros, of course. The problem is the ability to function better, to better set our goals and to make the citizens see it, to bring their interest together. Not just to make Europe as big as possible, but to make Europe stronger. And that is why we must speak honestly because it is the only way to come to constructive conclusions amongst us parliamentarians and knowing that we have taken important steps for our future, that you are going in the right direction and I think we must speed up reforms, that we must show trust to each other without listening to voices that can shine some dissension and that we must work together so that strong Europe can play in the world that role it played and at home first works peace and then in cooperation and then in the shared division of that fate that we can better preserve if it is common... [[The translation is not understood because of the applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-12-0.u57534	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank President Borell for the realistic, sincere, open and fair and correct lighting of the pro-European future of Croatia for all of the realities of Croatia's present but also Croatia's future and reality, in Croatia's environment. Thank you very much, Mr. President, once again on, and the honor you have shown to the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament for speaking at these times of giving and supporting the European Parliament and you personally on the pro-European path of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also concluding the 19th session of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]]
