ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61268	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party, I am interested in the rights which you Rules of Procedure apply when you do little, little and little walking on the agenda, so you are going. Let's end with point 10, and then you go to 31, and now you're back to 20 and who knows where it's going to end up and how. Which Rules of Procedure do you apply? That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61269	Mr Kovacevic, I apply the current Rules of Procedure when there are conditions for certain points of the agenda then those points are met. You don't have a speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61270	I'm right on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61271	You don't have a speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61272	I'm right. How could you last night... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61273	You don't have a speech. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61274	How could you not, so what kind of Rules of Procedure is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61275	Please sit down. You can't speak without permission. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61276	How can I not? I speak on behalf of the HSP Club, not on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61277	Proposer representative Secretary Željir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61278	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me briefly say something about the proposed Law on the Education and Education Agency. We at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports started with certain changes in our school system and we started from that we should strengthen the professional support of our education system. So far, we've only had a school office that employs about 120 experts. For the sake of comparison, in other European countries, this professional support to the education and education system is significantly better. Let me compare only to Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia has an Institute of Education with 209 employees, has a Institute of Professional Education with 60 employees, a State Examining Centre that deals with external evaluation of education with 40 employees and a human university that cares about the education of adults with 32 employees. It is their professional support to the system of education and education, and here we have until recently only had the Institute of Education with 120 employees. Of course, this professional institution could not have been enough professional support for our education system, so we decided to set up a first step for the Professional Education Agency which already employs 30 experts, and eventually it will be about 45 by the end of this year, of course with the professional development service and we are counting on us to continue to team up the Professional Education Agency. Why does it matter? In European countries, they have the same problem with vocational education as we have new technologies, often changing and creating a system that will be flexible, which will adapt to labour market requirements. That is why this issue is very important, and we have 70% of the high school system in vocational education and indeed those 9 consultants who were in the vocational education department, in the office they couldn't support the vocational education system as much as they wanted. For these reasons, we have established the Professional Education Agency, taken over from the Bureau that department of nine advisors, and here we are teaming up the Human Resources Agency. Likewise, in the Croatian Parliament, the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education was passed, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments for the first time in the Republic of Croatia created assumptions that an external evaluation of education with almost all European countries is being introduced. The National Centre for External Evaluation of Education will have 35 employees to start and we already have a small team of four consultants working on the external evaluation of education but only within the framework of the PIZA project. A trial survey was conducted last year, a major survey is being conducted this year. So, in cooperation with the OECD, we're going to have the first results of the PIZA project this summer, and we're going to see what it's going to be like. This team currently working on this job at the Institute of Education will be taken over to the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, and we will take another part of the job activity that does not belong to the Institute of Education into another professional institution. And something else will happen. Soon there will be a law on adult education that rests on the philosophy of lifelong learning, and we will set up an adult education agency, so this agency will take over these few employees who form the Centre for adult education at the Institute of Education, as well as a large number of four advisers. This will create several professional institutions, and we are sure it will be better to support the education system and we will relieve the services that we have done but not sufficiently teamed up to date. We could have thought too many of the advisors the Bureau had but given all these jobs they had, no matter how much they wanted, they couldn't handle it the way they were supposed to. Therefore, by establishing these professional institutions, we will indeed have a better transport to the entire system of education and education. We therefore propose the establishment of an education and education agency that would be the legal follower of the Institute of Education. I would especially like to emphasise this because this legal follower will take over all the assets and take over all the employees of the Educational Office and, of course, in his development plan, also count on new employment. In that content part, we mentioned some of the contents in this law, and some of us feel that the statute should be regulated. At the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which supported the adoption of this law in the first reading and made a lot of remarks. It would be said, however, that some things should be regulated by law rather than leaving everything to be regulated or regulated by the statute. We accept such a suggestion. The content section here said that the education and education agency will participate in the development, development and implementation of the national curricula and the minister announced the adoption of a national curricula, he also announced the adoption of a pedagogical standard which is therefore documents to be found before the Croatian Parliament. We will try to do this job well and expect that we will be able to send the proposal of pedagogical standard to you in the Croatian Parliament by the end of this year. Furthermore, in this content section, we say that the agency monitors the construction and implementation of the Croatian national educational standard as part of the national curricula. Since we recently passed the Law on textbooks where we said that authors can't be employees of the Institute of Education, the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education and the Professional Education Agency, and we wanted to make it clear in this law, and here it is said that the employees of the Education and Education Agency cannot be authors of textbooks. We could not say in the Law on textbooks that they would be employees of the Education and Education Agency because of what we would reconsider. There was no law at the time, and that institution was gone, so it had to remain that it was the Institute of Education. Furthermore, in Article 17, we referred to the Law on Language Education and the Letter of National Minorities and said that advisers and senior advisers for school institutions in language and letter of national minorities were chosen in accordance with the provisions of the law that I mentioned. So far, it wasn't in the law, so in some other ways we've been trying to solve it. Here, the bill is in the first reading, it is our ambition to pass this law by July 15th until the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. We have plenty of time to get the law ready for second reading. I call upon you, Madam Representatives and gentlemen, that, just as on the parliamentary committee of MPs and MPs, on the parent committee of Parliament, they have made proposals for you to express them here, and I can promise on behalf of the promoters that we will make any good proposals that will significantly improve this law and install it into a second reading. I can say that because of what we have done in proposing the laws we have so far recently, we have accepted much of your suggestions. Last time it was about the Bookbook Act, I think we did a good job. I hope that's the way it's gonna be today. I thank you in advance for your contribution to the debate in order to have the best bill in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61279	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Petar Selem. Here you go. The board has held a session and is just multiplying reports and you will receive it immediately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61280	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State and Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on the Education and Education Agency, P.Z., at the 21st session held on 31 March this year. No. 455 which has been delivered by the government of the Republic of Croatia by the Croatian Act of 22 March 2006 to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. A number of remarks and proposals concerning the issue of establishing a new institution called the Education and Education Agency with relevant professional tasks and public powers have been discussed and a comprehensive analytical comparison with the tasks and achievements of the former Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia has been carried out. As part of the debate, it was established and concluded what the Committee was pointing them towards, towards the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It undertakes to examine the possibility of running and drawing up a proposal for a national "curriculum" project in front of funds at European Union level. It is then called on the Ministry to provide the Committee with elements in order to hold a thematic debate on the subject of unity and harmonisation of elements both in termsologically and in programme, normative system that regulates areas of education and education. As far as the law itself is concerned, the bill sets out a number of remarks here and I particularly think it is worth noting that the functions of supervisors are separated because this clearly potentiates the effectiveness of one and the other functions. After the debate was held, the Committee reached the following conclusion by a majority of votes of 7 for, 3 abstentions: it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Proposal for a Law on the Education and Education Agency and all proposals and remarks will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61281	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP counseling club. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61282	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. One of the key preconditions for the introduction of effective changes in the school system are changes in the educational infrastructure, i.e. the establishment of a network of professional and independent institutions as professional support to the education system itself. The development infrastructure should provide professional bases for formulating a rational education policy and for the continuous improvement of the quality of education. All research and experience has shown that development infrastructure is more important because changes in systems that need to be undertaken are more comprehensive and complex, and in Croatia very extensive changes are needed, and that change in social context is greater. In transition countries and in Croatia, economic and social changes require rooted changes in the education system. They're very demanding. The social context in which these changes are implemented is unstable, and development resources are limited. In such circumstances, changes in education need to be introduced with extreme thought and implemented with maximum quality. This assumes the existence of a highly developed educational infrastructure that exists only in indications in Croatia. Many researchers and educational analysts... The process is precisely in this fact, with existing external constraints, seen as the main internal limiting factor which makes it impossible to change the system better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia was founded on 12 December 2002, creating a prerequisite for the start of the development of educational infrastructure. We now have a proposal to rename the Institute to the Education and Education Agency, which sometimes corresponds with contemporary European trends and changes in this area, but it is necessary to do much more than just renaming the Institute. In the SDP Club, we also see the greatest weakness of this bill, which is very strict in its content. In particular, this refers to the measure of action of the future agency which is dedicated only to 2 or 3 articles of the Bill's proposal while the rest of the proposal is dealt with and is not sufficiently precise and quite poor in the management structure and structure of the Institute. I'll come back a little later to the comments in some articles of the bill. What is really important to us, I think, is that at the beginning of this debate, what we lack in the SDP Club, and it seems to me that a number of representatives' clubs have mentioned in the adoption of the Law on textbooks and some other discussions on education is one big picture of what we want to achieve in the education system and what are our objectives? We, like the Croatian Parliament, get from time to time some partial solutions to the changes of certain segments in the system that are more or less successfully explained and that I never really think we have received or let God discuss the system as a whole and the necessary changes in the system of education and education, both strategically and objectively in the development context of priorities. In addition, in the SDP it seems to us that a number of partial changes such as these come even only changes are working with rather inconsistencies and without a prior quality expert analysis that would justify the need, meaning and objective of change. We think that now is the time to finally discuss here in the Assembly the Strategic Plan for Development of the Educational System because it is not a job for one government, because if we want to achieve quality and real changes about the necessary but now and necessary changes, it is necessary to achieve the first professional and then political consensus so as not to be regularly the case of any new minister of radio changes from the beginning which, with the arrival of a new minister, would then be thrown into the abyss of tried but inefficient educational solutions with very often questionable professional legitimacy. The example of one part of this discrepancy that we pointed to on the Committee was 10 days ago or so ago, or somehow the Law on textbooks where we directly mentioned the Institute of Education in that part of the conflict of interest, and now that institution directly 10 days after we introduced it into a law in some way ceases to exist. So until the second reading of this law we at the SDP Club expect the necessary analysis of the work so far, an analysis of the work of the Institute so far. Professionally valid reasoned reasons for changes in the Institute, i.e. now within the Agency and the strategic plan for the development of educational infrastructure. Why are we looking for this? In the light of the proposal for a law, the reasons for which the law is adopted are given. And when we do an analysis of these reasons of the law, the bill's proposal doesn't fit but absolutely no single reason that's listed as cause of a change of law. I mean, it's a kind of paradox that's pretty weird to us. For example, it states that one of the reasons why the law is passed is that there is no clear methodology for the implementation of professional training and the advancement of teachers. On this point, there is no letter in the law except that the Agency is carrying out the professional training that has been so far. For example, the second is said to be unclear jurisdiction of the Institute in relation to its co-workers in the implementation of established obligations and transactions, for example, in relation to higher education institutions. We don't have one word on what the modes of cooperation of the Institute are with these other institutions. Then this is the weirdest. For example, one reason why the law is supposed to be passed is the inaccuracies of the established units of the Institute, and now we do not define at all what units of the Bureau we have, let alone what their activities should be. And so on and so forth. All these nine points, which are why the law, which makes it a law to be passed in no way, has its object in the bill itself. If we look further at the reasons and the whole page on which these are basic issues that need to be regulated by law, it is again and again in no way responding to that argument, which is why the law needs to be amended, and it is necessary in some way to regulate it until another reading and indeed to write the provisions of the law or, then, from the final proposal of the law, to meet the needs of why the law should be passed. Secondly, what seems to us in the SDP to be a very important thing in this bill is proposed a very dangerous precedent regarding the adoption of curriculas and programmes, i.e. national girls. Everywhere in Europe, at least in that developed world and that developed Europe that we have as a role model of the professional work of making a national girlculum, i.e. a curricula and a programme is entrusted outside the ministry to professional state independent institutions precisely to avoid political arbitration which is in some way mandatory to the ministry. What the ministry remains is a formal decision on what will be the curricula and the programme, i.e. the national girlculum. We are now predicting, and even more sadly, these concrete activities mentioned by the opening secretary and state secretary that the ministry has just opened a public tender for people who should be making teaching girls are completely contrary to all modern tendencies that the school girlculum is working in professional, independent institutions outside the ministry itself so that any political decisions are deprived and that the only criterion is related to expertise. Second, one part of the argument related to HNOS. HNOS tamperings that do not have any legal basis cannot be intertwined in such a way that it is very wrongly claimed here in this explanation in some way mutilated in this law, because it is, among other things, placed in the authority of the agency to monitor the production and implementation of HNOS as part of the national girlculum, and only a few indents earlier, we have written that the agency as such is engaged in the implementation of the entire girlculum, so it is absolutely unnecessary then to mention that it deals with the production and implementation of HNOS as part of the national girlculum because each part implies that it has a whole. Another question that we have not received the answer to the committee, and little shows confusion throughout the system and confirms in some way our request to be given to development and professional institutions or at least a plan for discussion. The government set up a regulation to establish an Professional Education Agency, which specifically meant that the part that was in the so far-called Institute of Education was allocated to the Agency. We are now getting a law establishing this Education and Education Agency and this Educational Agency and the Education and Education Agency, somehow in the sum of our actions, should be what the Educational Institute is now. It is not clear to us why this agency was established by a regulation, the latter is established by law when they are in the public interest, in the manner of action, according to the public authority, have the exact same things simply different areas of education. Secondly, despite the reasons in this law, there is a very vague relationship related to the conduct of professional exams, the implementation of the process of advancement and professional training related precisely to these vocational schools and these to say so to the general school. Even in some places, the reasons for the law have very contradictory sentences and, until the second reading, it is necessary to make these provisions more precise. For example, in one part of the argument it is said that professional advancement, exams have been transferred to the Professional Education Agency. Then on the other hand, it's said to remain in this agency. I mean, it's clear where it's supposed to be, but it needs to be unequivocally established in this law. Until the second reading of the law, it is also necessary to define other relations between the education and education agencies with the professional education agency, but also with the Agency for Science and Higher Education and with the External Evaluation Centro as well as with all other institutions that should be established. A few words about the metrics. The most important activities of this agency or of this type of agency appear to be girlculum, advisory work at all levels, professional training, conducting professional exams, conducting teachers and teachers' promotions and expert-pedagogical supervision. We think these fundamental activities in our law are quite unambitiously determined. I don't think you should go far. Perhaps look at only Slovenian solutions and their regulation on the establishment of their Institute of Education because they are much more ambitiously identified activities that allow much greater development activity in the system itself. Several comments related to these activities. First, we in the SDP consider it necessary to separate the advisers into supervisors. So far, we have had one and the same person doing both counseling and supervisory work, and this has had very bad consequences in the particular situation in the class because in fact, the important job of consulting especially younger teachers has turned into supervision and some kind of questioning. What is said sadly by the way is the only supervision developed in this bill is nothing else. Secondly, professional training of teachers and teachers must not and cannot be a monopoly agency. We have so far had cases that from publishing houses to certain professional associations lead to professional training of teachers. Some of them admitted to an existing office, some of them not. We believe that, among other things, it should be determined as one of the activities of the institutes that verifys the programmes of associations of professional associations and others for the professional training of teachers and that what is other than what is, except that the Agency is the body that organises the professional training of teachers giving licences for those who can carry out this training because there should be certain controls there, but no professional training should be a monopoly agency. Second and last in a way related to this measure, the issue of professional training and the advancement of teachers and teachers should be designed on a significantly different basis than today. Today's criteria are questionable and are mainly related to how many individuals she spent in direct education work with children. I think that it should be set up according to the criteria of excellence in order to be motivated especially for younger and capable people to stay in the public eye because one pour and staff poverty of the education system cannot do well to the school system itself, nor will they be able to make any changes that are necessary without good people. On individual articles, the comments on individual articles will be made by our representatives and MPs in their individual discussions and one and I mean a final remark on behalf of the club. What is unacceptable for us at the SDP Club and this should change until the second reading intransparency in this bill. It will all be determined here by the statute and appointed by the minister. Such provisions as Parliament, I do not think that we should support them and that we should make sure that the things that should be defined in the law are defined in the law, not that we pass a law that lists what someone else will do. On the side of what I find to be these acts, our current minister often presents himself as something of a man who knows everything and can do anything. I think there's still one piece of professional work that can't be left to the ministry and the statutes and confirmations of the minister. And in the end, we will vote with abstention on this bill at the SDP Club. We need the agency, and we agree with this whole idea, but we need to make significant steps and changes to get the agency that we need as a key institution of education infrastructure, not just as a mere renaming of the existing institution. The second reason we're going to vote abstention is because I think the idea of the law, the idea of forming an agency is good, the law is bad. And yet as representatives and MPs here in the Croatian Parliament we vote on the law, we vote on the written text, not on any fluid ideas that they can, and then they don't have to have their own equipment in practice. And I repeat certain remarks will be discussed by our representatives and MPs in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61283	Thank you. State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61284	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam MPs, I'd like to get a little involved right at the beginning of this debate in the first reading for a few reasons. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. MP pointed out that partial changes have been made. No, quite the opposite. We are just one step at a time developing a complete picture in changes and education so that this law of the Education and Education Agency cancels one effect from 2003 when we received parallelism in education as was formed by the Educational Institute. And that's exactly the one situation that needs to be changed. Why? Because the concept is created in the ministry, and professional support should be provided by the agency, or the Institute, as we now call it, so that some of the responsibilities do not match, which is very important to say and get the whole. Also, the Agency for External Valuation that we never had, we're now installing it. We have other agencies, such as vocational education, which is extremely important, which does not exclude this Education and Education Agency. Second, why isn't this a partial approach? Because the national girls we want to get to are ladies and gentlemen. We've only heard the theory so far in the national girls. No one in Croatia has ever made it. That's a fact. Coming to the national girls is part of the theory, but you'll also agree to practice. So today, Croatia's national educational standard is one way for a modern girl to arrive. In a few steps, we'll get there. But here I agree with Mrs. Lugaric, we will call a public call with an international girl and invite more experts who can continue to act and work to finally reach that goal. The Agency for Education and Education at this time as the establishment is given the necessary support for our teaching to receive professional support. There's one more thing I'd like to say, this is where you recognize teachers as teachers. The practice of some countries in this environment suggests that the agency can have such specialists on its team who are school practitioners, who work mostly at school, but can participate and help the institution across Croatia deployed as teachers. And that's that the element that our school system doesn't have needs to be developed by the Law on elementary schooling, high school to the agency. And this precisely designed part, step by step to the whole system, we think it is useful for Croatia and here we are truly grateful to all the experts in the Republic of Croatia, but also to these clubs that have shown at the Law on textbooks that there can be consent to how we can get to that whole. Here, I just wanted to point that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61285	Correction of the incorrect alleged, respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61286	My friend Zetic, it's an incorrect assumption that HNOS is the way to the girl. And that's not my opinion, it's my correction, it's the attitude of the entire expert public. At the end and the theory of the girlculum which is not anyone's political invention, but a scientific discipline that says that the standard in the form of a catalogue of knowledge such as our HNOS comes at the end as a last step, not as a first step for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61287	The club of the representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61288	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I am not going to take that long, but I will still look back on this proposal of the Law on the Education and Education Agency and present several views of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. First, I will say that the Agency for Education and Education proposed by this law certainly receives a positive assessment in terms of the need for establishment. This is particularly important to mention for the reasons why it is well-represented that the Agency must deal with the profession. The only question is which we would like to begin by clarifying in the HSS whether politics will deal with the Agency. And manages to convince us that the Agency will be independent of policies that will support and protect and defend the profession. You'll have maximum support for us from the HSS. Of course, when we talk about the reasons why this bill is being passed, then I would not comment on these nine reasons that are mentioned here, because some are absolutely necessary for comment, and some are too high. Anyway, I'm going to stay for this first reason one more time, and that's that there's no clear methodology conducted professional training and teacher advancement. That's right. In recent, free to say 15 years, we do not have a serious system to monitor professional training, so I would say teachers' progress, although we must say it there in early 2000 when the reform on primary and secondary education began and certain positive steps were taken and the profession itself welcomed them and indeed accepted very positively. I believe that one of the crucial drivers for the overall development of primary and secondary education is this very professional training, but also one of the crucial drivers for monitoring and motivating teachers. This is in any case I'd say no matter what a very nerd looks like written, one of the essential laws. It must, in any case, be linked to the overall reform of education. We at HSS are wondering where the reform of education is now and why it cares about the initial reforms that were set up there in early 2000 and certain legal projects. But to this day, we do not have an answer, and all of us would remind us that before 2000, there were very heated discussions exactly in which direction this reform would go. If you remember when Minister Pugelnik was also when it was debated whether there would be a 9-year or 10-year primary school education, however, here to this day we do not have clear answers. Since 2000, the coalition government has also proposed a good part of the reform, but still we have not received a strategic document that would give those answers to which I have just asked questions, where, in which direction, basic and secondary education goes as regards the system of education. Decentralisation started in 2001 capital projects or investments are carried out both by county and some cities that have taken over care and care of primary schools in their area. The whole of Croatia is being built, and I have never received an answer on which system, which strategy and what real spaces are or what the real school standard needs for the Republic of Croatia, how much school halls we need, how many classrooms we need, how much help we need, etc. etc. We don't know at the end of the day, and it's about informing school, and we don't know what kind of school we want. Taking classes in one shift, a project that Varazdin County and I as mayor in the previous term started, we started very carefully and systematically, and only in those schools where, on the basis of the number of students, we could predict possibly several years, so 9 or 10 years if the government decides on such a proposal system, and this Parliament will not bother because there will be no lack of space. So we'd like to say right now if the minister and support the projects of the public private partnership, that we know on the basis of which strategies. We're going to build halls, we're going to build, or we're going to build schools or we're going to build new schools, and maybe it comes to us in two years when we get that new strategy, and it's going to be too small. So I expect this agency, and for its part not only for professional training, to participate in these discussions. Now let me say something about the Agency and the Bureau's relationship. The secretary of state himself was saying that at this point, the office has 120 employees, and the agency should be a legal follower of the school office. But in this law, I have to admit as hard as I've tried, if I look at only articles of this law, I get answers to a series of questions, I haven't succeeded, so I'm just going to make some of the remarks that I think should be settled by law. The Agency’s activity as defined in Article 4 has been quite solidly written, although a good part of it has been taken over, of course, by the Institute, but I am more concerned about this continuation of this bill, which is the structure and the bodies of the agencies. The agency is set up departments, the first thing it says here, the agency has branches, etc. The Agency shall be managed by the Administrative Board, Article 9. The presidents and members of the board of directors are appointed and resolved by the minister. As a rule, there are a number of cases where there are such definitions in laws. I agree. But I would like to try to define once and for all whether the policy will have such a big impact on the work of that agency or not, or whether it is really necessary for the minister to appoint a president and members of the board of directors for such a significant agency, because that means that they must be similar, so they must be politically similar or by some other criteria. At this point, I wouldn't want to reconsider the answer. After that, I have some more of the remarks that seem very important to me, which is what the administrative council is doing. The Administrative Council, as is the case in most other agencies or institutions or institutions, shall adopt statutes. But what does the statutes solve? In fact, here we have written that the agency is doing the tasks defined in Article 4. But we don't even know what the organisation of the agency is. It says that the director of the agency proposes to the Management Board the appointment and resolution of assistant directors and secretaries of the Agency. In Article 13, the director of the agency has assistants. Now I don't know if there are any more assistants or if there's only one assistant. The proposal of the HSS is, if a whole series of powers of the Governing Council are already mentioned here in the bill, including the director and the activities that are being undertaken, I see no reason why the structure in this bill should not be listed. So here's a clear suggestion, I suggest that in this proposal, the law for second reading is contained in the law. I would just like a few more sentences to refer to and some other questions that should perhaps be resolved differently or in this law. In my opinion, it should separate the functions of counselors and supervisors and also raise the question if we already knew that the institution in a segment played a rather monopoliesic role, let's not make the same mistake with this agency. So there should be no monopoly on the organisation of professional training and implementation of an entire series of competitions. And finally, in addition to these essential remarks relating to the overall reform of education and to support in terms of the need for such an agency, it would really be useful to give an answer whether this improvement mentioned here is necessary and necessary in the overall development of our education system. We today have a situation that a large number of middle-aged people need a series of requalifications. We know that overall information, including a whole series of new technologies that are increasingly involved in our overall life, is imperative to everyone, not only the education system but also other categories, that new technologies and new knowledge are needed to respond. How can a person at 40, 2, 3, 5 be able to handle himself in that game? Do we all together as a society have the answer to that? I had opportunities a few years ago to visit several states in, among other things, the Federal Republic of Germany, which is precisely for this need, the need for requalification if we may say so briefly, founded a series of academys. But that's what the state subsidized, the state aided. Can we and this agency answer or at least give answers to these questions? Where are these people really going in those companies that can't with the old technology? Here, in that agency and about this proposal I think there should be answers to these questions as well. So I'll do it again, we think the Agency is needed. It is necessary to resolve these dilemmas that I was talking about but also in the overall education system, it is also necessary to give answers to the question of where the reform of our school system is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61289	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61290	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what my colleague Sabati said. I did correct myself in one at the end of his debate. We don't have a system of professional training and advancement. That's not true. The Institute of Education is implementing a system of advancement and improvement, but the second is our opinion which needs to be defined more precisely. Or another allegation, it's about school reform, which is not true. It has just begun with a series of changes and reforms, and a strategic development plan was adopted last year in June. Development plan for education and education from 2005 to 2010
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61291	And you're right on behalf of the HDZ Club. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61292	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club discussed the proposal for a law on the Education and Education Agency in first reading and brought its next conclusions and considerations. Croatia has launched a series of changes in the system of education and education, I will only quote some for introduction. In June 2005, the government adopted a strategic development document aimed at improving the education and education system, already mentioned here a plan for development of education and education from 2005 to 2010. HNOS has also been introduced with the purpose of and changes in the teaching programmes and discharges of students and very major changes in the system of primary education. The course is based on the teaching process, and it is also directed towards the student, respecting the student’s abilities and inclinations. The student is also introduced into research-oriented teaching. A reform of vocational education has been launched, and a new Professional Education Agency has also been established to carry out planning, development, organisation, monitoring and evaluation of the school system, professional training staff training in the field of vocational education. Another important institution that is already here today and mentioned in the opening presentation of our proposings is very important for our education system, the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. So it started with a series of changes in the education system. So far we have had one institution, the Institute of Education, which was founded in 2002 and which was then active in the system of the Ministry of Education and Sports. Since 2003, since 1 December it has been acting as an independent institution dealing with monitoring, improving and developing systems of education, developing an analysis of the situation, applying research but not implementing an evaluation system of external evaluation. So now we have a special facility that deals exclusively with it. So far, there has been no such thing in our education system. We now have before us a proposal for a law on the Education and Education Agency to replace the current Institute of Education. I.e., the establishment of the Agency would have stopped and would have been out of force of the Educational Institute Act. With the establishment of the Professional Education Agency, the Institute has indeed lost some of the activities it has done so far and it is certainly necessary to distinguish the competence between newly established agencies and now already in the proposal today before us of the Education and Education Agency. So we have yet another change in the system of education. Here are a few remarks that I, as a promoter in front of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, make as a contribution to the proposer. Article 4 The proposal for a law is defined by the Agency's activity. The Agency will participate in the development, development and implementation of the national curricula. We really believe that this must be done exclusively by the Agency. Provide assistance to educational institutions and employees in the implementation of education and education, implement and organise professional training of teachers and directors. The provision in this area really needs to be defined more precisely. With previous colleagues who participated in the debate, we fully agree that this area has been incorrectly defined so far and we ask that in the second reading it be more precise. The Agency will also conduct professional exams and progress procedures for educational and educational staff, give opinions on curricula and programmes, from pre-school institutions, primary schools, gymnasium and general education courses in vocational schools. Therefore, the relationship between the Education and Education Agency and the Professional Education Agency should be strong. Therefore, it should also be specified precisely because the verification for some teaching subjects and professions will be carried out by the Professional and General Educational Agency. Then, the Agency monitors and implements HNOS, participates in carrying out student reviews and competitions which is very important because it is really necessary to introduce order, way and conduct competitions in this area. I think the future task of this particular agency is to, I would say, modernise, improve. The HDZ Representatives Club believes that professional training in second reading needs better, more specifically to determine, define. The possibility that others other than the agency participate in professional training should be allowed, but just as we have advocated in the Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks, we believe that a certain licence or certificate should be given, however, to the Institute of Education, who can carry out professional training because now I can tell you in practice we have all possible types and associations, I would say also publishing houses that are being directed and carried out professional training and indeed there are a lot of irregularities in the field. Article 5 defines the concept of professional pedagogical supervision in educational institutions, although this was not specifically established in the jurisdiction of the institutions. Such supervision should be carried out in schools as professional assistance. So far, this advisory expertise has been seen as an inspection, not as an expert supervision. We think that the future agency should pay particular attention to this problem, so I agree with my colleague, Lugaric, and with my colleague Sabati, that it is necessary to separate the affairs of counselors and supervisors. The paper introduced in Article 6 is that the agency is given the opportunity to consider the submissions of citizens, authorities of the state administration, regional (area) and local self-government. The performances were now mostly addressed to the ministry. As the institute acted in the ministry system then it was possible for the institute to be seen about these performances, it is now a special institution and it should be established that this very indication of these performances is being regulated by the agency, but also addressed by the ministry. It is regulated by Article 9 that the Agency manages the administrative board of presidents and 6 members. It might be good to define the composition of the board of directors and to appoint members from all areas and activities, meaning both pre-school education and primary and secondary normal staff, perhaps the ministry to think about it well. Article 8 is amended as follows: We also propose and believe that the law should define the departments and branches of the future agency, and in no way leave it to the statutes alone. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Director shall submit a report on the work and business of the Agency to the Governing Council and the Ministry. Of course, he is responsible for doing business, but we believe that the administrative council appointed by the minister must submit a report on the work of the ministry, primarily because of the responsibility and seriousness of the work of members of the board. Finally, the establishment of an institution as it is now for education due to a number of changes in the education system does not satisfy the needs of education listed in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for which the Proposal for this Law on the establishment of the Education and Education Agency should be adopted and a new, different institution should be set up to deal with the problem of education and education of the system in the segments listed in Article 4 of that I do not repeat them here, and therefore the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the draft law in the first reading with the hope that some of our remarks will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61293	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61294	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd actually correct an incorrect quote, but let me give you an introductory sentence after all. Namely, it wouldn't be good to... I am correcting the incorrect allegations, namely Mrs. Advocacy said that in 2005, very big changes were made, i.e. they started with a number of reforms in the education system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is simply incorrect because if we all remember together that real reforms started in 2001, decentralisation of financing, we talk about capital investments, investment maintenance, technical maintenance, decentralisation of decision-making, etc., etc. I mean, I don't want to talk, it all started today, and nothing ever happened before. That's not just true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61295	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61296	Dear President, this proposal for a Law on the Education and Education Agency. My dear colleague, you are not entirely right in your entire debate. There's talk of raising, and here it isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61297	My colleague Kurt's something someone's wrong. One of Kurt's colleagues is right and the other is wrong, and the third is an incorrect argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61298	Well, the incorrect claim is that this bill is good because there is no one here, it says that for education and education, and there is no education. We are all witnesses that in schools students beat professors, professors play porn etc., and we are nowhere to see about rearing or o. Therefore, he did not deserve this bill to be released further.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61299	Your colleagues, please, go to the courthouses, go to the grades that someone is right or wrong. The factual claim, the fact of the claim, should also be corrected. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61300	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Well, the first thing I have to say on behalf of the Croatian party club is a paradox. On the one hand, the fact is indisputable and what we have heard in the debate so far is that with the current education and education systems and processes in Croatia, dissatisfied parents, students, students, and certainly those who participate and perform this, means teachers, teachers and teachers. They are all dissatisfied and all expect certain changes, and on the other hand our students, students in international competitions, deliver excellent results. Let's look at the results from the competition, these are excellent results. So what's the consequence? The consequence of why they achieve excellent results is the love and commitment of teachers and professors who prepared them for these competitions and therefore these very teachers, these teachers should be the bearers of all reforms in the education and education system, not officials, officials have no results. The results mean students and students, and thanks to the love and commitment of their teachers, teachers, teachers who are essentially underrated in this society and underpaid and everything else. Because, if the officials are working and until now, officials have always been in charge since this Croatian state was established, every government is talking about how it moves towards reforms, how reforms are carried out and the situation remains the same. And of course, here we've already heard that officials are moving into reforms to make a strategy and we know what the fate of all sorts of strategies, programs, plans, eventually and those who wrote them don't read or implement them. So it went completely backwards in all of this. So let us finally give to those who have results which are these meanings teachers, teachers and teachers who prepare them to be with the children's council of knowledge, so let them be those main drivers. And now let's look at this current situation. Normally, this leadership of the ministry has been talking from the beginning about systematic reforms and everything else, and it took them 26 months to see that they had to change this law even though it had to go in the package. Let's just say, 2005 was set up by the Professional Education Agency, and then whoever was doing these bill proposals was supposed to see that this department that's in the office is now moving into the agency. So, then it should have been given in the package, but not officially given, but given to people who know it, who are doing it, who are going to come up with it all the way. And now look, the main reason. Mrs. Zdenka. Mr. President, she keeps throwing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61301	Is that true?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61302	He keeps throwing. This is the Croatian Parliament, not the market. Thank you. And now look, basic questions. He says basic issues that need to be regulated by law refer to the name. If we will traditionally and Croatian better name the office than the agency. There is also a tradition in Croatia. And the Bureau if we're going to interpret it means research, institute, work and the agency means starting with the concept of an agent. So he serves either the minister, or the foreigners, or the clerks. Therefore, that reason is not right for you either. Imagine now that you change that it's not a hydrometeorological institution, it's a hydrometeorology agency. So no one would know on Croatian Radio or TV who is now predicting the time when the people learned that the Croatian hydrometeorological institute is giving that part. Therefore, that is no valid reason at all. And be careful, that's your basic question now. He says the basic issues that need to be regulated by law are your name, not the Bureau, but the agency. But I'm also saying that when you look from the point of view and from the Croatian language and meaning, it's obvious that there's not a very good reason. Valjani would have been the reason that you gave it all up in the package and that, I must correct the Secretary of State how the Law on textbooks has reached the agreement of all clubs here. Yes, except for the Croatian Party of Rights Club which has said openly what we are talking about now. So, these teachers, these teachers who prepare our executive students and students who achieve such results, they must also be teachers of curricula, making new curricula and programs where the scope will be appropriate and then the textbooks should go and not the same variant that we don't have six textbooks but we have three plus three, so it's not whose neck it is. So, all of this proves that there's not a very systematic approach to all of this, and it's questionable what it's going to be, whether it's going to be the same, that it's going to happen again when the government changes, so it's going to take 25 months to determine that it's not really good, so it's going to give in the first reading. And in the end it will all end up one big nothing because it moves from the wrong starting grounds who needs to come up with, who needs to implement, how and how this whole system and in that sense means the main interest should be the interest of students, the interest of students, not the interest of publishers and officials. As a result, it is doubtful that this law has been reached and that there is a legal view of a great deal of inadequacy, uncertainty or determination. Let's say, if we talk about this structure and the body of the institution, even though you say agencies. Watch out, you cannot say in paragraph 3 that you will have branches. So watch out, the branches have to say they'll be in cities, countys, which is how it'll be, and not all of it will be left to the statute that will be passed, and the number of directors and everything else. So this is a pure satisfaction of form, I doubt the reach of all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61303	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61304	Mr. President, I'm correcting the inaccuracies of colleagues who claim that reward winners, excellent students who receive prizes in various competitions should be the ones who create new laws. My daughter won several awards, she's sixteen years old, and I don't think she should be involved in the process of making the law. It is not in any case a mission or a role, or the task of good students who receive rewards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61305	For the HNS Club, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61306	There's no minister again. Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! If it were true what it says in the light of this law and it's about the functioning of the existing Institute of Education, then that would be really bad. According to this, it turns out that this institution could hardly work because it had no clear methodology for the implementation of professional training, it had inaccurate activities of established units, unclear responsibilities of the institutions, lack of regulation of the issue of consumer rights to education, undefined means of co-operation with levels of the education system, undefined issue of professional and pedagogical supervision, lack of legal capacity for the installation and development of national projects, and there are no defined monitoring elements, etc. But the law itself is not true. He says that point 7 of the argument initially states that the reason for the adoption of this law is the reason why an existing solution is a poor lack of legal capacity for the installation and development of national projects, for example the Croatian national educational standard. Thus, according to the law, the proposer does not have the legal capacity to develop national projects and, therefore, in the activities of the institutions, according to the law which is now in force, it states that the Institute establishes and develops "curriculum", designs curricula and programmes, participates in developing educational standards. Therefore, that argument is not true. But what is the problem? The main problem is that this institution has not actually been used in the past few years. He was not used as an independent professional institution or a semi-dependent professional institution because the minister did not need him. The minister should not have this institution because having an expert body as an institution always limits the possibilities of easy management. This professional body, of course, can make it difficult to limit the powers and ways of handling each minister, but it can certainly help if it is used in the right way. The Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia is a professional institution that needs to be developed, which should be given the opportunity to work and it has actually vegetationd for the past three years. She wasn't developing. I'm not saying that he, the institute at first, was able to conduct all the tasks he should, but he needed a chance, and that didn't happen. In recent years, the minister has acted without using the institution as an expert body that has 119 employees but mostly using various ad hoc appointed commissions that are dependent on him and which, of course, if not fit, can be replaced. And the institution, its infrastructure and its vertical cannot be replaced by an expert. And as the Ministry of Defence has its headquarters, such as the Ministry of the Interior, there are police who are the places where professional activities take place even though, of course, sometimes there are more policies, sometimes more than in the ministries themselves, but that is not what we seek, we seek to develop in a professional sense an independent institution that will assist the ministry. This time it's the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, and unfortunately this institution hasn't happened in years. This institution has certainly not been used by its 119 employees, one of whom is able to be a professional service of the Ministry in the field of education and education. So he just vegetationd without real opportunities to get a chance to work. We remember the story that, it is not a story but is therefore a real fact, that the Institute of Social Studies Ivo Pilar in the city of Zagreb received a job from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of 2.8 million kuna to monitor the implementation of the Croatian National Education Standard. Well, I'm not against some external institutions as some kind of correction getting the opportunity to participate. But neglecting the Institute of Education and giving 2.8 million budget money to an institution that "by the way" had never dealt with the Institute of Social Studies before, was not about the development of education but was about basic sociological research. So this job should certainly have been done by the Institute of Education, and the minister might have been able to do it in the first phase if he wasn't satisfied with selecting some external institutions that would have done it, but that job at that stage certainly could have worked better than the Institute for Social Research and it didn't happen. And that's the problem. The Institute of Education has not been used as a professional independent institution, and unfortunately, throughout the country, we do not have a culture of disseminating the profession and politics so that the profession does not interfere in politics, and politics does not interfere in the profession and there is some kind of fruitful cooperation between them. Of course, it's not easy to develop, but over the past few years in this system, the education system hasn't even tried. The Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia, with all the shortcomings that can be attributed to it, he was not at all tried to be developed as an expert institution that will professionally help the Ministry and thus save him from some mistakes. He was completely excluded from, for example, the biggest project so far that the Ministry has had, and this is the development of a Croatian national educational standard. And that's what it is, which is the problem and this law unfortunately wants to sanction and bring almost to an end. What's this about? Under the current law, the Institute determines and develops "curriculum". It determines and develops "curriculum", draws up curricula, designs catalogues and determines the teaching methodology. He was probably a legislator, and he didn't think the Bureau was doing it as a last resort. But, of course, the last decision in this regard should be made by the Ministry. But these are the very clear powers of the Institute, the establishment and development of the "curriculum", the development of the programme, and in the bill, the powers of the Agency are relativised. So it says that the Agency does not produce "curriculum" but participates in the development, development and implementation of national "curriculum" which means that it is not its strict obligation to be the main expert body of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. She's just giving an opinion on the programs. So who else is going to make programs than the people who work at the Bureau? Well, then we're just opening up the possibility of parallelism, Mr. Walkie. You're talking about parallelism. Well, then we'll just open up the parallelism. We have an institution that will do all this, but actually the Ministry will have some other ways of paralleling both the programs and making "curricula". And that's what's the problem here. We need to develop that office. I am in favour of the minister having some opportunities to engage parallel control mechanisms in this work. But to ignore a very important institution with 119 and to plan to employ another 15 employees this year, so 134 employees are a large institution, an important institution. If these people may as well object and think in the old way they should be educated themselves, but they cannot be educated by this institution that is as important as it costs the state budget to put aside, which is what I fear is the fundamental intensity of this law. Here are the other issues concerning technique, more or less the same, except that the administrative council no longer appoints the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but rather the minister. Therefore, it is said about the independence of this agency in relation to the ministry, and in fact in one very important power, which is the appointment of a council agency is more dependent on the ministry, it is less independent, because its body is the main, administrative council appointed by the minister rather than the Government of the Republic of Croatia as it has so far. Therefore, an explanation of the institution's greater independence, the agency has not been affected. The administrative board, director, assistant directors, secretaries have more or less the same powers, the same method of appointment. But there's no council of advisors anymore as a taste of the profession in the office as a mandatory body. So far, there has been a council of counselors as a mandatory body, so a capital letter written in the Law on Educational Education. Now it's gone. It is now possible to set up advisory bodies which, in my opinion, is also one step back in terms of affirmation, the independence of the profession that should be a service to the ministry that makes final, political decisions that should be in all our systems and in this system. What should be commended in this law is that the shift relative to what has been so far, and that is the expert-pedagogical supervision that is first defined a little more precisely. In the present institution, the Law on the Institute of Education, expert-pedagogical supervision as one of the very important activities of the Institute, and this will also be the important activity of the Agency was not legally defined at all. He was completely left to lower implementing acts. Here he defines what is good in some of the most basic lines how much of the law should be defined. But it should be more precisely mentioned, defined and professionally improved, dynamics, methods, methods, professional advancement in our primary and secondary schools is completely undefined. In fact, you don't even know how teachers are making progress. They are not stimulated for this, and it is one of the problems of not the quality of the complete teaching process. You have a teacher who starts at the beginning of his working life and ends up in the same position he was in, because he's not stimulated to advance. If someone is not stimulated to advance, then it can be difficult to be stimulated for the quality of doing his job, except, of course, his private relationships with work, love, etc. But we're not here to just encourage love, but to create legal assumptions, to stimulate people to do their job better. Therefore, in this law it should be more precise to define both professional training and professional advancement, but also to carry out expert examinations, and possibly some of the things that are not defined in the law. The proposer has decided to expand the system of institutions. So, instead of the Institute of Education, we already have an agency for the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, we have a professional education agency. The establishment of a lifelong learning agency is under preparation. It's, of course, one of the models. He can't get anything in advance and the Priory can't object. Of course, these agencies should be monitored, but what is the problem with this law is that there is not a single word about how these agencies should cooperate with each other. It is written in the reasoning of the law as the ambition of the legislator, but there is no letter in the legal text about it and that is the thing that should try to regulate it by the second reading anyway. So this is one of the attempts that should certainly be allowed to develop in another reading. The club of HNS representatives will therefore support this proposal in the first reading, but if these basic things we talked about are not solved in the way we think we should then we will find it difficult to support this law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61307	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is one rule that speaks of the quality of the legislative proposal coming from the government, one legality, and that is the minister's presence in the debate when it comes to his bill. The minister is gone again, and he is there when he can be proud of some legal proposal, so he can be commended. When it can't be sent by respected secretary of state with all due respect to them to pull it out and pull it out as they know and can. The Institute of Education existed long ago in the Republic of Croatia. Then it was suspended by Minister Ljilja Vokic and included in her ministry. In 2002, he revived the Institute of Education, and now he's abolished. It is abolished and an education and education agency is established. Okay. All right. Okay. Why don't you call the agency, and why would you call the office? There's a reason for that. We respect these reasons, so be it. Finally, some new tasks that have been put before the agency, or former institutions, have also arisen, and the legislative framework needs to be amended. Now, how do you do it? It could have been done in two ways. Amendments and additions to the law could be made, the name of the institution in these amendments and additions, and new jobs to be placed before the Agency or could be taken to new laws. If things had gone the first way, we would have seen the differences more clearly. This is how it is necessary to find an old regulation, compare the provisions of the old and new regulations, so that it can understand why it went this other way. In fact, as with the textbook, everything is taken out of the hands of the profession and puts it into the hands of the minister, and that seems to me to be the basic motive for proposing such a law. Thus, Article 2 says the founder of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and responsibilities of the founders are carried out by the ministry in charge of education affairs. And this work was done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the Institute of Education. So now it's a little unclear why bring it down to the minister's rank. Because no explanation has been given for that in the bill of law. Many provisions are far more inaccurate than those that exist in the School Office Act. For example. It's now said, "The agency's setting up the departments.", if any departments. It was written in the old law by the Mandatory Department for the Development of Girls and Research, the Department for Professional and Pedagogical Assistance and Sustainable Education, the Department for Professional Education, the Department for Information and Documentation Activities and the publishing, and, if necessary, other departments. It's out now. It says, "The agency has branches.". But where? Well it was written earlier in Zagreb, Split and Osijek and, if necessary, in other cities. The board of directors, presidents and members of the board of directors shall appoint and resolve the minister. It's the latest solution. This was first done by the Government for the Educational Institute on a proposal from the minister. Now, that's what puts the minister himself in charge. Now, directors are appointed and resolved by this administrative council appointed by the minister. So the minister decides indirectly about the director, about everything. As with the textbook, the minister decides. And there are no conditions legally laid down for the appointment of a board of directors, or for a board of directors. The directors wrote in the old law: "The director may be appointed a person who meets the conditions for senior advisors under the provisions of this law.". Now there's no provision. He can be appointed director of anyone. A council of directors appointed by the minister. So who do you think will be decided by the administrative council appointed and resolved by the minister? So it's administrative for that principal the minister suggested. And what else? Now he doesn't even have to be an expert because it's deliberately out of the law. It can be a completely political person. Because you've thrown out this provision that even, that it must have the conditions of at least a senior advisor. It's said the director of the agency has assistants, but they don't say their number. How many assistants? Two, eight, twenty, fifty? How many assistants does the principal have? As long as the minister approves of him. And how much will they grant him? And how many of your friends should be put there. That's how much he'll get approved. How much else? The number of assistant directors, the manner, the procedure and the conditions for appointment and the part-rounding of their work shall be governed by the statute of the Agency. And now I come up with a whole series of articles where everything that needs to be determined is transferred to the statutes. And the adoption of the statutes is again in the jurisdiction of the administrative council, and the administrative council is in the hands of the minister. The agency has a secretary. The Statute will determine both the choice and the part-time work of the secretary, as well as the conditions to be met. The Agency may have expert and advisory bodies, as well as the composition and method of establishment and the work of professional and advisory bodies, all of this shall be governed by the statute of the Board of Administrative which is appointed by the Minister. The Agency’s professional work shall be carried out by advisers and senior advisers. Okay. That's how it's been so far. That's the way it's supposed to be. What about the terms? The old law stated that for a counselor, or senior advisor, a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, a suitable study for the acquisition of high professional training, meets the other conditions laid down by the Statute of the Institute. In addition to the terms and conditions, these listed advisers must have at least 5 and a senior adviser shall have at least 10 years of work experience in the jobs of education and education. Councilors and senior advisors shall be selected on the basis of a public tender. The selection procedure of advisers and senior advisers shall be governed by the Statute. So we have some sort of a list of conditions for those advisors. Now what does it say? It doesn't say anything. Simply, counselors do not actually have any conditions for whom they can be chosen as advisers. It is said that an agency worker, if in conflict of interest, must not be the author of a plan and programme, i.e. the curriculum and programme, as well as the author of textbooks or manuals. Look, as soon as he's in the agency, unless he's a porter or a cleaning lady, but to assume that the porter and cleaning lady won't write textbooks. As soon as he's in the agency he's in conflict of interest. But you could at least write that the president of the board, members of the board of directors, directors and his assistants, advisors and senior advisors couldn't write textbooks. However, whether there is a conflict of interest or no conflict of interest, it will be determined by the statute of the agency that brings the administrative council appointed by the minister. So the minister will decide indirectly who is in conflict of interest. Besides having a body here in the Parliament that decides on conflict of interest. It was the same in the textbook. In this bill of law, the minister took all the powers into his own hands. It has been shown that he does not need this agency as an expert body, an independent, auxiliary body that will prepare him for expert decisions that he will verify as a minister. He needs this as a polygon of his own. As they will decide on textbooks, so they will decide on everything and in this, this agency, from the agency's composition, from the way it works, on the expertise of professional associates, on whether they can work there, can't work to whether they are in conflict of interest or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61309	Thank you. At 11 o'clock and 18 minutes, it's time to apply for a debate on this agenda point. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. I think it is important in this debate to point out that when a state like ours is so clearly committed to education as its perspective, then every effort should be welcomed to improve the quality of education. I and this Law on the Education and Education Agency, regardless of its shortcomings, understand in this context, as one effort to raise the quality of education in our country to a higher level. Likewise, I think it is important to point out the fact that we all need to be happy together, which is that in some way the concept of education is being introduced, because in the past it seems to me that there has really been too little talk about education, and in some ways the school has started to figure out more or less as an educational institution, which may have in some way been favourable to increasing violence in schools, violence among students, but also violence of students towards teachers. I think the agency should give an answer, but also help the teacher prevent such situations. On the other hand, help him when violence occurs and in some way help the teacher to heal the effects of such violence. Of course, agencies and schools cannot replace the role of a family in rearing, but they can be complementary to the development of a child as a whole. I say through the debate we had on the parent board and in this debate that has been held so far, it has clearly proved that this law is flawed, but we have also heard the proposal that this law be corrected until the second reading. For this reason, as a contribution to this debate, I think it is important to say that an additional effort should be made to better and better professionally perfect the teacher, not only through the programme of this newly established agency but also through licensed programs of professional associations, which I think all the clubs who discussed on this topic have also given support. The same way should be defined for a clearer, more quality teacher advancement. The fact is that the teacher's staff is underpaid, but it's not the only one that's been bribed in this country. Over the years, unfortunately, this led to this advisory act being given to a teacher instead of taking part in years of work in a classroom with a better coefficient and higher salary, and that counselors were indeed the ones who earned it professionally and by working methods and success in the classroom regardless of the years they spent in the classroom. All should also be for an agency that will be set up in a way and that we already see by law what departments and branches will be, and not only that these structural elements are organised by the statute. I think it is important to point out that in cooperation with the existing, i.e. the existing agencies, hence the Professional Education Agency, the Science and Higher Education Agency, the External Education Centro and the Future Life Insurance Agency, that we must actually provide an orderly education system that will at the same time be encouraged for all participants in the educational process, but also enable education for all under equal conditions. We have already heard a lot of things in the debate in order to separate counselling from the supervisory profession, because we are truly aware that the future teacher does not have enough degree of education after leaving the university, and we do not mention the fact that in a large number of Croatian schools, he still maintains a staff that does not have adequate educational quality. So a counselor actually counseling a teacher can help improve the quality of teaching that results in better student success, of course in terms of the adoption of knowledge and skills and competences, not getting the grade itself. Of course, the supervisor has a completely different role, and his powers and consequences of his findings need to be clearly prescribed by this law, which by the statutes of the agency itself. It was also said, I think it is important to point out that the agency should be autonomous in its actions, such as this. and the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. If we want it to be autonomous, then let us write down what conditions the Director must have, how and in what way the Administrative Council chooses, which professional qualifications for certain segments of work should be given to members of the Governing Council, we should actually free this law from the over-influence of the Minister not because the Minister is not competent but because it is finally time to show that there are other mechanisms in our society, and not only those state authorities. So I really hope that everything that will be said affirmably today in the debate on the establishment of this agency will be found in another reading of this law, as has been done so far on some other issues, and that we will actually receive in the second reading one agency, the Education and Education Agency, which will be more adequate to its name. Therefore, the law should include elements concerning the impact of the agency on education, i.e. how to reintegration into the teaching process and in schools, I think without further question a couple of excellence in modern society, and I also hope that all these proposals will be respected, that this law will be quality and that it will indeed enable an autonomous organisation that will ultimately aim at improving the quality of the education system in Croatia as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61311	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Maria Lugaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61312	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Although I was speaking on behalf of the SDP club only a few more perhaps individual comments regarding individual articles make it more appropriate to speak on a single name than on behalf of the club especially when it comes to the debate in the first reading. By now, I have personally said to my party colleagues, I think it is quite important that before we go to develop a new institution, we position differently in this system of education infrastructure to get a sort of review of what everything is going to be done in the system itself. We still, colleagues and colleagues, do not have defined goals of education system today in Croatia. At least not in one way that would be legally justified. In this regard, the objectives of primary and secondary schools are defined by law, and the law has not changed in this respect. And we're doing some kind of systems parallelly, we're taking some measures that, I repeat, have very often questionable professional justification and legitimacy, and on the other hand we're trying to justify all of this with some kind of great expertise. There has been a lot of debate here so far about whether to change the name of the Bureau, or whether it is appropriate to rename the Institute to the Agency. I mean, you should say, there are certain and fashion in those appointments every so many times. Now it's pretty trendy, calling it agencies in Europe. The name of the agency is recognizable in this regard in these international scales, in this cooperation that is important to us. However, if we think that by renaming an agency, we will also get an institution that performs and functions of a national agency related to these tasks that should be carried out in accordance with European and world standards, I think we are wrong. It is much more important than the renaming itself to redefine activities and place things in the agency itself, that is, an existing institution than it is just a name. It has been pointed out several times already here, and I think it should say one more time, but much more important than that, I think the Ministry must include it in legislative provisions, the fact that the Agency really has to, but without any fences, without any doubt and without any reservations, the Agency must become the key development of institutions as regards general education and education, therefore, primary school, high school, means everything that is not vocational secondary school. These key decisions, I think, are well noted by my colleague Rados, there must be no decision by the ministry, which is eventually signed by the minister, but these are primarily professional decisions and must not be made in any way by the ministry which is always one way or another politically colored. All the professional objections that we have about HNOS today, all the professional recommendations relating to the formation of a pedagogical standard and new curricula and programmes that have been launched by the ministry are precisely trying because these bodies have been appointed as a good part and politically bound by the minister, not simply by the fact that someone has a professional legitimacy to do such a thing. And that professional ID should have one of these national agencies right now. One perhaps bad example, is not to be reminded, for example, of the people who were in the knowledge catalogue committees who later came out of HNOS who disagreed with some majority opinion of the ministerial advisors were simply relieved of the commission itself. Such matters should be avoided and therefore the Agency should be positioned as a key, professional and only a professional place of decision concerning curricula, i.e. changes in curricula and programmes, making new curricula, pedagogical standards and all the contents of the school's work. For the purpose of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The law should define which departments are established in the Agency. I agree that the law is quite a firm solution, that it is quite difficult to change, that time sets certain conditions. But it can be set up in a second reading and quite flexible. Say type, these suits are mandatory, and some other ones can be established in accordance with current needs, changes, etc. But some basic departments that correspond to basic activities I think we should define in the law itself. I primarily think about the Department of Monitoring and Development of Curricula, the Department of Research and Development, and you already know which departments they are. Second, regarding Article 9, there are already some, a good part of the colleagues said, the composition of the Governing Council. I think we should define at least by structure who's going to do that council, how many employees they're going to be, whether they're going to be employees of the ministry, of these agencies, of those agencies at all. Will it be teachers, from which part of school they come, what qualifications are they? I think we should define it in the law as well as the fact that it's actually going to even appoint, is that a public call, is that a contest. It's not enough to write we have an administrative council, appointed by the minister and point. It needs to be defined in the law. As regards Articles 11, 12 and 13 it is also necessary to define professional and professional competences for the Director, as assistant director. Define how many assistant directors we have, what are their powers, what are the relations of assistant directors and directors. Because there have been some situations in the past that have been quite slow so far. I'm not saying we should, it was in our own time when we passed the last Law on the Institute that it had to be a PhD in science, etc., but I ask you to counter the fact that most of the modern profiles that came from the field of educational sciences that were only in some way at the beginning, we just started two years ago the first postgraduate study from that area were younger people. People who have passed education are younger people, they don't have L0, 15 years of internships, and they're actually more qualified than those old school educators with a lot of internships. This is worth the same observation for advisory and senior advisory posts because I am afraid we are losing a good part of younger qualified people due to formal provisions on the number of years of internships even though they have better and formal qualifications and even some experience and additional education. I mean, if we promote a system based on competences, if we promote a system based on continuous training and lifelong learning, then we have to do it ourselves in our own system, not stick to some rules. Fourthly, I think that as far as Article 15 is concerned, it is necessary to define more precisely what professional and advisory bodies are. Now he writes a provision that it can, that the Agency can have professional, advisory bodies. I think indeed, I think that there is, in Slovenia, advice that all counselors, senior advisors, should, at least, define it with fundamental powers, even though it should be flexible to put in place that, given certain tasks that occur during certain time periods in the Institute, i.e. in the Agency, it is possible to form some ad hoc commissions, i.e. bodies. Already, colleagues have said, Article 17, to write conditions for advisers and for several advisers, and that same observation of years of internships and everything else is worth it. Because we're underpaid by people in school. People at the Bureau who work, who should sort of introduce innovations, who should motivate people in class, teachers, teachers, we have people who are frustrated again, who won't work. Without it, there is no way we can make changes to the education system without satisfied, competent teachers, and then even more satisfied and more competent advisers and senior advisers in the ministry. I think we've somehow agreed that the post of supervisor's advisor should be separated and that there will be no further dispute. Col. Šetić mentioned in Article 18 a new term for teacher-teacher is being introduced. I understand what this is about, but I think it would be good to define it in some way in the law. It's a good institution, and it's good to spread education so handsomely, but it should also be solved. The conflict of interest is very interesting, i.e. completely unclearly resolved in Article 21 of the Law. I mean, agency worker if he's in conflict of interest, he can't be the author of the plan and the program, or the curriculum and the program as... textbooks and manuals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, we have one circulatory definition where we define if it's a conflict of interest, then it's, if it's a conflict of interest. That needs to be clarified, and on the other hand, I don't know what agency employees should do if they shouldn't participate in adoption, I mean in these forms of curricula and programmes because it's their first task and it's not a conflict of interest if, I don't think I see what conflict of interest is. Under other regulations should not be authors of textbooks, therefore it is excluded, if the Agency's employee is not to be the author of textbooks, so he can write a curriculum and program, or participate in the creation of curricula, that... And it's not even a semantic sentence that's wrong, so you fix it a little bit until the second time you read it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a school question for the principals. It is also located somewhere in some kind of air, empty space and issues of the entire development infrastructure management of education seems to me also crucial and we do not start to form a special institution, and we will need to form it, so I think that we should also enter the activities of the office, or this agency, so that you think about it a little bit, if we at least formally throw away school for the principals. And finally, I think that it really needs to reduce the powers of the minister in a work where he must not be involved, it is professional issues and it is necessary to raise transparency, I understand what you have raised issues of simpler and more operational procedure, etc., but a simpler operational procedure should not go to the core of expertise, and not even the slightest doubt of politicisation, and so here we have therefore these provisions really need to be amended and really complemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61313	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, final Mr. Secretary of State Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61314	Here's my thanks, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished ladies' MPs, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Let me thank you, first and foremost, all of you and the clubs that participated in this debate. This is the first reading, we will consider all your proposals because here it is really about building the infrastructure of the education system and indeed it is a complex and joint job. I want to answer some questions here, though, or parts of thinking, concepts. First of all, why is the Bureau renamed as an agency? The name of the agency itself is because of the coordination with the entire system because we already have the Agency for Professional Education, which has been separated from the Institute because of the importance and great scope of the work that this agency has, and then we have the Agency for Science and Higher Education, you know that we have the Agency for External Evaluation, and there are some other agencies being prepared because exactly specialised systems have to deal with these issues in order to reach an independent solution, but I also want to say that the agency, or public institution, is the same as the institution so far, therefore more complex concerns. Also, Mr. Representative Jozo Rados says the minister does not need an office. No, that's not true. Minister, or Ministry, the Croatian Government needs an institution in every way. Well, this was about concepts like wandering, searching. Here in this House of Commons, we must say and remind ourselves of what we found in the ministry, what concepts. Of course, Croatian school is not as bad as we used to think about looking for some solutions, but ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that we have found two concepts, two strategies that have been written and which we have received from the ministry. One was the Minister of Strugar, and the other was the Deputy Prime Minister, or Mr. Pastulic wrote, and when you compare these two documents, it was difficult to reach some constructive and key solutions. One of the solutions that we found with the school office was a little clumsyly solved by speaking with a clear folk language because the Institute of Education was defined and almost looked like parallelism to the ministry, which is not good. The Institute of Education must be a professional parallelism, this force, but not a concept. It was a danger that came from such a solution. This solution that we now offer we think is better for Croatia, that it is more useful and that it will be able to perform exactly that function that is expected from the Institute of Education. Mr. Stazic pointed out that the Educational Institute is being abolished. No, I have to resolutely deny it, it's not true, it's growing into that subject's self-port and support for education. Here I fully agree with Mrs. Jelena Pavicic Vukičević, who says quality professional training of directors, teachers... Well, that's absolutely true, so with the dynamic changes in society and the amount of knowledge that we carry every day both as methods and as elements of knowledge so of course we have to work systematically and the Institute will have one important function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you follow the education that we conduct for teachers 49 schools that are in... apply the programme according to the Croatian national educational standard then you will see what these changes are in this education and where the Institute of Education and currently quality was included. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's also a tracking system. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we must admit one fact, Croatia has never had an independent external evaluation before. Now with the formation of the agency for this we will get a system that will be able to tell what quality Croatian education is. We only had values, but we didn't have independent and outwards. And including the Institute of Social Sciences Dr. Ivo Pilar in the first independent external measurement of the experiment is an attempt to stalking and quality the inclusion of an external institution that can do so. The moment we were looking for those who might do so is the only institute of social science Dr. Ivo Pilar had this strength and people who could carry out such a measurement. Of course we don't rule out, but we also encourage others who can get involved in the perspective because one of the thick flows of Western European civilization to measure everything it does, to measure the external imputements. Well, we have to include that in our system, and we do, and I am grateful to you all for the suggestions, because the pathways of looking for quality and structure and organizations and concepts are extremely important. Finally, Mrs Lugaric spoke about the goals of the educational system. I could answer that very complexly, but I'll only answer with a few hints. The plan of the education and education system published, which was adopted by the Croatian Government in 2005 to 2010, speaks more about it, but the goals of education and education today are also the dispensation of students and programs because we live at a time when a series of prevailing elements are found on one side of the system, but you will agree at an incredibly high speed of entering new knowledge that must also include this balance and harmonisation, which is one of the important goals in education that needs to be systematically done by someone. These institutions we're setting up, they're going to do it. I won't spread because I'm taking your time. I would just like to say in one more sentence that the Minister and the Ministry have a clear concept and aim at what is the role of the ministry and what the agencies are doing and all those transports that provide professional support to the ministry. We are very open here and you saw when we worked on the Croatian national educational standard that we included more than 600 experts in this programme of all events and over 150 reviews. We hide nothing or run away from it and we showed it on the Law on textbooks because we are deeply convinced that quality education is a chance for Croatia because the ultimate and greatest goal through education can come to a better quality of life, to a more competitive Croatia and to a richer society for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61315	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61316	It is incorrect that State Secretary Šetić said that he... strategies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, the fact is that two strategies were made, one of the educational council, one through the state office for Croatia in the 21st century, but in the end it was united in one document that you remember today, it seemed to me to be the "Source" and we all remembered it on those covers blue with some clouds if you could remember it easier, so there was one strategy that represented this one. Secondly, it's an incorrect allegation, and I'm hoping that by establishing this agency, we'll get an institution of evaluation. That's what we got for external evaluation. Third false quote. It's not true that Pilar is the only one with that capacity. In fact, there are centres for research and development of education that have just been the only expert in education policies. And the fourth incorrect quote related to the goals of education and education. It is incorrect to define this in these strategies, etc. This is defined by the law, in Articles 4, 5, 3, I do not know which, in the Law on primary education and the Law on secondary education, the objectives are defined. We haven't changed those provisions. So we haven't even redefined our goals. The fact that you're at the government level, the ministry about it, but it's still not the law in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61317	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61318	Well, I'd like to correct it. It seems to me to be an incorrect assumption that the ministry has a clear concept of what the ministry's job is and what the agency's doing. I mean, why do I think that's not quite true? That's exactly what my colleagues were warning you about. The minister's role in the formation has been overemphasised, in the management of this agency, which says that the affairs of administrative, legislative and professional activities are not clearly distinguished. It seems incorrect, therefore, and because you have now tried to interpret to us an idea that no one has or no concepts is against. I can only express my regret that last night or night before last, we passed the night before last, passed the law that abolished the Department of Social Affairs. This is a good road, but that road has to be confirmed by what it says. So, the clear demarcation of the minister and the institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61319	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61320	Proposal for a law on the Education and Education Agency. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the Education and Education Agency is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 78 for, 17 abstentions, the majority of the proposed conclusion was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61321	We're moving on to the point. - Proposal for a Declaration on Storm – Proposer Slaven Letica Proposer of the declaration is a representative of Slaven Letica. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of a declaration, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? He does. Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61322	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! I'm extremely pleased to see today's debate on the Storm Declaration. It's an old idea, and it's worth trying to convince a short story that precedes this individual proposal for a Storm Declaration so it doesn't turn out that I've acquired the fruits of other people's intellectual work. So, last year, ahead of the summer break and on the 10th anniversary of the Storm, deeply concerned about the attempt to revise contemporary Croatian history by Croatian journalists, part of Croatian journalists, The Hague Court's Prosecutor's Office, the whole series of quasi historians and scientists, I have tried to make clear in correspondence with Professor Damascus whether or not I should propose a declaration to this High House that might not be definitive but, in the long run, set the political stance of the Croatian state according to this great war operation to the winner. I was lucky to have talked to my colleague, Professor Andrija Hebrang, about this idea. He liked that idea. We met Dr. Ivo Sanader then, and he liked the idea very much. And he said to try a colleague of Hebrang and I to make a text that would eventually agree afterwards. I made the first sketch of the text, sent to fellow Hebrang, we agreed more or less, and Dr. Ivo Sanader asked Hebrang to collect the necessary number of signatures to go into the parliamentary procedure. I think 60 signatures were collected on that occasion. However, with my full understanding, the Prime Minister insisted that the original text formulations be a little tempered, I agreed. The task was very responsible and diligently done by Secretary of State Hido Biscevic, although I was not satisfied in shades with this new formulation of the Storm Declaration, I also agreed to it. I have even sufficiently agreed to the derogation from this compromise proposal because the Prime Minister has very politically ruled that perhaps a moment of very complicated expectations, high expectations of the European Union in relation to our negotiating perspectives, and I have understoodly accepted the resignation of the HDZ leadership from sending it into the procedure of this declaration. Finally, last year I decided to send the corrected text of the declaration individually to the parliamentary procedure encouraged again by Mirjana Damascus's views. I'll read you his opinion from the e-mail he sent me on December 12, 2005. He says, "Dear fellow Letica, it's been a great pleasure reading your draft declaration. I think it is an understandable reaction to anyone who loves Croatia, especially to Croats, who, like me, are at home from a distance and with a dose of romantic nostalgia." As Professor Damascus, one of the leading experts in criminal law and international criminal law, he explained in a series of correspondence with me the reasons why this House should be submitted, to adopt such a declaration. I'll only read you two, two slices from that extensive correspondence. In one letter, he says to me this way: "I agree with you that a possible finding that the storm was the fruit of a criminal association meant that Croatia was born in sin, so this would echo not only the international legitimacy of the Croatian state but also the Croatian self-awareness." The creation of a solid national identity requires that the creation of a state be viewed in a positive light. If George Washington were to be treated like a criminal, and under the laws of England then he was, in fact, it would certainly have had a negative impact on American psyche. In this regard, the claim that President Tudjman was one of the conspirators is particularly unpleasant and to some extent distasteful. It's actually an indirect accusation of a person who can no longer defend himself, and that is, although legally possible, ethically extremely problematic. And finally, as for money and the last, last-day debates on the compensation of part of the Serbian population, in fact, the Croats of Serbian, Croatian citizens, he draws attention in another correspondence to the possibility of seeking compensation if it is decided that "Storm" is a criminal enterprise. And he says like this: "I am reporting to you and because I am not sure that ours in Zagreb are quite clear possible civil legal consequences of the judicial finding that "Storm" is "criminal entertainment". If they find good lawyers, all Serbs who have not returned to the province could seek some compensation. The financial impact of this on the state budget could not stand." All in all on the trail of these thoughts I have suggested one by myself quite acceptable or from the point of view of the broad consensus of all people the acceptable text of the Declaration of Storm. Let me cut this short, I'm just going to show you the qualifications I've given in that Storm Declaration proposal. In the first point, I defined nature, purpose and course of action by saying that the military-redarative action of Storm began on August 4th 1995 at 5am. That it lasted 3 and a half days until 7 August 1995 at 6:00 p.m. The Serbian army confessed to defeating the act of surrender on August 8th 1995 at 19:00 when the commander in Vidujevac was in charge of 21st. Krajina Corps Colonel Cedomir Bulat surrendered to Croatian Army General Petar Stipetic by acknowledging the unconditional defeat of the Serb army and the unquestioned victory of the Croatian army. Respecting war rules and customs, the Croatian army's command left short arms on the occasion of captured Serb soldiers. All elements of this victory are further defined and the "Storm" defined in 7 bit points is defined. In point 2, I present the very precise international and legal legitimacy of this action. I must point out this great help to me was our ambassador, his Excellency Mario Nobilo, who, under the authority of the Prime Minister, provided me with all relevant international documents that justify the thesis of the unquestioned international legal legitimacy of that action. In point 3. "Storm" is defined as a winning action where the very precise data suggests that the self-inflicted Croatian army won the Western verdicts at that time by the third strongest communist army. The 4th element "Storm" is treated as an Allied anti-terrorist action. The elements of the alliance are of particular importance today and can be of great benefit to our court friends in the processes ahead of General Anti Gotovina, Markac, Cermak and others. Point 5, Storm is defined as a decisive battle. So decisive in terms of winning and turning in the war, but also decisive in terms of preventing further genocide projects by the Yugoslav People's Army of Serbian paramilitary formations in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. Six. The Storm is defined as an unforgettable battle. I'll read about it in writing. "It is the obligation of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian professional public, Croatian scientists and educational institutions and the media to "storm" over time to turn into a battle that is not to be forgotten and not to be forgotten. A decisive victory of the Homeland War, which will become part of Croatia's useful past for future generations." The preservation of the memory of "Storm" should, of course, include the right of all scientists, journalists, human rights activists and other people and, systematically, to investigate the dark sides and all military operations freely. Infringement of the provisions of war and humanitarian law, committing crime, human suffering and suffering. And the 7th bit optimistic or utopian there is defined "storm" as the last battle. The care of the memories of "Storm", the heroism and suffering of its participants, and the memory of the tragic opportunities in our country in the years that preceded it, the years of army and grand Serb aggression and terror are necessary for us and our neighbours not only to repeat the wars, return to our premises and to achieve all of us, the ideal for all of us to be recorded in history and remembered not only as winning and decisive but also as the last Croatian battle. This is a small addition to what you have received with extensive explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61323	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61324	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. On page 4, I would like to quote Mr Letica's text, an honourable representative, that by adopting the Declaration on "Storms" the Croatian Parliament does not wish to and cannot interfere in the work of the Hague tribunal, but through the content of the Declaration it calls into question a series of qualifications of Hague indictments in which "Storm" is qualified as a joint and criminal enterprise which participants and so on. There's no doubt about it, I'll say it right now, I absolutely am that this "Declaration" goes to another reading. I will say something later, perhaps, about a Hague court which clearly loses that original perhaps, under quotes, role after Milosevic's death, although here I fully agree with both the president of the state and with the Prime Minister in order to be deplaced to talk about his abolition because in some countries of the unfortunate Balkans it is difficult for a fair trial to be possible. Maybe it's kind of pretentious to talk about anti-terrorist action, but that's less important now. These dots are important. These 7 points of nature and purpose and course of action international legitimate action, winning action, Allied anti-terrorist action, decisive battle, unforgettable battle, last battle, etc. etc. In one part of the story is what happened after the Storm. I mean here, first of all, for unsuspecting arsons as well as some unnecessary killings of nearly 600 old men and women. According to the Croatian Helsinki Committee, and here Professor Letica also lists research by the dark sides, and all war operations, etc. etc. Clearly, the Storm was absolutely legitimate, and no one can argue. That is why no one should be tried and it is as clear as Mr Letica mentioned that these qualifications in the criminal enterprise are at least annoying and that these qualifications are equally offensive. Point 5, among other things, says more than 7,000 Bosniaks were killed in Srebrenica. The truth is over 8300, but I want to talk about the following, even through the prism of Ante Gotovina, which Mr. Letica mentioned on several occasions because the case may have been, in some ways, a paradigm, sending this declaration to the parliamentary procedure. I was the first to say that he must defend his credibility in The Hague as well as probably the only one that no funds should be formed for his defense until it was explained how the facility was financed, but I'll also say at any time that no one should be included in the general's defence. I will also say that General Gotovina for the qualification of this indictment is certainly not guilty, cannot be called for by a criminal enterprise, cannot be tied to ethnic cleansing, because the population has just retired and we know it. If it hadn't been for blood to the knee. How did that happen on another occasion? He can't be objected to for murder, but it's undeniable that after the 8th, 20,000 buildings were burned and as I said, the killings of 600 old men. But I also said that he was not in Croatia at the time, and that could have been prevented from burning, because then the Croatian Army was in the space of the so-called. The provinces had over 200,000 soldiers or, as Mr. Letica put it, 250,000 soldiers. Exactly if the population hadn't just retreated, I said there'd be blood to the knee. There's this army, the so-called army. The landscapes, according to Mr. Letica, had 50,000 soldiers, 200 tanks, 350 cannons, 25 rocket systems. That's what the data on page 9. How did that retreat happen on another occasion? What exactly do we want with this proposal? Are we going to help people who are in The Hague today or are trying to get them in some way into bigger trouble? Are we going to defend the truth, because let us not think that this debate is not followed by gentlemen in the European Union and in the United States and in the UK. Clearly in The Hague, but clearly both the defence and General Markac and General Cermak and Gotovina, as I said I would not allow Croatia to turn its hostage into an escape. But like I said, I would never pack anyone up on that Tito when he told Tudjman not to pack. I'm just a mortal, but I'll paraphrasise it. Cash has no right to pack for the sake of historical truth. If this declaration doesn't have that role, it means these historical truths, then it doesn't need to be adopted. Whether this declaration will be followed in The Hague, whether this debate will be followed by the lawyers told our generals, whether this debate benefits the Republic of Croatia. Croatia benefits if we clearly tell the truth, if we clearly falsify the facts it would harm Croatia, but through counterfeits it would also bury people who are in The Hague. We have no right to do that. Whoever bled his hands should answer, whether it's a general, a soldier, whether it's a soldier of the Croatian Army or so on. Areas etc. We may have to fill this declaration in some way, Mr. Leticia, in a way that, as you have tried in Point Six, we also condemn these crimes that were after Storm. We may also have to say in this decade what the Croatian judiciary did in the process of the crime after '95. We may also have to enter information to announce what the Croatian government has done in the reconstruction of unnecessarily destroyed buildings, and nearly 10,000 buildings have been renovated through various stages of reconstruction. We need to make it clear about the exodus of Serbs. We must also say how the return is going. We need to talk clearly about the exodus of Croats from that space before '92. Or '91. We need to talk about maybe minority standards, talk about Croatian injuries, disabled people, etc. So I said let this declaration go to another reading, I have absolutely nothing against but in some ways it complements just doing these historical truths and answering these questions. Today, we also have to fight for less equality than we have to fight and against oblivion from what the Homeland War means. We must fight with this declaration, I dare say for the return of the refugee population, but also for the dignity of those people who are in The Hague who have not bloodied their hands and finally this declaration in some way we must fight for co-existence in that space, for the life in that space, and not for the empty villages of the old men who return to where they were born and buried. I know today, and there are often discussions in the media. Talking about the Homeland War to many who did not directly participate in it sometimes seems deplaced. For those who today stand and notice, let's say that some who have been at war in front of them have some advantages that seem strange, but it must also be clear to all that if the Republic of Croatia is going to take care of someone then they must be disabled and clearly families of the victims. It means a lot to them. It's hard to answer all that. Mr. Letica suggested a serious text. There are several shortcomings and I believe that this one should respond to them regardless of what some of the former authorities may have been relieved after Gotovina found himself in The Hague, because they know that after that the process against any person from the territory of the Republic of Croatia has ended. I repeat, Croatia is not tried, it is tried by individuals. Let this go to another reading, let these few questions be answered, so the data on return, co-existence, restoration, minority problem, condemnation of the crime after the Storm. Although it would be best for historians to talk about it, but not politicians. The IDS Club supports this declaration, first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61325	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61326	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party club is looking at the proposed declaration in the context of the obligation of the Croatian state, Croatian government, all of us here and in the Croatian Parliament to take legal, political and diplomatic measures to bring down the monstrous indictments of the Hague prosecution against Croatian generals, Croatian defenders. Unfortunately, I'm not surprised the ruling majority won't accept this proposal either. And we know ourselves that in this area neither legal nor political, nor diplomatic, they have systematically taken neither the former nor the current government. If two letters don't count there. One letter from the former Prime Minister and one letter from the current Prime Minister. And that's why I'm pleading for a fact-finding debate about all this. The situation is of such a nature that the first trial begins, namely the groups of our generals, including General Praljak, General Petkovic and the group of others he calls so-called. The Bosnian group is going to The Hague on 24 April, the trial begins. We ourselves know that General Gotovina is in The Hague, and yet we do know for sure, last night I mentioned the report of the Council to prepare a friend of the court who found that they had no documents related to the preparation of the defense, or to prepare a friend of the court. That's a number of times Professor Damascus himself pointed out. We know how and how, thanks to Professor Letica and us from the HSP club, he accepted to be a member of that group. So for all of this to be done, we support the declaration, it takes a million euros. It takes a million euros for everything that is now being scattered, meaning registration and archive material, so I'm talking to the first documentary base, where this declaration is too. Because now history is written to us by Savo Strbac and history is written by Carla del Ponte. If we accept this, and do not make all the documentation, it is scattered by the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Interior, State Archives, Office of the President, Croatian Parliament, Government, State Archives and established the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the Homeland War. But unfortunately, nothing systemically done. It's all to be done in one collection. So the advice I'm talking about to prepare a friend of the court has found that only General Praljak who went along with that variant that the Croatian state told him to take care of the generals, he collected everything. And that's the basis now for the million-euro total documentation to be made, all arranged and used by General Gotovina and General Cermak and General Markac and all others. I'll just mention how that part of the cooperation goes. He was pretty bad when he was a former minister. She made her own announcement when General Gotovina was arrested that complete documentation had been collected and she was about to declare that she was eager to wait for the trial to begin. Unfortunately, it's a lie, it's a lie. I wish that was the way it was and that someone was denying me and that someone from the government would come and deny me. I'll tell you the case of a general who asked the Ministry of Justice, or this Department of Cooperation with an international criminal court, to deliver to him all the international contracts signed by the late president, or agreements, by the late President Tudjman, means as president of the state and head of state during the Homeland War, or signed by him. After a year, he won.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61327	Please, please, please, please, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61328	After a year, he got 3 and otherwise he has 227 international contracts. Afterwards, he asked the Ministry of Justice of this office to hit him with a clause of authenticity, because he cannot hand this part over to the Hague court to be used as defense arguments. Another general asked the Justice Department for all the orders he had made while he was in charge. They gave him 44, and this one here... 1,000 417. [[For the president's bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's a lot of examples like that. Very much so. So I plead to support this, and finally to understand one thing. That these charges are not only defended by General Gotovina, General Markac, General Praljak, General Petkovic, Ademi, Norac and others. They also defend the future of the Croatian state. They also defend the future of the Croatian state. If this country doesn't have a million euros to isolate it, it would finally be done, and it would be published, as we have suggested, "The White Book", so it would translate into all languages as Israel does, so it sent to all parliaments in the world. It means that we're promoting the truth about the Homeland War, not that Savo Strbac is falsifying history and the Hague tribunal. Special weight means criminal enterprise, ethnic cleansing. With an even worse situation concerning the indictments, say General Praljko, Petkovic and these others, because they will have an overall implications for Croatia's future, the issue of war damage. God forbid a single indictment with this content turns into a powerful verdict, which means $10 billion at least that Croatia will have to pay war damages to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, the situation is more than serious. And so I say, I plead to speak to you in fact, to bind the government, to say finally on behalf of all of us here, and the name of the Homeland War defense, so give that million euros, let's make that whole paperwork. Let us promote the truth about the Homeland War as it is, historically, not politically, and then we fight together that advice, or friends of the court can act. They haven't shown up yet, they haven't actually shown up yet. I say the trials begin. The register means this preparation advice among which is Prof. The thief found out it had nothing to do with the paperwork. So it's high time we took this issue seriously, that we're not talking here right now, it's not a matter of politics, it's a matter of responsible behavior here so that everything that needs to be dealt with for the defense, as well as this declaration that says what was "Storm" about how there was "Storm," as "Storm" as an action was carried out and that there were also international...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61329	Can you make it louder over there? Louder! One moment, Kovacevic. Come on, please, those who get so loud, make it even louder.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61330	So I ask you all to talk about it this way, and if you don't believe what I'm saying, let's make a committee here, let's look into the state of defense of all the Hague indictees that we have the right and obligation, and you will see that I am unfortunately telling the truth. I wish I wasn't telling the truth, that exactly what the former justice minister was saying last night is what some HDZ colleagues were saying, but unfortunately it's not. Mr. Andrija Hebrang here, too, knows Kreso Cosic, we all know that, but let's take these measures. Let's not have a political conversation. We can't discuss this politically. This is what we need right now. It's a situation now. It's not what it was. General Gotovina is in The Hague. He's in The Hague, General Gotovina. His defense should be prepared as well. How will the defense be prepared when the state doesn't do this? It means to form from both the Government and us a team that will be both logistics and financial and any other nature, it is the only solution. So I speak without politics. Let's be aware of the situation, let's not talk politically, unfortunately... The way I speak on behalf of the HSP club. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61331	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61332	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, of course, dear fellow Letica. So here is the long-standing silence of Croatian intellectuals, scientists, guardians of the historical building, institutions that were in the nature of things to be interested in this issue, fellow Letica decided to break up and, in our club HSS, proposed one text of the Declaration on "Storm", one document that has reason to discuss here today, to seriously consider, in any case, to miss another reading and to give an opportunity to say and do and in the way that this corresponds to a serious sovereign country, that this Parliament is showing about those things that in the last few years in Croatia government not only silence but one shyness and one hiding, one feeling that we simply said about some subjects. We were almost ashamed to use even the names of such ones. What's that reason? The latest events that took place in the context of the Hague tribunal and everything that is happening on the international political scene say that we had no reason to be so self-secure and so much to conceal not in the hearts, but in the sayings of what is clearly to be spoken of, but also of what should have been written, which was simply by the power and argument of this House which as a representative of the people had not only the right but also the duty to bring such a thing, to refer to the most important days, the most important events that certainly marked modern Croatia. Because I don't think there's any of us who won't say that "Storm" is a military-reduced action marked modern Croatia and that the unquestionableness of this military-reduced action, regardless of those who, in one way or another, want to always say something commendable about "Storm" and that they're also manifested in a positive sense, then the other part of the sentence ends: "the point, but they exist, there are both sides" and most of the other side of which, of course, I don't want to hide my eyes from the problem because there were, in every war, you know, there's a problem. As soon as someone attacks you, there's a problem because you're defending yourself, it's nature. But that other side can't shadow this first one that we want to determine ourselves about here today. Therefore, the Declaration of "Storm" regardless of which she could of course be discussed before in this House, to be discussed by me and by the Government or the Government, to be discussed both by clubs and club initiatives, is good that she came. It is good that she came because she says that there is no such thing as oblivion, but that we may be able to do a little differently through the debate on "Storm" also to discuss how our own actions affect what Croatia will look like, how those who are not here with us and who will simply send a message to the world, how we watch and how we appreciate what is most important to us. So we at the HSS Club hold that two things are necessary. First, the first reading in the context of the proposed material is a good framework for taking a stand on it. Of course, the political stance at this point is an argument to discuss this. The political attitude and political reason require that in the second reading this and not only be authorship or exclusive declaration of "Storm" of Professor Letica but that it be one broader document in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia should unquestionably be involved, this High House and, in a completely historical and factual way, try to set up everything that we mean is important for the defence not to "Storm" but to the historical truths and those relationships that have happened not to cover anything up, but that we do not inherit those thematics in which we always or almost always equalise the victim and the aggressor. Because it is often in our ways of thinking when we want to be more democratic than we really think or superior Europeans are. Then we usually act a little hypocritically, and then we say in one sentence we satisfy each other in the other and then on the document, but there's nothing from the attitude. Therefore, I think that the completely sober heads, politically clean because at this point, however, there is a situation that generates the ways and dynamics of the "Storm" debate and our storms are somewhat different. I think we have far more opportunities and also more political breadth, and in that width we do not need and we will definitely not have a negative impact on the course of negotiations with the European Union, nor on the Hague tribunal, which is ultimately the best one talking about itself. We don't need to talk about him, but we need to talk about these important opportunities that came in front of this House today. Therefore, we at the HSS Club will support this text of the proposal for a declaration of "Storm". Of course, we appeal that in the second reading it also appears to try a real, historical and factual document in which politics will not be the one that will be dominant but the facts and the elements on the basis of which I can rightly say that in the Croatian public, there is nevertheless a majority unbroken and pure opinion of the military-related action "Storm".
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61333	Thank you. HDZ Club, a respected representative, Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club assesses this text as positive. One positive effort that one way that would be acceptable to everyone is to talk about, especially the military-related action "Storm". We point out that the Declaration of Homeland War adopted by this Parliament on 13 October 2000 is one text that is comprehensive, not detached by individual actions talking about the Homeland War, and that emphasizes that the Republic of Croatia has conducted fair and legitimate, defensive and liberating, not aggressive and conquerive war against anyone in which it has defended its territory from major Serb aggression within internationally recognised borders. On the basis of the United Nations General Assembly Resolution, which speaks of the need for each state to establish a state, legal and constitutional order in each part of its territory. Both points 3 and 4, 5 and 6 speak clearly about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61335	A little louder so that on behalf of the Club, Mr. Bebić can hear as little as possible. Turn up your tone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61336	I think that the 2000 Declaration is comprehensive, that it speaks of the entire spectrum relating to the Homeland War on the right to establish constitutional and legal order and so on, so I would suggest that, in order not all of this is repeated, what others have been saying here. That this does not go into another reading but that this text submitted by Mr. Slaven Letica is the basis for a consensus that would be achieved in such a way that together with the proposer representatives of all parties in the Croatian Parliament try to create a generally acceptable text that would then be adopted not today because we do not have the time but to find such a group, determine, which will then propose to the Croatian Parliament that, if we agree, the text be accepted by consensus in the Croatian Parliament. Here, that would be our proposal, so I wouldn't explain it any further. I said we already have a Declaration, but I think that representatives of all parliamentary parties, together with the promoter, would try to find such a common text that could then be proposed and adopted in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61337	Thank you. Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61338	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the debate was made before this proposal by my colleague, Bebić, I will still express some of my general impression. I have a feeling that there is actually a slight discomfort among us about today's, these today's statements of fellow Letica. And right away, let me be clear when I say mild discomfort, then that discomfort should not be interpreted unequivocally. She can really take it two ways. It's actually that this Declaration is talking about something that's in itself being predicated and then there's not much more to say than that. But also this discomfort can result from the fact that we are actually opening one traumatic place of our history for, and again also to be honest, that some events after that justified, legitimate, military-redarative action have somehow put all of this into another plan and that we are becoming hostages of such perceptions that are also dominant in part of our public. And that's also a fact, and that's why maybe exactly what I'm saying is, this slight discomfort that then actually this topic is being talked about with some distance also with some backup. I will try to remind you that in 1935 a famous philosopher Edmund Huser wrote a great and significant text about the crisis in Europe. In 1935, he defined that the most dominant symptom of Europe's time was actually a crisis. And he found those reasons precisely in the culture of oblivion. He then made it very clear and loud that the culture of oblivion beat the culture of memory, memory. '35. For years, Hitler is in power, Stalin is in power and in fact... He was a very wise and clever man who really had a fair anti-citation of what was going to happen in Europe in a few years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps if people and the international community had been more careful to read this philosopher then perhaps they would have avoided what happened since '39. And on and on. These symptoms in Stalinism, these symptoms in Bolshevism... He was right and diagnosed, and he talked about them. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A fellow potter that's part of yours, then it comes later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61339	This form of communication is not desirable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61340	Exactly, I would not want Croatia to be a prisoner of the mind, to rule and that the culture of oblivion will win over the culture of memory. And that's exactly what I realize... My fellow Flyers as a man who just knows... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He knows exactly what the crisis means, he knows what the culture of oblivion means, and some way even though this was written for the past year, for the tenth anniversary to be seen, we have also made it as Parliament some way of passing through. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The more that there is nothing in this declaration that is questionable, the more it responds very clearly to this trauma of ours, the condemnation of all and every war crimes committed before, during and after the Storm. That's exactly what shows this very awareness that it's not written propaganda, that it's not written, that it's this very other part of the discomfort that always exists whenever we have to talk about war. It is in this sense that I join this initiative of my colleague Bebić and I think that we really need to start talking to each other in this way, which does not mean that those problems that are pressing us today and that are going to push us tomorrow that we should actually substitute them with historical memory and memory of what happened 11 years ago and that certainly has determined the history of modern democratic Croatia. I think that these very days, in fact, a different modern democratic multicultural, multi-conventional Croatia was created with a lot of misunderstandings, and precisely in this contribution and the HSLS club will make its full contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61341	Thank you. And respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61342	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm just going to say a little bit about this declaration of "Storm" that actually consists of a collection of everything that has already been drawn up in the Homeland War declaration. It is a declaration that speaks of "Storm", "Storms" as the crown of victory, as the crown of freedom in Croatia, as the crown of all that has been created and used in the fight against terrorism that has ruled in these areas, but only one question is being raised that concerns me as a participant of "Storms". Although this is a crown and crown operation, it is still before it so that it can be realized and made possible by other operations and so is the first operation to talk about the first available space in the Republic of Croatia... where they were made up of four counties, 3 counties that had their own special police and military units and freed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All the way to Pacrac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we were to move on... is also treated in The Hague as some kind of criminal operation, and for it should be a declaration for the summer of '95. And for the winter one and for the jump one and the jump two and for the maestral and for the south move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of these are operations that mattered to part of the Homeland War or ultimately freedom in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as the freedom of the people of Croatia, but also in Bosnia, not only Croatian but also Bosniak peoples. And so this initiative to put together a working group to assess how it should and should be a declaration of just "Storms" I think that if all the specifics of the Homeland War were implemented and that they had been carried out in the past, surely a different relationship between all of Croatia would be according to the Homeland War and not only should this initiative be carried out on the declaration "Storms". I will end with this, I welcome this initiative, it's all beautifully mentioned in it, but there are a lot of other operations, although this crown of everything they deserve is also a special declaration, so we need to think carefully about putting it under one hat and I welcome Mr. Bebić's initiative as president of our club to meet and think carefully about how it should look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61343	Replica, the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61344	Well, after the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Luka Bebic, I didn't mean to talk this through, but here's the replica I want to say some of my thoughts that I was encouraged by the presentation of my colleague Djakic. There is no problem in Croatia to bring this or that declaration, Croatia should bring a declaration of truth because in Croatia there is a theory of oblivion of '45. To this day. You see, fellow Djakic, a book of the black book of Communism has come out throughout the civilized world. Communism is one of the greatest evils. We have three evils, we have Nazism, Fascism and communism. In the entire World War II, some 46 million people were killed, Communism and Communism killed more than 120 million people. According to current data in China, this figure is between 75 million and 80 million people in the era of the cultural revolution, but this is not the final figure, so I advocate that we bring the declaration of truth to finally Croatian historians to the Croatian people and future Croatian generations to show what happened to us because we know, because we are witnesses of what happened in "Storm" to this most magnificent Croatian battle for national, social and state liberation from the enemy, but we still live in one state that is not in Europe. We Croats have not yet ended World War II and those who have put the embargo on the truth do not allow this 2nd World War to end because that is what we are talking about today in this storm. We must all be on "Storm" especially proud because after that only 2% of Croatian state territory remain under occupation. She's the battle of all battles, we all have to be sensitive to her on our side.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61347	Thank you. Final review of the esteemed representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61348	Your Honor, Mr. President! First of all, I feel the pleasure of living, yet the two - year work in this House is in some way honored by those who have not spoken and those who have spoken. First of all, I would like to thank all the clubs of Damir Kajin whose element or dilemma about how many elements of terrorism were indisputable they were also the newer testimony of Vasiljevic and the rocketling of the Ban Courts and the driving people from this High House to the basements to declare the independence of Croatia and the escape of people from this House, when it was decided there were many elements of terrorism there. I would therefore like to thank my colleague Kramaric, who pointed to a great anxiety, which is the diversity of the historical memories of different peoples. The Croats are the people who look ahead. It's got a lot of advantages. When I was in Dubrovnik, I was surprised they didn't want to keep any war scars. If such a tragedy had occurred to some other peoples who look at history and remember history there would have been at least five, six in the glass of sealed burning buildings and there would have been processes. So I thank Kramaric because this House of Highs has been very often silent, and it will have its own consequences. I would like to thank my colleagues from HSP who consistently supported and while I was a member of that club and later on the idea of creating a documentation centre to create a friendship of the court. And I would like to thank the vice president of this House of Wisdom, Luka Bebić, who has found a diplomatic way out of this situation. So the least I care about is the authorship of this idea. Right now, I'm giving up my authority, and I'm joining this multiparty team. I'd be glad to have the SDP in it and what's going to happen to the HNS, that's all I care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-31-0.u61349	Thank you. I'm concluding this Sui Genis debate. So the presidents of clubs with the proposing representative Slaven Letica will seek to find a consensual text that we can then adopt there on 10, 11 April. Now he'd interrupt the session and continue at 13.30 p.m. and we'd vote. And the proposal for a Declaration on "Storm", is proposed by Slaven Letica. On the bench you are given the final proposal for a declaration. I am voting on the final proposal for a declaration. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 64 votes for, five abstentions and 10 against, the proposed Storm Declaration was passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. 4. we will continue with the following points: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorney's Office, amending and supplementing the Law on Public Literature, and amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, and amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation in Internal Waters and the Law on Essential Accidents. The session was interrupted at 17.03 p.m.
