ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64694	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I guess our presence on this subject isn't about the importance of the subject, but I'd say timing, I hope so, but we'll see. The report on the work of the National Committee has been delivered and I believe that you will understand me, I think there is no need to explain, to convince his content, which I hope in itself is sufficiently understandable. The 2005 report covers only the initial phase of accession negotiations. This period in the work of the National Committee was used to establish basic organisational assumptions for the Committee's action, to adopt the necessary acts, used for arrangements on how to work within the Committee and to establish a good mechanism of cooperation, co-ordination with the State delegation and the negotiating group of the Republic of Croatia. The opening of negotiations in October 2005 began its first phase, the process of analytical review, the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, so-called "the European Union". screening that's still going on and expected to end somewhere I hope by the end of this year. Although the National Committee does not formally provide opinions, guidelines and other proposals and remarks at this stage of the screening process, it is already being submitted to the screening list for insight, the establishment of an informal cooperation mechanism with the negotiating group in such a way that the main negotiator and members of the negotiating group, the National Committee, report on the course of the screening process and clarify the content of the written manifestations of the Republic of Croatia. This enables the Committee to understand during this phase of the negotiation process, ensure agreement and harmonisation of views on some sensitive issues that may arise in certain chapters during the screening phase, which will no doubt be a complex subject of negotiations. This has proved useful, for example. in the debate on the issue of real estate acquisition, when an agreement has been reached that Croatia's statement to the European Union will delay this issue to reach a common Croatian position that should be reached by consensus. When it comes to the work of the National Committee, I would like to point out that the debates on the National Committee were led in a democratic and tolerated atmosphere. In addition, this is only possible if we want to achieve one of the basic objectives of the establishment of the National Committee, which is to maintain consensus support for Croatia's entry into the European Union and by consensus to come to a negotiating position on important issues of negotiations. When I talk about this, I want to say that in the next few days I will have to discuss with several members of the National Committee who are likely to participate relatively poorly in the work of the National Committee, and given the growing demand in the work of the National Committee, it will be necessary to review their further participation in the National Committee and I hope that I will have the understanding of both you colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Assembly. I would also like to stress that the current course of negotiations has shown through the initial discussions on certain important issues in the context of screening and debate on Croatian negotiating positions for the two first chapters of the negotiations that, with negotiations and the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis, even more important is implementation of commitments and accelerated reforms in all areas, as they depend on the course and dynamics of the negotiations and strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy under the conditions of future membership of the European Union. Let me remind you. The accession process to the European Union consists of three elements. Accession negotiations, adjustments we make in Croatia, i.e. the internal reforms and communication of Europe to citizens, i.e. the acquisition of public support. As regards the negotiations themselves in a narrow sense, they are making good progress at this initial stage, and without any fence, they can give a very high assessment of the work and expertise expressed and the ability of the main negotiator, members of the negotiating group and other experts who have participated in the ongoing negotiations, i.e. the screening process. The Committee is also pleased with the overall co-operation with the negotiating group headed by the negotiator given and the Head of State delegation. However, the negotiations are only one of the aspects of the accession process and their progress will depend at later stages on whether it simultaneously implements adaptation, concrete internal reforms and whether Croatia implements the commitments undertaken. This will also depend on the room of manoeuvre that the negotiators will have in the next very important phase of the negotiations. The Republic of Croatia is late in joining the European Union in relation to other countries in transition, and we are now in a situation where we must continue to move quickly and implement the necessary reforms, end negotiations and convince the public in favour of joining the European Union in a practically far shorter time than the countries that entered the European Union had to do in the previous round of its enlargement. It is an opportunity to achieve reforms and adjustments in a shorter time, but also the risk of... The negotiations assume their quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For Croatia's national interest, without a doubt, is much more important than the speed to conduct and conclude negotiations, as Croatia prepares to join the European Union, as it adapts itself, which means not exactly easy rules and standards of the European Union, it is simply important for us to pay as little as possible for entering the European Union and to get as much benefit as possible. We discussed this on several occasions and on the National Committee itself. The European Union will soon decide to start negotiations in key areas of national interest for Croatia such as agriculture, state aid and sensitive sectors such as shipbuilding, metal industry, fisheries, the environment, public procurement, movements of capital and within that acquisition of property. It is expected that some specific criteria or preconditions for opening negotiations will be laid down for the launch of negotiations on these areas. These preconditions may be either the adoption of certain additional regulations or the establishment of appropriate administrative capacity to implement certain measures or the adoption of certain programmes, strategies or measures in certain areas, and the assessment of whether Croatia has done what it has already had to do because it has undertaken this as an obligation. This will also be concrete criteria to show whether and how far away we have gone in adapting Croatia to the European Union in implementing adaptations and internal reforms in these and other areas. Croatia must quickly set general and global strategic objectives but must do so in individual economic sectors in order to improve the economy as much as possible in a relatively short time. Strategies are needed to define how to change the structure of the economy in the real sector and make it most competitive under the conditions of Croatia's future direct membership in the European Union. A clear industrial policy strategy and regional development strategy are needed. A rapid reform of the state administration is needed which will have to be able and motivated to implement these reforms. And above all, as we know, there is a need for urgent and thorough judicial reform. On the other hand, I would like to point out that we do not yet have a full economic analysis of the benefits and costs of membership in the European Union. We do not yet have an adequate assessment of the impact of this membership in the European Union on a particular sector of the economy or a particular region. We do not have a strategy wherever it is necessary to restructure and develop the economy by sectors and regions etc. We have a few years to full membership in the European Union and this is the only time we have to adapt and we need to make effective and qualitative use of it. Without it, we will enter the European Union unprepared with greater losses than necessary and with less benefit than possible. Because of this, the accession process for Croatia itself is more important than the date of entry into the European Union because it is the most important period for implementing decisive and specific measures that create conditions for better adaptation, economic growth, increased competitiveness and a more equal match with members of the European Union, and this ensures an ever-increasing life for citizens, which is absolutely the primary national interest. It is often heard, we want to join the European Union as soon as possible, we want to negotiate quickly. Yesterday, Prime Minister Sanader corrected some of those statements insisting that we need quick and quality negotiations. I'd agree with that note. We need them even faster. Faster and better quality preparation for Croatia's entry into the European Union for reasons I spoke about earlier. The quality of the integration process is therefore important to us. Finally, this is also important in the interests of the European Union. It is important for Croatia to complete this process successfully because it will thus get a new Member State with an orderly and competitive economy and a country that has increased the standard of living and safety of its citizens. Allow at the end two words about perception or communication, a relationship to the European Union in public. If there is no general perception of the benefits of joining the European Union, the issue of communication with citizens and public change will be a very difficult job. After all, it is the central issue of communication. Croatia must open a wide public debate on the Croatian Union because we have no doubt entered a period of calm reflection and debate on what are the advantages and what shortcomings of membership in the European Union. Regardless of this is not the primary task of the National Committee, we will try to do so in this period ahead of us and our own contribution. Citizens should be presented with a balanced and reasoned picture of the European Union and present the facts and give them a realistic and honest picture of the negotiations and the effects they will have on future membership so that through arguments they can conclude whether Croatia's membership in the European Union is not only a general and a national but also their individual interest, which I believe in personally. In the selection of several notes without convincing the report on the work of the National Committee I had the need to make these few remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64695	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64696	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome the Chief Negotiator of Ambassador Drobnjak! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate on the report on the work of the National Committee last year also provides us with an opportunity to give a broader assessment of the overall process of adaptation and approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. As regards the SDP Club itself, the report considers that it can read that the action of the Committee on the Monitoring of Negotiations in the last year has contributed to the achievement of two objectives. First, maintaining the political consensus of parliamentary and political parties on supporting Croatia's entry into the European Union. Secondly, strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the entire process of European integration and preparing the Croatian Parliament for the role and tasks it will have when Croatia joins the European Union. The National Committee made good use of the time from its establishment in January 2005 until the start of accession negotiations in October last year. All the necessary procedural acts have been prepared and adopted, the government and the negotiating team have been agreed, and the preparatory actions of the executive authority in the establishment of negotiating teams and institutions have been supervised. It was therefore possible to take place immediately after the start of the negotiations, i.e. their first phase of the so-called ‘Peace’. The national committee is actively involved in the process. The flow of information from the government and the negotiating team towards parliament was regular and meaningful, allowing normal work by the National Committee. Discussions at the National Committee sessions last year reflected the atmosphere of political understanding and were often more tolerated and constructive than is the custom in Croatian political life and political competition. We at the SDP Club hold that there are valid reasons for the National Committee's report on work in the last year to receive a passing and commendable assessment in this High House. And now we come to the hard part of our European story. I'm starting to ask questions: how do I proceed? Can the National Committee only be satisfied with technical and formal supervision of the negotiating process or should it also address broader issues of implementation of the overall reforms necessary for the successful training of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the Union? Can the National Committee be separated from Europe's communication process to its citizens? It seems to me that in the answers to these questions, the difference in SDP attitudes and the ruling coalition could already begin. We in the SDP firmly believe that the process of approaching the European Union is inextricably composed of at least 3 specifics; negotiations, reforms and communication. In each of these three components of the European integration process, we must be equally successful and convincing. The deficit in only one of them is irrevocably jeopardising the achievement of the overall European project and is challenging Croatia's European future. That is why we believe that the National Committee should be positioned as a parliamentary body that will consider, monitor, direct and contribute to the success of the whole process and all three of its dimensions. We would be pleased to see that such an assessment of the overall role of the National Committee is shared by other parliamentary clubs. In the SDP Club, we are unfortunately not convinced that the government is engaged equally in a balanced implementation and all three components of the European integration process. More and more evidence is that the government is focusing only on the negotiating process, trying to finish it as soon as possible. This justifies the fact that fast negotiations place Croatia among countries that will not be divided into those they have and those who do not have the perspective of membership. However, it seems to me that the real reason for trying to speed up negotiations is related to the pre-election calculations of the ruling ones. At the same time, the process of designing and implementing the internal reforms needed to prepare for membership has been significantly slowed down. And the implementation of the communication strategy is totally undetectable or non-existent. It is not immodest to say that the negotiations at this stage "screening" and cannot be but successful because to the greatest extent, what the former government has done in adapting national legislation to European and legal gain has been assessed. But very soon the negotiations will begin to discuss what and how quickly it should be done in the follow-up to the reform. And there, slowed and delayed reforms as implemented by this government could very quickly reflect the slowdown and delay the opening of certain negotiating chapters. Without rapid and quality reforms, there are no quick and high-quality negotiations. And that is why we warn that this link between negotiations and reforms is an inevitable condition for both the government and the negotiating team and the action of the National Committee. In order to make this reference to the need for a significantly more serious relationship with the implementation of reforms based on the European Union model so that all of this would not be just a principled nature, I will also offer a number of concrete evidence: firstly, in the part of the adaptation of Croatian legislation, but since the start of this Government's mandate, important slow work has been made to propose new laws in line with the acquis of the European Union. In the two years, 2002 and 2003, the previous Assembly adopted 98 such laws, of which only in 2003, which was the electoral and pre-election year of 65 laws. And then the adjustment business takes over the new government and the new Parliament and lowers the legislative efficiency to a double-lower level. 32 harmonised laws in 2004 and 30 harmonised laws in 2005 So in two years less European laws than the previous Assembly meeting brought them in a year. And this year, for the first quarter, it is foreseen in the National Programme for the Accession of Croatia to the European Union to adopt 9 European laws. However, the government did not send any of the only planned draft laws into the three-month procedure. The score is 9:0. I just don't know who. The only certainty is that the losers and the government are losing their reform credibility, as well as all those in Croatia who expect quick and successful adjustments. In addition to legislative inefficiencies, the ineffectiveness of the government is even more difficult. We still don't have a full economic analysis of the benefits and costs of membership. We do not have an assessment of the impact of membership on individual sectors of the economy or individual regions in Croatia. We do not have a strategy for restructuring and economic development in sectors and regions. We don't have a program to encourage and implement this restructuring. We don't have industrial policy. We don't have a full agricultural reform. We don't have a policy of even regional development. There is no continuation of the process of decentralisation, jurisdiction and funding of local and regional self-government. So we simply don't understand why and how to adapt, what and how to reform if we can't assess what's waiting for us in the Union? If we don't know where we're going, we're good every time. Furthermore, economic policy is not yet defined as a planned set of measures that would lead to greater competitiveness in the Croatian economy. And in the economy, competitiveness is everything. The National Competitiveness Council's proposal with 55 recommendations for increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy has long become forgotten paper rather than serving as a guide for the concreteisation of government economic policy. Even at the level of the basic model, a clear economic development strategy is not visible. Although measures of structural policy aimed at the development of concrete companies, sectors and regions have been shown to be far more effective for the GDP-level economy, the government has persistently adapted to the measures of monetary, financial and fiscal policies that are still in place in economies with very high gross social products. This concept of wandering has resulted in inappropriate and premature insistence on meeting the Mastricht criteria needed to introduce the EUR, not to join the European Union. The government still fails to show how successful it can be in judicial reform and the fight against corruption. For now, the existence of strategic definitions translated into descriptive documents wants to be seen as a guarantee that they will be implemented. And from the European Union, we have clear signals that the current mantra of full co-operation with the Hague court will replace the insistence on full and concrete implementation of judicial reforms and the reduction of corruption. Without which there is neither economic development nor membership. In building our ability to use pre-accession funds of the European Union, especially so-called Community programmes in the field of science, research, education, culture, young people are seen behind the situation that we will pay more money in these programmes in the longer term than we will be able to use them for projects that would help our adaptation to European criteria. In its accession partnership with the Croatian European Council last December, it identified 181 reform measures across a series of areas where reforms still need to be completed, in which a series of concrete measures are expected to be implemented. So this problem of implementing the reform points to not only the SDP but also to the government's warning by European institutions. Because of the above fact that the adjustment to Croatia's membership to the European Union is significantly slowing down and delaying, the SDP is very critical of the government's reform capacity. We are putting this criticism into place better and more effective preparations for membership in the European Union. We want to encourage the government to be more determined and credible when changing and starting Croatia. We only have a few years to join and it is the only time available to adjust. If we do not use it for the implementation of specific measures which will partly differ from recommendations and obligations that apply to members of the European Union, we will learn in the Union unprepared at far greater economic and social losses and costs than those objectively necessary. I repeat, the SDP will persist in its political action both within and outside the National Committee linking the negotiating and reform process because they are truly both connected and interdependent. We will continue to be critical of not implementing reforms and ignoring the communication strategy, so however many political rivals or some of the media are trying to portray it as harming the European consensus as the exit of the SDP from the Alliance for Europe or as the newly discovered euro skepticism of the SDP. We are the last party to go through a conviction and a move away from the European Union, and we have proved this and proved our worthy policy towards Europe. We are not against the Alliance for Europe, but we are even more of an alliance for European Croatia. We are not against fast and quality negotiations, but we are even more for rapid and quality adjustments and reforms. There are no disputes about the European Union for us, but there are enough reasons to argue about the speed and quality of the reforms they train us for membership, and we will not accept attempts to restrict any political party's participation in the Alliance for Europe only to give consent to any action or inaction of the Government in European integration, whatever it is. We can't accept the thesis, if you're in the Alliance for Europe, you have to support the government unspeakably, and if you criticize the government, then you're out of the alliance for Europe. The SDP does not collapse consensus in the European Union by warning of slow reforms, even as it only strengthens the content role of the alliance for Europe. The Alliance for Europe has been revived in the National Committee for us is the right place to discuss all these issues. However, if the prime minister continues to underestimate and downplay the constitutional role of the Croatian Parliament with statements such as those that there is not much work to be done on the National Committee we will know in the SDP how to protect the reputation and credibility of the National Committee if they do not already want to do so by the parliamentary majority. Argumented dialogue, especially in the national Parliament and the National Committee, is the right way to advance and negotiate and reform and communicate Europe to citizens. Therefore, the continuation of the work of the National Committee may and must be based only on such harmonised grounds, which will cover all the specifics of the process of approximation to the European Union. Finally, the SDP welcomes the work of the National Committee in the past year, and for what we do further, we suggest that the National Committee and the Parliament and the Government should make a significant effort to get Croatia into the European Union as best prepared as possible, rather than join as soon as possible. The good government can make both reforms and negotiations both high quality and fast. But this government doesn't show anything that it's a good government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64697	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64698	Thank you, Mr. President. So I think Mr. Neven's speech should be multiplied to show how inappropriate it is to talk about one topic. But I'm gonna stick to the corrections of an incorrect quote right now. I'll talk about it later in my debate. So it's not true that the smaller number of laws means less legal efficiency. That doesn't mean it depends on what kind of law is passed. So that's not true. Secondly, it is not true that there is no economic policy and that there are no economic policy measures. That's completely incorrect. There are a number of measures to encourage the economy, etc. It is not true that the fight against corruption is not effective and that there is no strategy in this fight. Of course, your ranks have not been reached by the obvious anti-corruption strategy seen from the behaviour of your mayor Gok Obersnel in Rijeka who has forgiven the debts of members of his headship, etc. It is quite clear that your ranks have not been reached. But she exists, Mr. Mimica! It is not true that it is a delay in accession to the European Union. There was no delay. It is your political address to the Croatian people and the evil use of the position on the National Committee which I will also talk about in my address.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64699	Second correction by the respected representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64700	I'm actually confused, since there is a whole series, the whole discussion of my colleague Mimice was one apocalyptic discussion of extreme suffocation which is contrary to the fundamental conclusions of the National Committee. Therefore, all he said in the conflict is with the report, especially the point of one on which his party's president, Mr. Ivica Racan, spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64701	The HDZ club is a respected representative, Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64702	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is the first Report of the National Committee in front of the Croatian Parliament and the name does not grieve the relative lack of interest of MPs because there are quite a small number of MPs in the assembly. However, we hope that this will be better in the future because the task of the National Committee is, among other things, that every 6 months after each country that holds the Presidency of the European Union ends its mandate, the National Committee will report to the Croatian Parliament and discuss in the Croatian Parliament what the National Committee has been doing, which have been problems and pointing to these problems. I also agree with the president of the National Committee that problems should be tackled by the National Committee. What problems? So here is the problem of adapting our legislation and going through and I don't see so many problems in this regard, and if we compare how many laws and laws have been passed before and how many laws so I don't suppose that those laws that have been passed will be passed again, so, by the logic of things, there are fewer laws left to pass, and there is not the amount of legislation in question, but the quality of the laws that are being prepared, and they will hope that one part of these laws will come before the Croatian Parliament by the end of this summer session. So, the atmosphere in the National Committee on Discussions that have so far been on the agenda, which was primarily a matter of screening, adapting and harmonising, or comparing our legislation, European legislation in certain areas has been successful. But one part of the committee, I must say, is quite uninterestingly following the committee's work. I guess it's not enough to fight on the board. I think some media are treating the work of the National Committee from a point of view as different or opposed to the position on the board. I do not think that the Committee's work should be at all costs harmonised, i.e. not to be working on a committee aimed at having different opinions there. But we express these different opinions in one way that I think is constructive, which is that within the board we discuss, we see problems, though, a small part so far is possible and we see and then we try to find a common position on it. This does not mean that we will hide the problems, that we will embellish them, that in some way we will retouch them, but that we are constructively discussing the problem because the aim is not only to agree on important issues. It is more to show one seriousness and consistency in relation to the process that we have towards our negotiators on the other hand. So, to reach a maximum consensus on important issues in order to give and support to a negotiating team that, in my opinion, has done a great job so far, I would say, my part of the job. They can also express their praise in some way to the main negotiator and the minister who runs the negotiating team and to all those who have participated in the work of the negotiating teams and who have well and quality informed the National Committee on these issues. But I'm also on the board, and I'm going to say here today that there shouldn't be some things here, especially here that Mr. Mimica has put out in such a dramatic and so undeservedly critical way to refer to the government. The government, or the negotiating team, the negotiating team and the government, or primarily the government, is doing well. Anticipating possible problems is good. dramatizing and prememinating possible problems is not good, but it is an attempt to create an alibi and that one day it can be said whether I was saying it. But Mr. Mimica, you've been talking for many years in the negotiation process. You were also in that government, Mateo's, and in this past, so you were the chief negotiator. And you, Mr Mimice, can now say that, otherwise you wouldn't have mentioned it if you hadn't expressed it so dramatically unnecessarily, that by negotiating a Stabilisation and Association Agreement you quickly concluded and made some decisions, that is to say, as in the form of a final agreement that we then assessed as an opposition with a hasty, swift and counting on the internal political effects, since this agreement was made several days before the local elections. So, among other things, we talked about the issue of real estate, which is the main problem, obviously with agriculture, fishing, etc. that it was more quality and better that it was extended to Stabilisation and Association negotiations, rather than to be speeded up before the local elections. And now you on the board are talking about how the negotiating team should be strong, it is necessary that it tries to negotiate more favourable positions in terms of real estate. And you gave the framework for this and we are obliged to adapt, that is, to stick to it. And not now, because we can open Pandora's box and talk about what could and what wasn't from the past. And we'll also talk about it and talk about how we'll schedule possible failures, so to speak, we'll also try to prove it as much as we could and didn't. You know? And now, in advance, speak in such a dramatic way about what the government is not doing, how there is no vision, etc., of this then. We'll see about that. We have a negotiating time, we have able negotiators, we have announced reforms, we have announced proposals for individual powers to resolve them and adapt to what awaits us in the European Union and that. I am one of those who spoke responsibly on the National Committee and suggested that the offer be also offered by the Government, that the National Committee make appropriate proposals and encourage the government to reforms like that. Because we are not prohibited, it is, we are the expression of the Parliament, therefore the Committee of Parliament, and we can propose to the Government permanent proposals and reforms, etc. in terms of how our negotiating position and our team could negotiate better and have one situation in the country's economy in certain branches that will actually make maximum adjustments and our opportunities to those we expect in the European Union. So I'm not against critical approach, but I'm against dramaticism. Especially from you, Mr. Mimica, who are one of the biggest actors in the entire journey. So if something isn't good, it's a fruit and your work, in my opinion, a successful work, but in some areas and a failure. That is why I think and suggest we support the National Committee's report on what we've done in the last few months since the establishment of the board. Negotiations were supposed to start early, they didn't, they started at the 10th month. In these five, six months, I think the board, the National Committee, has done a good part of its work. One part of the members of the National Committee worked very intensively and were at each session, one part did not and many did not come to the last few sessions I think it should, the board president announced talks with individuals, let him hold talks, if these talks do not deliver results, then we can propose a change of those people who are uninterested in the work of the board. In fact, I suggest that we be critical, that we be responsible, that we put certain issues on the agenda, that we try to continue to reach a consensus on important issues, not a consensus that would be based on some kind of crossover or avoidance of problems rather than an open, clear and constructive view of all problems, and that we negotiate that we have a stronger position as a state and that we do not overplay our problems internally and that they are the cause of Croatia's weaker positions in the negotiations. I'll say a few more words about the communication strategy. I am one of those who advocates that any problem that arises in the negotiations, and there will be enough, be presented objectively to the Croatian public. So that nothing hides from the Croatian public, because there is a referendum waiting for us in the end. Every phase of the negotiations must be, but there is also the responsibility of the media that should not seek out extreme situations or certain things that would trigger some reservations towards the process of negotiations with the European Union and neither to glorify, to glorify this path, and to negotiate and only in pink colors to paint that future European perspective, it is also the duty and the right of our citizens to know about all aspects of what awaits us in the European Union, the negative ones that will be where we will be worse, where we will find it harder to adapt and where we will go better and where we will negotiate well. So objective and systematic reporting of the Croatian public is necessary. I therefore call on the media in particular for Croatian television to be more interested, to maintain the various shows that will be, which will give people a basis for thinking and for identifying whether they are and how much they are for what Croatia does. So also to invite similar representatives of countries who have come this way, who already have a positive or do not know what experience to tell us about it. What would not the public farmers of Poland or Slovakia or some countries that are similar to us tell us about, that we do not have to go through what they have already been through, that we can take something ourselves from their experiences and adapt to our negotiations, our general position on certain issues that we will defend in negotiations with the European Union. So I support the report of the president of the National Committee, but I had to look back on such a dramatic and unnecessary way of saying, unnecessarily dramatic of what Mr. Mimica said here, and perhaps it would be far more convincing to base a little on what he's done so far and in a positive and negative sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64703	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64704	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect allegations of the respected Vice-President of the Parliament, that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was quickly negotiated and that anyone from the SDP, myself or anyone else, had now asked the negotiating team to correct those mistakes. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement itself does not open the real estate market because it is already liberalised by 97% of European Union citizens today. It is also not an exact claim that the whole speech was a dramaticization of what was done, because it was merely an indication of what was yet to be done. It is therefore better to take the warning as an incentive for reforms that are more necessary for the rapid implementation of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64705	HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64706	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Your Honor, Mr. Chief Negotiator. This is the first report of the National Committee and it actually gives us an opportunity to consider on the one hand the negotiation process so far, and on the other hand to consider the role of this National Committee so far. When the committee was formed, I called it a "supervisory" committee in a joke because I felt that this committee should be the one who oversees the negotiating process and who serves as the nation's own conscience in the negotiating process by warning negotiators and the Croatian government of individual deviations from the agreed objectives of the negotiating process, at least from agreed strategies if such strategies exist at all. When I visited the Danish Parliament in my time, I was impressed by the fact that the Danes have all agreed together with the enlargement of the Committee on European Integration, which was complemented by party leaders, and with the amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, it has even been given the authority to discuss some less important demands from Europe alone, not burdening the entire parliament and even voting on behalf of parliament because it has been empowered by parliament to do so. Also in Denmark, the communication strategy has also been resolved very pedanticly which we can only dream of here, which is that this same Committee on European Integration of the Danish Parliament has formed an extremely large information centre which serves as a database but literally everything regarding European regulation and practices in certain Member States not only for representatives and ministers but for every citizen of Denmark. That's all we can dream about. So these are the objectives where it should be, or in what way it would be ideal if this National Committee were to be led. He is, of course, very far away from that and in the first place because, after the magnificent signings, the consent of all parliamentary parties was given to a committee that was actually being marginalized month after month and which actually did not have that role that he would have had, or which he had to have in our court from the very beginning. We do not actually have a negotiating strategy for part of the negotiation process. I will say that we do not have a clear fisheries strategy, for example, but we also do not have for the good part of the negotiation process or economic assessment, which means if we agree to this or that request from the European Union. And that's why you'd refrain from assessing the great course of negotiations so far. I would be more prone to a healthy skepticism when it comes to how far Croatian successes are in these negotiations. The role of the National Committee was to be at this stage, therefore, the motivation of the Croatian government, the motivation of the negotiating team to develop negotiating strategies, i.e. to make economic assessments, i.e. to assess the effects of the negotiation process on individual branches of the Croatian economy. Of course, proper conditions are needed for some of these. If nothing else, the National Committee should have been informed, and I don't think so, whether we have any good information conditions for some of these negotiations. Before which we could hear that the Croatian state has not yet produced an ecologically sustainable maximum of fishing on our half of the European sea, i.e. in the future economic belt, so it is absolutely mysterious how the fisheries partnership negotiations with the European Union will be conducted. These things should have been reported to the National Committee. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. The most recent marginalisation of the National Committee took place in a series of partial negotiations with the European Union, which were conducted entirely past the National Committee, although they were in fact concerned by certain branches of the economy, i.e. individual segments of the negotiations with the Union. I shall give an example of Protocol 7 which has been completed without having been asked about the whole procedure at all by the National Committee. I will raise the question of trade in steel with the European Union. As you know, there is no mention of any quotas in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, no mention of any protection customs duties by the European Union, and yet Croatia was imposed a ridiculously small quota for the export of steel... Tires from Sisak of only 25 thousand tons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So one-fifth of the mammal's production is reportedly... the low prices of mammalian products, and since 1 February of last year, this ridiculously small quota for exports to the Union market has been abolished and no one has. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No National Committee has been consulted on that either. I will also mention here a heated debate on the initiative of the HSP Club on the government's acceptance to carry out partial negotiations with the European Union on the strategy for reforming the sugar market, i.e. on sugar trade with the European Union. I would like to remind you, this is about negotiations conducted with the European Union on the basis of a still unofficial strategy of the sugar market within the European Union which may become official if the European Union accepts it in July of this year. But regardless, Croatia did enter these negotiations, and what is particularly interesting, it entered those negotiations without consulting the National Committee at all. That's what we warned here not only about HSP at a parliamentary debate that we initiated on this issue but also about all the opposition clubs. The debate began, the debate was held, the debate was closed, and the National Committee was not consulted on this. Fortunately, it ended well and most of all because the minister accepted the negotiating model that we in HSP represented, which is not to defend annual exports as a quota but to defend production per hectare as a quota because it was indeed the best negotiating strategy and the European Union had no counterresponsibility as we had predicted, and that, behold, thank God, ended well. But the whole procedure, I remind you, was conducted without consulting the National Committee. The National Committee, therefore, for a whole series of disputed ones, and for Croatia, the extremely important partial negotiations with the European Union were not at all questioned. There are, of course, a whole series of issues that have been inherited from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is a specific feature of Croatia because none of the 10 new members have already had such a firmly defined framework of negotiations as Croatia has. All the others went more or less than zero. We're moving not from zero but in some places of minus 100, especially when it comes to real estate. And that was why it was really strange that so much energy and bile was spent at the National Committee meetings on the issue of real estate, although it was crystal clear that the issue was unfortunately cemented in the way it has already been cemented. On 1 February 2009, we must fully liberalise the market with some exceptions that can be imposed in order to protect public goods, but regardless of all this, there is a general stampede of buying real estate through the business creation of companies, i.e. through branches of European Union companies in Croatia. Unfortunately, again, the National Committee has not been consulted. The National Committee is also not consulted on the fact that Croatia is not in the European Union's budget for the "financial prospective" period until 2013. We can be comforted that Croatia may be rebalanced in 2009, but these are only our comforts. We're in this document, but there isn't. So no one in the European Union currently foresees Croatia's membership until 2013 and this is a subject that the National Committee also had to be shown. Of course, what is also mysterious is why the National Committee remained marginalized when it came to a whole series of amendments to the law. Therefore, the entry into the European Union means, along with the rest, the adaptation of the entire set of laws. We are, however, witnessing that under the company of that, therefore, under the designation "P.Z.E.", therefore, that it is a European adjustment to the law you can send to the Parliament whatever you want and all in the hope that most MPs will see it as a necessary and necessary adjustment to that part of the legislation to the European Union. So we witnessed at least four variants of the Telecommunications Act that each time had the label "P.Z.E." and each time it has been proven that this is exactly the final and best possible, precisely the genius variant that is fully in line with the European Regulation. When you read Aquis there and Aquis writes that Croatia does not actually have a political interest and has not yet shown it for the right liberalisation of telecommunications. If that were the case, you can see it day after day, not to mention this last affair with the takeover of ISCON by HT. But what I'm trying to say is, if it is a law that adapts to Croatia's European legislation, then it is expected that the National Committee must consult on this because it is, in fact, its essence. I will mention here and the Law on Lineship Transport, which has been pushed through the Parliament just under the pretext of allegedly agreeing with European legislation, to see that some parts of the law were actually written entirely beyond the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that Croatia, if we had not intervened with the amendments, could have passed a law that was unnecessaryly liberalised, even in relation to the very strict conditions imposed on us by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, for example when it comes to the entry of foreign shipmen or foreign sailors into our labour market. The role of the National Committee is therefore to be a motivating factor when it comes to building a strategy. It should also be the one consulted when it comes to disputed negotiations with the European Union, that the National Committee be consulted when it comes to the adjustments of the law and because it is designed precisely to be the nation's conscience when it comes to negotiations with the European Union. So we are interested in the systematicity, not the surface when it comes to negotiations, we are interested in responsibility, not the toasting approach when it comes to the European Union, we are interested in a clear and complete picture of Croatia's adaptation to the European Union. It is not, this image of Croatia's adaptation is not achieved with the emphasis of the Croatian flag, together with the flag of the European Union in the Croatian Parliament, because we are not a member of the European Union as far as I know it, but the ability to adapt Croatia is far better demonstrated to our partners in the European Union through more systematic approaches to negotiations, through more detailed analyses, through more thorough discussions and through full information not only from representatives, but also from Croatian citizens. All of this should be encouraged in turn by the National Committee, and on behalf of our club once again, I point out a sharp protest that the National Committee has been marginalized throughout a number of extremely important issues and that most of these issues have not been asked about, and should be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64707	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64708	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct the incorrect quote of my counterpart Tadic, who said that no one in the European Union predicts Croatia before 2013. That's just not true. A fellow Tadic that you are, that's another thing that we're not in the budget, that doesn't mean he doesn't predict us. If you had listened carefully to the Europarliamentaries or members of the European Commission then you would have heard that they expect Croatia long before 2013, or rather some are expecting it already in 2009, which is why we hope Croatia will be valued according to its own achievements, and the negotiations I will believe with such a high-quality negotiating team by the end of 2008, therefore there is no reason to doubt that we will probably be full members of the European Union by 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64709	And the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64710	Well, it is incorrect that the National Committee has not been consulted or that it has not been discussed on the National Committee with regard to real estate, i.e. the real estate market. In this sense, you mentioned the exact real estate in this respect, and in this sense I am correcting you with an incorrect assumption because it is incorrect and the National Committee has discussed it, discussed it in quality, and even carried out several very important initiatives in terms of resolving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64711	HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64712	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Smally, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HSLS Club have ambivalent feelings about this report. There is no doubt that it is a good thing that Parliament has formed its Committee which should indeed have this, as counterpart Tadic says, supervisory function and that Parliament, as the most legislative body of our country, is also controlling what the executive authority is doing and, on the other hand, Parliament is always much more free in many things to make certain decisions that we should then and can bind our negotiators, our government. But it certainly isn't the only function of this National Committee. It also seems to me that this National Committee should have this enlightening function, a motivating one. We have a feeling here that, in fact, there's a real impression that we all know what's waiting for us one day when we join the European Union. I think it's one wrong premise. I'm afraid that we don't really know what the problems are waiting for us, and then these very problems need in a very honest, transparent way to reveal to the nation and show that there are really good elements, that these good elements should be kept, but we also have a whole series of those very unpleasant situations waiting for us to see if these unpleasant situations, whether they can be fixed and what mechanisms to correct these inconveniences are that which are also publicly spoken, the real estate problem, the problem of fishing, and what we can do now is to respond to this particular complexity, European complexity to our own complexity. I think that's actually the real question of whether we are able to do it on a complexity that doesn't change in itself, which is the task, how we can arrange our relationships in society that could then be compatible with this something complex, something more complex or more level. And I'm afraid that's exactly where we're getting lost. We have that there are masters, that many of our, many of these good, noble intentions are actually emptied from all content. There is a consensus, and in the end it is a year and several days ago in parliament and whether or not a consensus back a few years that really does not have any more relevant political parties in Croatia that are against Croatia's entry into the European Union. And if that's the case, then we really don't think there's a pre-election campaign on this subject. Experiences from the past few weeks, months actually teach us and it turns out that it can also become a pre-election topic that actually brings us back to some beginning and once again shows that in fact that that consensus has been apparent and that it actually only works in some etho relatively neutral political time. As soon as that time is kind of starting to thicken up like this, as soon as the elections are coming to us, then it's actually showing that things aren't as good as we wanted them to and what we thought was when we formed a body like this. So, in the opinion of the HSLS Club, it would be very good for the National Committee to be the one to actively participate in the creation of public change and precisely in what is good to keep it and what is bad to see if it is possible to fix or ultimately say that some things simply have to be agreed because these are the rules of the game and these rules of the game after some time will give such results. It would also be good if, in some way, the committee instead of those disputes that we had in them about certain topics of our own that when I'm not about to be part of our daily public life, but it shows this passion and a different situation which then usually shows us our true face, I say when we approach some dramatic events and certainly this pre-election year is in some way and then suddenly shows a whole series of these differences that are not good at all and which do not use not so much in what happens in the European Union but actually do not use within our preparation to prepare ourselves as quickly as possible, which is more effective for what awaits us when we enter into this new environment, into the new community. It would also be good to know what the judgments themselves and the members of the National Committee and, in particular, the president are about our possible entry into the European Union. It would be very important for the members of the National Committee and, in particular, the president to have good contacts with these countries that were transitions, which in 2004, have entered the European Union, that precisely one of the ideas is that he is involved in creating a public change should be that we already have some other experience and that, on this road, we do not have to bring all the luggage that we need and already some other person's experience that we can use, indeed, by believing in the good international relations of all the members of the National Committee, and that all of us Parliamentarians are, in fact, very useful and certain contacts and some knowledge from these contacts which, in some way, would also not only be the mere lobbying that we are all doing through our own party associations but also these personal contacts and just the fact and that the authority of the Committee members and the Committee presidents who could also help in all of our public affairs and that this referendum that we are certainly waiting for us to be the EU to be able to achieve the EU's goal. So I say for sure that the writing of the report is always one genre like any genre literature has certain legalitys that cannot be skipped and looking from the genre aspect it is correctly written. But I'm saying, it seems to me that in this kind of thing we should have precisely and more to say outside of these standard sprinkles that are usually in such reports of use, then the Croatian Social and Liberal Party Club should take this report to the knowledge, and in some ways, it would like to appeal once again that there is no pre-election campaign going on, that the National Committee would indeed, in addition to this corrective role of supervision, also have this Motivative Enlightenment and ultimately be a little brave, in the sense that it should be involved in certain evaluations that I am saying just to help the public get information as soon as possible about how members of the National Committee, the parliamentary body look at these processes. But I'm not only saying it's so declarative that it's our goal but it's simply that there's certain criticism and certain analyticals and certain visions that, here, it's not pleasant to hear that we're not here in this financial forecast, but which certainly doesn't mean, I agree with my colleague Matusic. But it just shows that this path will not be at all simple, and that the complex one is still so much or rather indistinguishable, and obviously it has not solved any of its own doubts now that arises in this great community, which means from fifteen to five, and now Romania and Bulgaria, where it is also Croatia and Turkey, and which are actually still all these obstacles that need to be skipped, and then from this one environment that was very Europe-friendly, Europhilic that we are not really soon becoming Europhobic and that once again we have problems with ourselves, having problems with ourselves, and then we transfer problems that are problems with Europe. I don't mean it like that, but obviously, the activities and all these actions and advances must be something more aggressive and effective. Here, in that I say the HSLS Club is receiving this report for knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64713	Thank you. HNS Club respected deputy president Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64714	Mr. President, Mr. Negotiator, colleagues and colleagues! I'd just like to get something straight before I start arguing on behalf of the HNS Club to correct something that's repeated, so it could become and enter the ear as something that's a fact. It is not true that there is no room for Croatian membership in the European Union's financial perspective. There is. This financial perspective, it is also a complicated document, a big document, but there is no need to say in mind what we are afraid of, what we were afraid of but fortunately in the European Union's financial perspective there is a possibility for Croatian membership and space. So if we do our job it's not the problem with them in that there's no money for it. The problem is, are we able to do our job? So let's not mix you up, those two things? In the financial perspective of the European Union, there is a place for this. Report from the National Committee. I think it's important to go in front of the assumption of what is the function of the National Committee? Why is there a National Committee? The National Committee is far from being the only and the bogey is not even the main place for policymaking in Croatia. The capitals are both this Parliament and the executive power. The National Committee is primarily a place to participate and express Parliament's view in creating negotiating positions on disputed points. So what we're negotiating. We do not negotiate the harmonisation of legislation and the adoption of the European Union model as such. That's what we decided when we decided to run for membership. So our position is that that's what we want. And the position of our citizens when we asked them was over 70% that we wanted to. It is true that in Parliament, harmonisation of the law goes slowly. The truth is it has no economic strategy, but it has nothing to do with the National Committee. So when the work is estimated, it has to do with our situation in the Parliament, our remarks on the functioning of certain parts of the government in Croatia. Their work they do, but it has nothing to do with the functioning of the National Committee because none of it is done and is not the duty of the National Committee. The situation at which the position of the National Committee warns us is that at this point in Croatia we have at least 7 bodies of different, 7 instances at which Croatia's entry into the European Union policy is conducted. We have a negotiating team, we have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of European Integration. We have a prime minister who functions on his own as a lobbyist. We have the National Committee. We have a Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Croatian and European Parliament. We have the Parliamentary Committee on European Integration and we have the Foreign Political Committee of the Croatian Parliament. That is the problem so much that the coordination between those seven actors, and probably someone might remember and there are others. So there is no coordination of what we represent, of course, and of course we, too, have these contacts and talk. What we represent, we consult by eventually calling each other, but there's no place for coordination. The National Committee is not the place. He didn't get that assignment. We can decide so we can re-design the National Committee and give it the task, but the National Committee doesn't have the task. The National Committee has as its first and main task in those moments when Croatia and every other country that has entered or will enter the European Union negotiate, which are in the first row of deadlines and quotas. That's two things to negotiate. There are other things you don't negotiate. When it comes to deadlines and quotas in this respect, we haven't actually started a real job on the National Committee since we haven't come to that stage of negotiations yet. In other words, the National Committee is not yet in the fullest sense of the word to carry out that task that is central to the National Committee. And that's when it comes to deadlines and quotas. So do we have to start the legislation in six years or 12 years? Are we going to get these or those quotas in agricultural production, fishing or anywhere else? These are the real topics on which the National Committee must have influence and which is why we formed it. So on these topics, the National Committee gives its purpose not to its own but to Parliament's position and participates in defining the negotiating positions if you want which, for which Croatian negotiators will fight and where they will try to achieve good results. But we haven't gotten to those subjects yet. The national committee cannot be expertly controlled by the negotiating team. That's why we have a negotiating team. The National Committee has no instruments. There are no people who are expert in individual areas. So it can't control, what was said here, a negotiating team in this sense that is polymizing with some of the professional positions that the individual chapter teams have formulated. But it can and must represent consensually or majorityally, however this position in Parliament occurred, the position of Parliament. Parliament's political position on those topics that are being negotiated. And for that job, that job just stands before us who are in this House and on the National Committee, and we need to prepare for that job. And if there are institutions that should be through time and through Parliament's calls as we operate at this stage of negotiations, no matter what changes in Parliament as institutions. It is on the one hand the composition of the negotiating team, and on the other hand the technology of work. Of course the composition can't last, but the technology of the work of the National Committee. The main task of the National Committee, unlike Parliament, is to try to build a consensus within the Committee on certain topics that will then be given or handed over to the negotiating team as a result of them. The second point I'd like to say is a communication strategy. We are here in the Parliament as you remember we have brought in a communication strategy that I think is very conventional in the eyes of the HNS Club. So, all that you sit down that can trap you that should work there is written, but without any steps or new approaches to it and without anything that would motivate especially a new way of communicating Europe to citizens. One of the things that is neglected there, which I think we also ignore here in the Croatian Parliament, is that in the end, after all the prime ministers, all the European Commissions, all the Commissioners, all the executive authorities that will be these ordinary rather neglected parliaments of the 27 countries when we enter which we will decide whether we will enter or not. In other words, regardless of our wishes, if all of us in this country decide that we want to go to the European Union whether or not we will enter there will decide neither Barroso nor Rehn nor Ferheugen nor any of our executive authorities. The 27 parliaments of the member states that must ratify the agreement will decide. Of course, the European Parliament itself. Therefore, our activities as parliament should be in the first row and not only because we are Parliament, but because these places are ultimately the most important ones in terms of foreign communications to parliaments other than the European and the parliaments of the 27 countries that will be members when asked whether Croatia will also be a member. And also important second leg of the communication strategy is not about Croatia's membership in the European Union; this decision is different from practically all other decisions taken in the country and for which representative authority is sufficient. So, for which we are elected or some other people after us will be elected to the Croatian Parliament and will have a four-year mandate to decide on a series of laws, policies that will lead. Membership in the European Union is not such a decision, not only because it requires a decision in a referendum, but also because it is impossible to become a full member of the European Union. You can be a member of the formal, not actually participate. There's a lot of failures on that road. If the process of entry into the European Union is not the property of the largest circle of citizens. On the subject of how to make this process by owning the widest circle of citizens, we haven't really touched on these topics at all, and we haven't thought about how other ways besides providing information about what the negotiators are doing, giving us information on what the European Union has responded to which it is likely to rely on too little knowledge and institutions and experiences of other countries, but also other countries that are members. So, in which way from primary schools to further bring this institutional, cultural, politically very diverse idea closer to the citizens of this country, because if we do not carry with us and the citizens of this country this project will not succeed, and we may experience an irony of fate, which is that we have reached a consensus between political parties, and we have lost consensus with our own citizens. Perhaps it is one job in which the National Committee could be involved, but certainly Parliament is much wider. As far as the report itself concerns the assessment of the HNS Club is concerned, the report is very correct. We will accept it and vote for it even though as far as I'm concerned, I must say that I am a little surprised by the debate that followed after that report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64715	Thank you. 10.44 is time for an individual debate on this subject. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64716	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Chief Negotiator, ladies and gentlemen. So let me say a few sentences on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club regarding this report. Of course, if we look at the report and all this is not disputed that the Croatian Peasant Party Club supports this report on the work of the National Committee. However, here are the questions that have been raised so far, and in the report itself, I don't think we have anything special to say. I would say that the esteemed vice president described very closely the National Committee, its tasks and what he should do. But I think that we will all agree together, even though sometimes not fully agree that the role of our Parliament, and then in our Parliament of individual committees, is not at the level at which we all expect it. Unfortunately, however, they wanted to or did not want to admit that total parliamentaryism still did not revive in the full sense in Croatia and unfortunately some of the things that happened then and within it are not what we would like to do. We can fool ourselves, we can tell ourselves that's the way it is, but if we look the truth in the eye, then we'll get to it. The task of this committee in the decision is very clear that it oversees and assesses the course of negotiations, gives an opinion and guidelines to the Croatian Parliament on the prepared negotiating positions. However, if I hadn't read further because all of this moment is not really relevant because we're still at one I'd say preparatory stage, i.e. I think Mr. Drobnjak will agree to our laws. We are showing them to the European Union, and we are going to get some conditionality that is one of the most important things in which we may not have spoken yet. Therefore, we need to know that we have not yet entered into negotiations. We're just on observation, and we're just coordinating to see what we've done so far. In order to enter into negotiations at all, and unfortunately this is not yet mentioned here today, we may get in some areas, given the review and the coherence, a screening that will be applied to some conditions. And I think that might be the most important thing he's had to deal with so far and the National Committee. Something the negotiating team should have warned as much as possible about what was going to happen. Some conditionalities can be that way to say very clearly we don't open chapters, we don't open up until the moment you do in the preparatory phase, so we're not even starting to negotiate at all until you've settled some things in that part. I will personally say, what we can now evaluate here is very commendable to this negotiating team. I think Mr. Drobnjak and the entire team are doing their job properly and there's really nothing there, at least as much as I have the condition for the whole situation and as far as I can get the information, they're doing a part of the job correctly. I think the overall situation we've had back maybe a few months, which sometimes wants to create isn't good. We've all set out to concentrate on this part of the job that some people may like less or more, but European commitment, no matter how some of us can see us as Eurooptimists, some as skeptics are pure reality, we go that way. Well I'd always advocate that then that road will thorn, it'll be difficult, there'll be so many problems about which perhaps now, and I'm free to say at the beginning of that road it's hard and predictable. So I'll be free to say that all the collegiate, all the confessions that will be after that difficult road that went a long, long time ago than this National Committee was founded should be left for the very end. I believe that we will all rejoice together and that he will surely come. What's the problem, what we can't stress right now is that when we all start talking about this together, then we say, so that these reforms, these coordinations, all of what we're doing, we're not actually doing it because of the very entry into the European Union, we're doing it for ourselves, almost all of you here when you're saying it somewhere is mentioned. And I think this job is something we need to talk about today with a few words. So, realistically looking at the current reforms, all that needs to be done right now is part of the work that we have to deal with today, which we have to mention. Unfortunately, whether critical or not critical, experience it one way or another, but do not abuse it for any political purposes, but I would freely just warn for a moment when time is running out, part of the work has not been done. It is mentioned here that the harmonisation of legislation is slowed down. But I'd say more primarily maybe it doesn't matter so much it's not a priority maybe that legislation itself. Sometimes it can be very accelerated so that you might catch that time gap. What I think is much more important, a real reform of the total in our Croatian state. Is she going at that pace as we'd like here, is that the real reform that's going on? I'm talking about all segments. I don't think there should be any particular emphasis here. I will allow myself to stress in particular the segment of reforms that are to take place in agriculture, reforms in the entire sector. There's a lot of discussion about it. Unfortunately, though, things are going extremely slowly. We're just now thinking that these days there's a SAPHARD agency that's going to turn into one of the most important segments in the area of agriculture we have a commission that's accrediting. These things don't go at the rate they should go. That should have been done almost a year ago. We all know that here we are talking if you remember and want to remember my words when we talked about pre-accession funds, about the possibility that in some way we could consume money from these funds, I clearly warned that we would be able to do it, but only when we have institutions when we make adjustments, when we make those reforms that are ahead of us. And I think that that way, by assessing the real situation and not getting into any political or political speculation, we need to talk about this. I think it's going to be very difficult. You know, we can close our eyes to the fact that parliamentary elections are getting closer and closer, and this job is terribly important. Unfortunately, we in Croatia, I must conclude, we have not yet reached the level of overall democratic tolerance in which we can raise certain old people to a national level and say there is no political bickering, it is an important topic that must lead us towards being of general interest. And that's where certain things are always stolen. And whether or not they want to admit it then that leads us to slow down the process we should have. In order not to skip anyway, I have to mention some things that are objectively to us here I would say are on the side of these already mentioned sugar-related negotiations that are still uncommunicated in the right way. I'd say they haven't been defined yet, because, you know, the quota we're talking about is good at 180 thousand tons. However, that obligation of 80,000 tonnes of imports is not mentioned. So when I add it up with one, then those who know this problem a little bit better, it's not 180 anymore, it's just 100 grand. There'll be bigger problems. I think communication was bad and there were a lot of problems. I think it is necessary to mention ZERP, i.e. Protected eco-fishing belt. I think it is necessary that this issue be addressed by this Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, that perhaps in my opinion, the National Committee has given a certain initiative. Because if we talk about negotiations, then we need certain positions. Without ZERP, I'm afraid that our fishing positions are weakened, and I think that in that part we need much more to strengthen our positions, we see how this happens in our neighbouring countries, so that they're even trying to strengthen some positions for some future negotiations no matter what they are, but we also have the opportunity to do it here, and I believe that we can do it. I am once again warning, and I have said this several times before, many countries that, almost most of them, went in this direction, meaning joining the European Union, have produced a study of the "cost benefit study" i.e. a study that will assess how much we get and how much we give in many of the segments that we will negotiate in the future. I think such a study is needed in Croatia, I think with this study we'll get the part that I want to say a little bit more about, and that's our people, our citizens, who will finally give the last grade. They'll say yes, they can't, and before that we all have to breathe together I'd say and adapt in that direction. I think that's important, I think it would make it easier for all of us to come up with certain things in a better way. I'm not going to talk here right now, I think there will still be a lot of words about those pressures coming from the European Union about real estate traffic, about those things that are related and some suggestions about privatising agricultural land. I think all these things will still be debated a lot. There will be an opportunity for it to be on the National Committee, I believe that we will have all of us together, depending on us, to fight for the greater, stronger and better role of the National Committee itself, and that these warnings that have been well-intentioned, we will warn all those who are obliged to do part of the work that I would have told my colleague Mimica most explicitly that they should take this seriously, and that this work must be addressed not only for the sake of the European Union but because of what we are all talking about declared, because of ourselves. The Croatian Peasant Party will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64717	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64718	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. There's so much talk about it, and in the end this report has been submitted to us on only 10 pages. However, no matter what, this body must continue to exist, because I dare say it pours such credibility to this country. And this body must also continue to act the next day when there is a change of government or when a new assembly of parliaments is formed. I am aware that this body is more accurate than this Committee, there is no God-knowing political weight, but it is nevertheless an expression of the credibility of Croatian politics towards the European Union. Clearly from the European Union when it comes to Croatia, whatever Mr Matusic thinks, nothing will unfortunately be in 2009 although I wish I was very wrong. It's only 2008. Croatia can hope for NATO, and that means that only there in 2012, 2013 can it join the full membership of the European Union. For me personally, it's extremely depressing. So in the next European elections, Croatia will not be and I would like Mr. Drobnjak to reassure me of my pessimistic grades. This means that clearly Croatia's burning problems and future ones will be 26.7 billion euros in external debt, $9 billion in trade deficits, €100 billion in internal debt, €12 billion in unpaid bills, rising liquidity, €50 billion in blocked funds in a commercial court, €305,000 in jobless, health care, absurdization, and finally this exchange rate of €1 equals 7.2 kuna. So Croatian burning problems may not be when Croatia will enter the European Union, but when and how these unfavourable economic trends will prevail. It is also understandable that Croatia has no future without the European Union, we must be aware of this and we must in some way send such a message to the Croatian public especially without the European Union there is no future after the countries of transition from one Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and so on. become part of the European Union. So Croatia must be in the European Union, although it is clear that 99% of Croatian citizens will rightly notice that our essential problems are those mentioned in the external, internal debt, pension, health care, etc. But the European Union is also a question of our maturity, of our credibility, of our seriousness and finally of our perspective. Croatia cannot live in isolation, we are not one Switzerland with 40,000 euros per capital, we are Croatia which has a gross social product somewhere around $7,000. Who started economic growth in one Hungary, Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, etc.? Foreign capital. Mr. Kramaric literally asked himself what side of the experience was, and I'll say so she's relatively good. So let's look at the gross social product per capita when it comes to the parity of purchasing power. Croatia has the parity of purchasing power expressed with 8000 934 whether dollars, dollars probably. Poland 10 thousand 900. Hungary 13,000 and 398. The Czech Republic is 15 thousand 570. Slovakia 12,000 and 140. Slovenia 17 thousand 400. So they can buy, watch out Poles somewhere about 2,000 dollars a year more than Croats. The Hungarians are four thousand. Czechs $7000 can buy more goods at the end of the year than Croatian citizens, etc. etc. The letters we used to look at with high, 3,000, etc. So what needs to be changed is certainly this perception of the Croatian public. With this perception, we can't make a step. With this perception, we can only tap in place. Vice-President Vesna Pusic was absolutely right when she said a nice sentence, that we lost consensus with our own citizens. In July 99, 81.6% supported Croatian citizens joining the European Union. All 5.3 was against it. 2001. 68.9% of Croatian citizens support entry into the European Union, 7.1 were against it. 2003. 70.9% of Croatian citizens join the European Union, only 16% against. In 2005, that changes dramatically. 39.2% were for entry, 44.6% against, and in April 2006, it means now, 47.7% for entry into the European Union, 33.1% against. What does it mean for me to do? Close or open the country above all according to the relevant capital? For me, that's actually the point. How do you get that relevant capital? If not then who will come or who will stay? She'll be home. So, domestic capital, domestic tycoons that are real through conversion, privatisation, and what now? The country has no money, or choice between foreign capital and our transformed mechanics. And now there's a choice to make. The state can't just invest because it's over-indebted. Why am I saying that? In order to simply bare the matter to absurdity but to harden, either the capital will come to Croatia or our citizens will go after that capital. We don't have a choice. Clearly, monopolies don't have to sell, ina, HT, etc., but we simply allow citizens to be free to deal with their own. Clearly all this can be at the level of the announcements, but what has intrigued me very much, it is a statement, I particularly like that statement by the Spanish, the head of the OSCE mission, Mr Fuentes in the Republic of Croatia, clearly, which says that the Republic of Croatia has made a major step towards the European Union and states, clearly, the start of negotiations, mentions Gotovina, a better attitude towards minorities. Clearly, it stresses the need for a faster return of the Serb refugees as 300 thousand left Croatia. It is still out of Croatia nearly 200 thousand, but it also states, which is why I quote it, which is extremely commendable, quote: "that the media in Croatia is freer than the media in many European Union members". And indeed, he's not afraid of any journalist of any politician, but all politicians are very much journalists, which may be fine, and their owners are very large. In Croatia, a politician can no longer influence the media. The media have to go to politics, and that's good. The prosecution, the courts, they can't, but it's not good what kind of position he might have in this country, but about that second time. Then, another thing that got me a little distracted in this report, that's this bureaucratic dictionary. I mean, he's almost hard to read, I won't say incomprehensible, but general. He is hard to understand, but no matter what, this Committee has a specific political weight and as such Croatia is needed. And I don't think there's a chance I'm gonna be in it for a while, so I'm gonna get out of it. Political work, I'm aware, on this committee, nothing political will bring it to any party, but it won't take it away. The work in it is primarily a statement of responsibility to these processes that the Republic of Croatia is seeking, where access to the European Union, at least in these benches, is experiencing an overpolitical issue. Now, can the government disabling the Committee's work? Of course he can't. However, if the opposition is led by this Committee, then some others, the one for internal politics, are less important. But the truth, all right, and I'm aware of that, which the Committee does for itself will, of course, take power. Not the opposition, but failure will not be seen as a problem for the opposition, but for the authorities. And I said, Croatia will not, unfortunately, not even though I would like it very much, in the European Union 2009. Give and give God that these deadlines in 2012, 2013 simply shorten what again, can be numbered but also does not have to be as a failure of the Government because we are aware that, at these times, the European Union itself does not know what it will do with itself. More specifically, when he refuses his constitution or when he openly doubts the absorption power of the 25 countries, the question is who in this country at all to blame. Croatia is absolutely European Union needed. Not for the money, but for the money. Every loan should be paid back. Croatia is needed for the arrival of capital, for accepting the value of the European Union, because of the opening of our goods to the European market. And in this Croatia certainly can and must find its own interest and in this we can all profit from it. In this, Croatia can clearly and prosper, i.e. at times when the country's external debt has exceeded 26, nearly $27 billion has drawn close, Croatia cannot survive without the European Union. We absolutely support this material as we all do so far. We hope for the Committee's success, we hope for the success of the negotiator, the competent ministry. Although we are aware that the European Union does not need to be idealized, there is no need to marginalise it in any way. All the countries, I'll say it one more time, so-called. Eastern Europe, which has entered the European Union, has profited. Croatia would hardly be an exception in this, and on this purchasing power I tried to explain it. And these figures most eloquently state why we need the European Union. To make people live better. We need her for our own sake, because of the chances that every citizen of this country is given. That's how much this material needs to be accepted. Through this material, to send a message that Croatia's integration into the European Union is our superseded issue. If we succeed and people will think differently about the European Union, and we ourselves will be more credible when we present ourselves to the European Union. I am aware that the European Union is not an ideal association, but better at this stage in these areas, in fact, there is no. And that best showed us the development of the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, which, as I said, we were looking at not so long ago. I personally support the work of the Committee, although I no longer idealise anything, the more I am indisposed in some way by the fact that Croatia will not be in the European Union, by my court, before 2012 and God forbid I am wrong. A report like this, no matter how much he's principled, there's nothing to add, there's nothing to be taken away. He's principled, I said, but it's an opportunity to discuss him and to pollomise with both opportunities in the country and in the European Union. But once again I'm going to say, there's no perspective for us without the European Union and over such a thesis that we're just losing it, we just have to do one all-out, I don't know what to call it, step out. Finally, Mr. Mimica also said a nice sentence "if we don't know where we're going, every time we're good". I'm going to paraphrasise it this little bit. If we do not explain to the people what the European Union is, then we think or we will think that our path is best, that we are enough for ourselves. This would simply be a bad message because by entering the European Union, all countries have profited and I am convinced that this would happen to the Republic of Croatia the next day. I want so much to believe that these mood trends will be when we're in '99. had 81.6% for entry, almost consensus, and today 47.7% for entry simply this change and it should certainly be done, but sometimes also by gentlemen from Brussels, Strasbourg and other metropolis should have more understanding for opportunities in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64719	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one came from MP Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64720	Madam Vice President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain. The first allegation is incorrect that the freedom of the media in Croatia is greater than in the countries of the European Union. Obviously, you haven't read the latest data from international institutions where we fell into the freedom of the media in 83rd place along with the Ivory Coast and it is said that the influence of politics is large and the influence of various lobbyists. Also when you presented information on purchasing power, you forgot to say that for Poland and other countries, the gross domestic product is also included in the grey economy, and in Croatia it is not. If we had a gray economy, it would be the same if we had huge purchasing power, but unfortunately, the situation isn't like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64721	Thank you very much, colleague. We have an emergency breach of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Caine, please write an article.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64722	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I was just quoting Mr. Fuentes, head of the OSCE mission in Croatia. Somewhere in Croatia, they are freer than in many members of the European Union, even... When was that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] "Vjesnik", 1st, 2nd April, well maybe for April 1st, so... But I agree with this assessment that capital has a dominant impact on how it will simply be written, but that's the second pair of sleeves, we'll talk about it tomorrow when it's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64723	Thank you very much, colleague. You two obviously agreed, but when you tried to guess the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't hit the article. It would be good to read the Rules of Procedure. The next correction to the incorrect quote, MP Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64724	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here in this general rush of pessimism, I'm correcting only one false allegation. He says they're unfavourable economic trends. So as far as I know all the reports speak the opposite, and especially the growth of industrial production and what I regret is that my colleague Cain has regularly forgotten that he has been.../The speaker is not understood./... without tourism, without foreign investment and then normally that it is easy to build this concept of exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64725	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the HSU Club, colleague of the Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64726	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs. A report on the work of the National Committee gives us a chronological review of its activities as well as the activities of the negotiating teams. We have no more serious objections on the report, but we want to make some observations. Reading this report gives the impression that Croatia must accept everything blindly and without negotiations, often against its own interests. These are attitudes and obligations imposed by some of the members of the European Union, as well as by some individuals and which we cannot accept. It is clear to all of us that our political path is determined, that Europe and everything that it bears is our destiny, that we must prepare for co-existence and unity with the peoples in our environment, but we must know to what extent. It is this fact that we must be encouraged to draw some conclusions now that this report would not be an empty letter on paper. This means that binding conclusions are made for the government and this Parliament and the following. How long will it take to adapt time for areas, i.e. branches of activity, which laws and regulations still need to be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this Parliament will also accept within what time. It is now important to note what we will gain by entering the European Union, or how much this future will cost us. What will make us recognizable in Europe, which are Croatian values that we must establish regardless of entering Europe, not for Europe's sake, but for our own sake. That the communication strategy of the Republic of Croatia is implemented and that citizens are familiar with all the changes that are expected in time and time. We should be unique about the main strategic interests as we were unique to the establishment of the National Committee because this is a prerequisite for the successful development of Croatia on the way to the European Union. In previous points and their adoption, a joint initiative for the economic transformation of Croatian society would be launched because it is the basis for our survival and identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64727	Thank you very much, colleague. The next is on behalf of the PGS, SBH and MDS team member Nikola Ivanis. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64728	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let us engage in the debate on the National Committee Report in a way that, above all, on behalf of the Clubs of Regional PGS, SBS and the IMF, I say that even today, as we have supported and supported the fact that Croatia has formed a National Committee, we support the fact that there is a kind of alliance for Europe in Croatia, regardless of what some people are experiencing, which is therefore a political consensus which, of course, is not binding in terms of all positions in our European Union path. We as regional parties want to say that we want Croatia to join the European Union as soon as possible. We therefore want quick negotiations because we are convinced that cos benefit for the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens through the euro integration of Croatia is unquestioned. However, we want to add one little "but" here and make it clear that we think that neither the speed of negotiations nor I am quick to enter Europe should it be neither in the interest nor in Europe to be at all costs and to ignore, at all costs, any of the things that are in the state as a whole or as a citizen individually of interest. So we support those who claim that we must know and citizens must first of all know and see through the concrete results of the negotiations on certain topics that everything goes in that direction that "cos benefit" and that usefulness of joining the European Union will also be for Croatian fishermen and peasants, intellectuals, university professor. In doing so, we would support those who spoke about the internal part of that communication strategy. We think that negotiations may go better than what this strategy works and we think that the euro's relationship with optimism and the euro of skepticism in Croatia is such that everything that is necessary in the euro integration process of Croatia is done as easily and as best as possible to bring every citizen, especially young people who will ultimately be voters and voters at the time when Croatia enters the European Union. We support those who have said that we are particularly interested in agriculture and fisheries and what we will achieve in the negotiations, that we are particularly interested in the problems of forest areas, agricultural land, coast and island. Of course, ownership of real estate but in a way that we, on behalf of regional parties, clearly state we are not interested in phobic statements on the protection of certain special interests. We know what it means to enter Europe, we know what liberalisation means in these areas but we think that, as in the latter group, we would have to and should have certain benefits which would make all this total liberalisation that would follow and that would follow make the Croatian citizen as natural as possible and that would suit the fact that Croatia's citizen in a material sense in this period strengthens that he can be competitive in using his rights in the EU area at the moment he becomes a citizen of the European Union. We especially think that everything about public procurement is important, so I'm going to say something about it later. We still have centralized public procurement systems in Croatia. Therefore, something that certainly exists in the European Union is neither appropriate nor can function. However, in addition to this, we want to say beyond the issue of negotiation and the content of negotiation that what should be done in Croatia in this period is much more important and we think that this can slow us down on that euro integration path. The adjustments that need to be made are being kept too slow in Croatia. Of course, here colleagues have talked about many things that enter the area of adaptation, about economic adjustment, about what we do or do not do in the system of adapting our judiciary or reform. On behalf of regional matters, I would remind you of certain things related to the internal arrangement or to the internal structure of the Republic of Croatia. It wasn't long ago that we talked in this House about local and regional self-government. It was not long ago that we talked about decentralisation and at what pace this decentralisation was going on, that we talked about the position of municipalities, cities and counties, their financial position, their financial subordination and that through the financial distribution of the country's total tax revenues, local and regional self-government is something that is incompatible with this system in the European Union and that this will be an obstacle on our way, on these euro integration roads. I'll remind you, and I'll only remind the public of it. In this country, the budget of a consolidated state is called 107 billion. Outside, Zagreb still has 7 billion and 5 hundred municipalities and cities have another 7 billion. And that's the system that many in this assembly have said is unsustainable. We need to reform the system of local and regional self-government, we need to plan the dynamics of regionalisation of Croatia. Croatia cannot have 20 regions. Countys aren't regions. I will mention for the first time, our county is by authority and by fiscal capacity equivalent to the Italian province. But European countries have what Austria is, what in Italy are regions that are high-level regional self-government, self-government autonomy and whatever they want to say with their original incomes. It is a system in which European countries operate in the internal structure, and we believe it is urgent to see where we have strayed from the preparations and plan for reforming local and regional self-government. The indications we have about the law being prepared, the Regional Development Act, is that it does not answer these questions. But we have it in the Parliament's work plan in 2006, so I don't want to reconsider. However, we think that these issues are also urgent and that others will seriously put themselves on the path to the euro integration that, with the problem of public procurement, with the problem of corruption, we will also have problems on the subject of the inadequate internal structure of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to what we hold in mind that internal adjustments and political consensus should be changed more decisively, we should also say that, for example, the equality of citizens in terms of the availability of the health system of citizens in Croatia is ranked towards the World Health Organization at 110th place. While the quality, expertise and equipment of Croatian health care is ranked at 40. Therefore, we need to reform the health care sector that is involved in these necessary adjustments, in a way that we do this system in terms of the equality of citizens and the availability of the system to citizens, so that we come about 40th place in which we are, in terms of the expertise and the equipment of health and not to hold a disgraceful 110th place. But we have to go into this and we can't put it off like I don't know what time it's delayed in terms of the real debate in this House that's in charge. There are similar things in other health - related areas as well. We in health care have a system of centralized procurement. Not long ago, there was a lot of talk. So this means that subsidiarity in this country is applied in a way that in cities where clinical hospital centres exist, in which there are medical schools, for 20, 30 or 40 years there is not enough professional staff to manage a system of medical equipment procurement, it has to be done through a system of centralised procurement at the route of the Croatian Fund and the Ministry of Health. These are anti-European ways of working. We will not be able to negotiate those parts of the negotiations when it comes to them and when it is their turn. Therefore, on behalf of regional parties that have been since the beginning of Eurooptimists for a simple reason because Europe is a country but also Europe of citizens, but it never forgets to say that Europe is a region. We want Croatia's rapid integration into the European Union, but we absolutely hold that it is necessary and important not only to put a weight on part of the negotiating process, we must return seriously to the process of internal reforms and all that we must do within the state so that our country can simply learn into, be compatible and fit into the matrix of European countries and be like Austria, like Italy, like Germany. Without it, I'm afraid I'd rather share here lessons from excessive optimism or skepticism, but I'm afraid at one point the voices of Europe that we're hearing from these days might be strengthened. Someone's putting a lot of importance on them. Someone's relativating them in that region. I would not like to, however, but the fact is that from the circles of European officials around the European Commission, that from the circles of European politicians, from various blocks politically represented in the European Parliament we hear serious voices that Croatia is putting into order those countries for which the process is to be slowed down and I think, personally, I think that is because we are not carrying out this internal story and that we are slowly implementing Croatia's Europe within ourselves. Therefore, by wanting all the best in terms of those who perform our negotiating teams, by supporting the work of the National Committee, we wanted to say with this contribution to the debate that we are holding, that it is necessary to put a weight on what within the country in many areas we must do alone without anyone's dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64729	Thank you very much, colleague. There are no more registered clubs for discussion, so we will be contacted by the main negotiator for negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, Mr Vladimir Drobnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64730	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an honor to have the opportunity to address you with a few words in which I will try to paint the current moment of the negotiations. But at first, I would really like to thank everyone who gave a good assessment of the work of the negotiating team. Your praises for us are only an additional obligation to continue as we have begun and continue to be even better. Where are the negotiations at the moment? So I think we need to divide the entire volume of work into two basic groups. One group is "screening" or an analytical examination of the Union's acquis, and that's where we came halfway. We have done 16 double screenings, so explanatory and bilateral, that is to say, in Bruxella the first and second "screening" and two more chapters, we have done the explanatory "screening" and we expect the "screening" process to be completed by the middle of October this year as it was originally drawn. In the current course of "screening" we have submitted about 10,000 documents only in the "screening" process. All these documents are made in Croatian and have, of course, translation into English, then we can say that close to 20,000 pages were created. And I am taking this opportunity to commend the good work, commitment and efforts of my fellow negotiators, the heads of the working groups and all the members of the working groups. Compared to "screening", we have already delivered two negotiating positions, or two negotiating positions for the chapters of science and research and for the chapter of education and culture, which has practically opened these two chapters, and we expect the formal opening of the chapter by the end of June and by the end of the Austrian presidency. And in the meantime, we expect the first criteria. They're those "bench marks" we talked about. We decided to use the Croatian word criterion instead of "bench marsk". And this is a new mechanism in the negotiations, especially when it comes to the criteria for opening certain chapters. The criteria on the one hand are a confirmation of individual access. Because for every country, the scales are customized. The criteria we receive in certain chapters are significantly different from those obtained by Turkey. But these criteria represent additional obligations, or they represent, they precisely define what everything needs to be done in a chapter so that this chapter can be opened. The system of criteria directly determines the speed of the whole process and it is defined as such, so that it is actually not ready to enter the European Union. The system of criteria was created to ensure that the candidate country is fully prepared before it enters the European Union. And thanks to that system, I think it can be determined that the quality of the negotiations determines the speed, not the other way around. When it comes to "cost benefit" analyses or analyses of the costs of the whole process, I think the comments made are very useful to us and encouraging and I can inform you that we have adopted a methodological novelty in the way we make our negotiating positions. For all negotiating positions, it is now necessary to fill out one specially designed table of how much costs and benefits we will receive and how much this will cost us in each chapter for which the negotiating positions are made. We have a special section, whether or not, contributions in the sense that we can count on certain European Union and Member States' funds but also how much Croatia costs. So I can announce that for the next negotiating positions that are coming, which are coming to the National Committee, we will try to deliver. And now I'd like to say a few words about negotiating strategies. Namely, they will be contained in our negotiating positions, and their content will, of course, be reported on time. Work on negotiating positions for large, heavy chapters has originally begun. Namely, the first drafts of course are made in working groups and we are still far from the final texts, to say I give you an example we expect the first criteria from the public procurement chapter. Only when we meet those criteria will we receive a call for the delivery of negotiating positions to the European Union and that is the moment when we will actually define the negotiating positions to a full extent and bring them of course to the attention of the National Committee and this is the strategy, that strategic document for each chapter which will clearly outline our national objectives and interests and strategies in those chapters. Some of these criteria for meeting which precedes the call for the delivery of negotiating positions are currently related to the development of strategic documents and action plans. So, part of the criterion that the European Commission and the Member States will set before us will play a role in encouraging the development of strategic and other planning documents. Whether Croatia will participate in the next European Parliament elections or will have, for example, observation status, which would mean that we have closed all chapters, signed accession agreements, but that the course of ratification, i.e. the ratification process between Member States is not yet completed. I cannot answer that question right now because I simply don't have enough solid parameters to do so and I don't think, on my part, as chief negotiator, that it would be either educational or professionally justified to handle specific dates of our entry into the European Union right now. What I can argue is that we have a high level of support in the main cities of the Member States in all the major cities visited by members of the negotiating team, Head of State delegation or I do indeed have a high level of support. Of course, after Croatia has fulfilled everything necessary in the accession process, it can also be counted with membership and can argue that in the European Union it is still difficult for us to account as 28 Member States of the European Union. The bottom line is that I say a really big and very demanding job. I think we've done well so far what the negotiation process at this stage has set before us but it's just the beginning. I dare say the negotiations and the whole process are going in the right direction. Most of the work is certainly ahead of us and the negotiating team approaches it with determination and optimism. We do not underestimate the complexity and complexity of the process, but we believe that together we can successfully bring it to an end and finally thank the National Committee for its very good cooperation and genuine and strong support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64731	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Milanka Opačić's first registered representative. He's not in the hall. He's losing his word. The second is the representative of Slaven Letica. He's also not in the hall. He's losing his word. And the third is a hit by counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64732	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the esteemed chief negotiators Mr. Drobnjak, colleagues and colleagues. Negotiations with the European Union would indeed be a game or battle between David and Goliath if we did not seriously listen to what the SDP Club said and what I mean is the essence of Mr Mimica's presentation, which is that negotiations cannot be conducted separately from the real reforms. Otherwise, these negotiations are pointless and have no content, i.e. Croatia cannot benefit from greater or less success and the skills of the overall negotiating team. It can potentially profit slightly from the government itself, but not from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That is why when we talk about Croatia's negotiations with the European Union, we must return to our main and fundamental task, our reforms. Many reform procedures have been halted in many areas and have been slowed in many areas, and some reforms have not yet happened. Well, perhaps Mr. Bebic argued, saying on behalf of the club, we have announced reforms. It's not about the announced reforms. It is a matter of implementing reforms, and we are, in many ways, late in these reform procedures. It is true that we all advocate reforms, but the truth is that these are the unpopular moves of every government, the past, these present and future ones. But it is something that is waiting for us and that we must confront in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and in this area of negotiations and accession to the European Union. How to affirm reforms and how to make them acceptable to citizens, including popular citizens? Certainly giving up some of the old habits is not an easy job, so as many people have objections to regular behavior, because it kicks them out of one rut soon these same people, these same citizens accept them as something that is common good, as something they already see in that process as their own improvement and as their own improvement in their own life. But is that what this is about? We are witnessing some of the procedures that are being conducted in Croatia called reforms, but they are not reforms. They mean a deterioration in the position of Croatian man and citizen. Let us only remember the announced health reform. Less right to worsen the position, and why and for whose benefit and for which and in the name of what. Let’s say something called health reform gave no final explanation except for the worsenings, not improvements. Something that has also been mentioned that may be a key reform, it is a reform of the state administration. We saw in the national anti-corruption programme how it gave up the fundamental features of the reform procedure right in the administration. And it was precisely the creators of the national programme that made the programme, that made a fundamental observation to that final proposal that was later here in the Parliament and adopted, that it gave up. Why is the government giving up reform procedures in the administration that were just newly employed? And it's in the state administration. We know, if we see and monitor development in all transition countries, including the European Union's remarks that nepotism, corruption, political corruption is present in this segment in transition countries. And this was warned by the main designer of the national anti-corruption programme, but this was not included in the final proposal and later in the adopted strategy. Therefore, he consciously does not want to go into some of the procedures that are changing, which would force him to change his way of ruling. From volunteering to good government, according to a government that is calculating, which does not depend on this or that personnel combination, but on a good system that works in the everyday staff combination. Let's just mention further judicial reform. There's a lot of talk about her, too. We don't have some certain even tax-listed things that we need to do. But it is simply a simple requirement for the judiciary to function effectively, quickly, within a reasonable time. Of course, quality is understood in all of this. Reduced funds, starting with infrastructure, and later on to education, especially in the individual bodies of the judicial system, such as The BOOK they're shrinking with is not a guarantee that we'll go on that declared one, that we'll go on that declared trail. What Mr. Mimica also cited, it may even be a minor problem, but also very worrying. The easiest thing to do is to pass one law. We will also be monitored and evaluated not only for how many laws we have passed that are needed in this custom and alignment, but also for whether they are applicable. And application and implementation is our cancer wound. We know that many laws do not apply and most of all those who are in service and certain norms in certain laws, in the service of the weaker ones. This means that the legal system doesn't work right now, that our institutions are weak. And that's something we have to do ourselves. It is worrying that in 2003 we passed three times as many laws here as we did in 2004, even less, and this quarter does not guarantee or guarantee that something will happen for the better. But normative is even the least of the problems, the least problem is writing the law and adopting it here. And that's the easiest job we've ever done. There will be no problem in harmonising certain laws of ours with European Union standards. Their most important requirement is, for example, in this area that I have mentioned to the judiciary, the reforms of land books. They're very interested in our land books. But there is something we must do in these very reform procedures that is of interest to our citizens. But that Europe does not interfere, but it is not our imperative. But we must do so on behalf of solidarity, on behalf of the community, on behalf of this common job of bringing the European Union closer. That every man feels it's in his favor. And there's nothing to do about it. However, a whole series of procedures in our legislation in the last two years have occurred at the expense of those weak. Let's see what happened to the protection of workers and his rights. Why was the default default rate lifted for the worker? Doesn't this company, doesn't our state think it's paying off a worker's social hazard behavior? Cloning is dangerous for her. But not paying off a working man's top isn't dangerous. But these are our assignments. Therefore, as convincing as we are and if there is such protection, then this process of approaching the European Union will be acceptable to the citizens. Why does this process reduce confidence in the European Union? Well, it doesn't go down on itself. So people demand and expect to feel these improvements in the process, not worse. But then the European Union will not blame us for that. These are our tasks and our obligations to our own citizens. Please also allow what we often compensate for with this lack of implementation of reforms, so we often transfer responsibility to the European Union, and then it will continue through the Atlantic. It's not one sense and rational I would say politics, either externally or internally. Because deception does not create one serious policy, nor does real success of the government. So there's a lot we have to do for ourselves, and then that process will be acceptable to our citizens and support will not be left behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64733	Thank you very much, colleague. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64734	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Article 210 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure and paragraph 1 and 2 which states that the speaker should first and foremost speak about the subject on the agenda. And on the agenda is the report on the work of the National Committee, not the work of the Government or any ministry. Therefore, your party chief presented here a report on the work of the National Committee and this is today's topic, namely the topic of this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64735	Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Also representative Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64736	Thank you. A colleague said the reforms have been halted and slowed and the situation of workers and citizens has deteriorated, and no national anti-corruption programme is being implemented. That's incorrect. No reform has been stopped. No reform, there is no reform that has been halted by this Croatian government. On the contrary, this Croatian government has started some reforms that you have not dared to start, but I will talk about it later in my advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64737	Thank you very much. Col. Valter Porupat, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64738	Thank you very much, Vice President. counterpart Anticevic spoke among other things in her presentation on state administration reform of judicial reform in the efficiency of courts. However, dear colleague Anticevic, I would ask you to explain to me a little bit what it is that brings to your mind the abolition of certain courts' seats, and will we then have a better judiciary and, in that sense, go towards a higher and closer approach to the European Union?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64739	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64740	Thank you exactly for this kind of observation that gives me this opportunity to look back and one I'd say the trick. The announcement and announcement of the owner of a major reform procedure on the abolition of existing courts and other judicial bodies is one of the most common tricks and does not mean anything. This just means that instead of Velika Gorica you will have the title of the Municipal Court in Zagreb Exhibition Velika Gorica or similar. And that's what they're suggesting in Europe, too. In making these "twins" programs how to adapt your own judiciary. Well, we now have the Twins program that introduced this government with Finland, please. No legal tradition, no legal, no legislation, no general legislation, no legal system has anything to do with Finland. Why do we not look at Austria, Germany and therefore there is a senseless policy, so instead of choosing to be a "twins" country programme that is similar, which has a similar legal tradition, that is, a common legal tradition and how they have further developed the legal system, to look at these countries, we go from one programme to another, and often one program cancels the possible spending of money in another programme just to like a country or a country. That's exactly the lack of vision and strategy that I would say in terms of wind and substance, Mr. Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64741	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64742	Thank you, Mr. President. Here let me start talking about the topic finally which is on the agenda, and this is the report on the work of the National Committee for 2005. So here is the report on the work of the National Committee, and right at the beginning I want to say that I will, of course, vote in favour of this report on the work of the National Committee, and I will also say that the National Committee has done its part of the work, the intended part of the work for 2005, as it does this year in the expected way. So everything that has been discussed on the National Committee has certainly been helpful to the negotiating team which I welcome on this occasion and the main negotiator of Mr Drobnjak, whom I believe has indeed done a really good job as he said the negotiations are going well, but I would say, I would dare say excellent work because such recognitions come from the European Commission and from those who participate in these negotiations, so we can freely say that the negotiations are going in the best possible way and that our negotiating team is highly competent and, of course, it is achieved both by consensus and the National Committee and that cooperation is very much needed in further work, because the real work is yet to follow. A real job for the negotiating team, but also for the National Committee whose report is in front of us today. The report itself should be said to be realistic and to maintain in fact everything that happened at the National Committee meetings, but I will express my dissatisfaction with the actions of individual members of the National Committee who abused their position by interpreting not the views of the National Committee but their personal or possibly party views, and under the firm of the National Committee. Why am I saying that? I'm saying I'd like to warn you of a situation that was unacceptable, and in particular the change in the date of screening for the area of justice. We all remember that there has been a huge storm over this fact, but neither has the chairman of the National Committee nor some members of the National Committee of the SDP have been an important argument of the members of the European Commission who themselves said that this delay is on their request and that this delay is the result of purely technical preparations for this area of justice. So they repeated it on several occasions, and I must say that after the media repeatedly repeated and cited members of the National Committee of the SDP, it had to do the same thing and was encouraged by these articles, the European Commission's representative on the joint committee held in Dubrovnik, the Joint Committee of the Croatian Parliament and the European Parliament, and all those who attended that session of the Joint Committee were able to hear again very clearly why the screening for the area of justice had taken place. So solely because of the technical preparation of that part, and it will in no case delay any process and, as Mr Drobnjak has already said here, until about mid-October, expect the end of this first phase and the follow-up to negotiations and the taking of a position of course in which the National Committee will play a certainly important role and I dare say that everything that Madam Vice President is, Mrs Pusic said that everything is actually in place on these courses of negotiations and everything that awaits us in the recent period. I also agree that I would have said the key question of communication between all those involved in this process. This is very important and it would be important to unite if nothing else is all information in one place, that the Croatian Parliament, therefore Parliament and all parliamentary bodies know exactly what is going on, or what is going on and what is going to happen in the near future so that they do not really intertwine in various discussions on various committees that function in parallel. I also find it extremely important to encourage information, and I think that the National Committee should play an important role and take clear views on this issue, because I really don't think that our citizens are sufficiently informed about what they are expected in the European Union and I don't see this as a blame for neither the National Committee nor this Parliament nor even the media, because there is not one joint action and I think that the National Committee should really work on this, because there is a political consensus on all the issues, so I am sure that, on the subject of the information of Croatian citizens, what awaits them in the European Union could be one of the most important topics and more important work of this same National Committee. Therefore, it is necessary to find exactly the mechanisms and measures to be taken to make our citizens as informed as possible, which is what is expected in particular in the European Union. We cannot expect the negotiating team to be involved in this business because it really needs to focus primarily on the professional issues that are encountered in the negotiations, and in this sense I think that the National Committee would be very helpful in this process of bringing us closer to the European Union. And certainly, what was said and singled out as a negative trend is, I must disprove, my colleague Cain was talking about, about the polls that were, but these polls now show one upward trend, which means that after those 39% of our citizens who were now committed to the European Union, or to the approximation of the European Union, for membership in full. That he followed the jump to 47, and there was at one point after the date of the negotiations was over 50 percent. Therefore, it is about the trend of the rise and greater trust of our citizens towards the approximation of the European Union and standards in the European Union and finally towards Croatia's membership in the European Union. The very speed of entry, already said here, and it is not as important as it is important, of course, that Croatia is prepared in all areas, that it is quality standards, that it is ready to meet all those requirements that will be put before it when it becomes a full member of the European Union. And I cannot agree with the statements that came today in front of the SDP Club representative, Mr Mimica, that some of the trends in stopping or slowing the process are in place. It's just not true, it's not real. We will certainly, certainly, as far as the Croatian Parliament is concerned, pass all the laws that we have foreseen to be passed in this year, just as the Croatian Parliament will in the next and in 2008 adopt all those laws that are before it. Of course there are fewer laws left, quality issues before all these laws. You could have passed 100 laws that changed two articles that were irrelevant. It really doesn't mean anything. The question is really what laws we make, what they apply to, and what problems they solve. Let's wait if it takes a month, two or three days, but let's pass a quality law, rather than break down like you did, which is correct and factual, when signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. So it was a classic crash. It is not true that already today a liberalised market such as that on several occasions you tried to convince the Croatian public. It's just not true, it's not true. It will be liberalised under the same agreement you signed in 2009. She'll be completely liberalized. I stress once again whether Croatia will be a member of the European Union at that time. It's facts, you can shake your hand, Mr. Racan, as long as you want, but those are facts. Therefore, you put it in an unfavourable position, in that part of the agreement you put Croatian citizens in an unfavourable position. Because if Croatia is not a full member of the European Union in 2009, then all European citizens will be able to buy Croatian real estate without any restrictions. At the same time, Croatia will not be a member of the European Union, if it is not in 2009, its citizens will not be able to do the same in some European Union countries. Therefore, it is clear that Croatian citizens are placed in an unfavourable position thanks to the agreement, that part of the agreement. I don't want to say that the whole deal is bad, I'm talking about that part we've already warned about. And finally, I am optimistic about Croatia's negotiations and Croatia's entry into the European Union, and I think that optimism is given to me by all those I speak with from the European Parliament and the European Commission and the Council of Europe who I meet very often. And I am quite sure, I believe that Croatia will also have elections for the European Parliament in 2009. Therefore, Croatia will also become a full member of the European Union in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64743	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64744	It is not the correct assumption that there are fewer laws left to pass than we have brought to date, that a smaller job is only ahead of us. It's just that first of all, we've never had an overview of how much law should be passed in general, but if the experience of the current candidate countries is to be seen, over 400 laws should be passed. We're halfway there today. And secondly, there was no crackdown on the SDP or the former government or myself personally in the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as the colleague put it. The only falling I noticed was the crackdown of the HDZ in the escape from the Parliament in the ratification of that Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64745	Okay. Replications. Dear representative, Vice President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64746	Do you want to go to Sections or can I, Mr. President? Comrade Matušić, one of the most collegiate suggestions. As you rebelled and in my opinion, somewhat justified to politicize this topic that we have other matters to deal with. I think the collapse in relation to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was too slow. If it wasn't for that shit, we wouldn't be negotiating today. The fact is, which I don't want to go on too much anymore because what's past is going on is to point out more, but the fact is that you, as a party, made a mistake and you went out when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was ratified. Meanwhile, you have changed your political position regarding the European Union as a party. Thank God, I think it's good for both you and Croatia. But let's not do what, if we've done somewhere, you, anyone, any mistake, try to make an advantage of it later. That wasn't an advantage. Fortunately, you didn't have a majority, the agreement was ratified. Fortunately, today you have a policy that at least concerns membership in the Union has reached consensus and that is why we can move forward. And the other thing I wanted to say, we have to keep in mind that harmonisation is quick, of course, and quality. That harmonisation of legislation is particularly important is why, and we will probably have on the agenda, one of those same laws several times. It's important because the Acquis are variable. The regulation of the European Union itself is changing as we negotiate. Therefore, we will have to adapt to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64747	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64748	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Pusic, I must correct you first. The HDZ has not changed its policy towards the European Union for one reason. Well, you can laugh, but you have to listen first of all to what's fact and what's true. In the first programme document of the Croatian Democratic Community, which was then signed by the late first president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. So, in the first programme document of the Croatian Democratic Community, the strategic goal of Croatia's entry into the then European community is today the European Union. So, you're telling us, you're giving us lessons about Europe or maybe reformed communists who are telling us today as well as you are that we went out when it was on the agenda to sign the Stabilisation Agreement. We did. Because we felt that certain points, that certain articles are unfavourable for Croatian citizens, are being repeated today with full rights and truth regardless of what Mimica says is not true. My colleague Mimica, it is true no matter how much you were infatuating yourself to the Croatian public to show your lies. And another thing. If someone was running from the Croatian Parliament, then there was a SDP that escaped on June 25, 1991 when independence was to be declared.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64749	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64750	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Matušić said that our citizens are not sufficiently informed about the European Union and that the National Committee should contribute to the information of our citizens about the European Union. I agree, Mr Matušić, with your opinion, however, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, of course, all of us, but others who must find solutions in their strategy to better inform citizens about life in the European Union and what is waiting for us in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64751	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64752	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not disputed that the government is very important and certainly the greatest burden on it, but it is not the only one that should inform Croatian citizens in the process and therefore I felt that the role of the National Committee is very important and important and that in that part the National Committee can indeed help all and Croatian Parliament and negotiators and the Croatian Government and all of us. In the end, I think Mrs Pusic has said well that it would not be good to have a political consensus around Europe and to lose the citizens' consensus on the same issue. So in that sense, I think we should all do more, especially the National Committee. We also give him some of the tasks that we expect from the National Committee, so on the issue of citizens' information to make one improvement and to make it as simple as possible for citizens to be as informed as possible about what is waiting for them in the European Union, I think that we, too, who are present here, who are dealing with this problem, do not know all the details from all areas. Therefore, let us open wide debates, there is no reason to prevent anyone from reaching the truth. Finally, it's in the interest of both negotiators and the government and all of us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64753	The next replica, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64754	So I think now both this tone and these replicas of fellow Matusic actually show and confirm what it really is to us, how we actually have a problem when we think about the same things differently. In the preamble to the resolution adopted by this House, it said it is necessary to preserve and promote national identity and protect national interests. And it seems to me that this exposure has already proven to me that we actually have a problem that we don't know what the national interest is or at least we see it very differently. The way in which you, if you have expressed your position and HDZ shows also how you refer to what was done over the past period, shows this important difference and it is not about any speed, this is really about the thorough preparation of what is meant to be achieved in advance. The fact is that reforms in Croatia have been halted, but they are stopped not because HDZ does not have the will to implement these reforms, but because there is no concept, no strategy which would be the basis for such reforms, and if there are no reform projects, then there is no adjustment of the laws that we should have made, which are necessary for the European Union's accession process.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64755	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64756	My fellow Vidovic, I am sorry that you do not follow what is happening in Croatia, so you think that the reforms were stopped the moment you came down from power. That's one thing. As for national interests. I'm really sorry if you have a problem that you can't define what national interests are for you. I know what national interests are and what national interests mean to me, but if you don't know it then it's really your problem, I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64757	Next replica, the esteemed representative, Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64758	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Matušić, in Croatia it is generally known that the change in the direction of Croatian politics towards Europe took place in 2000. If you had real glasses, not party glasses, then you'd have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement to scale both in plus and in minus. So here's an example. The agreement allowed Croatia to export sugar without quotas to the European Union, without restrictions. This government, this HDZ government, at the first call of the European Union, imported restrictions and accepted a 180 thousand-ton quota. So you have to look at the agreement in both plus and minus. It is part of European policy, not just party glasses. There's nothing more I can tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64759	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64760	Comrade Leko, when you mention changing course then you should really look first at your party who has had many changes, and as far as concrete application is concerned, I said that the Stabilisation Agreement is not entirely bad, so you didn't listen to me very well. I said, first of all, I referred to an article that spoke about the transport of real estate, and as far as the sugar quota is concerned, and that's where we reached a good agreement that he admitted, and all those who deal with the business admitted it and made it clear and loud. Therefore, you do not have to misinform the Croatian public on this matter, and as far as the glasses are concerned, I do not wear any glasses or party glasses, and I see you have glasses.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64761	Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64762	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! So if you were to look at this report in some kind of business sense, I think this debate would take a very short time because this is a report on the work of our National Committee, which is what is most importantly established, which is formed, which has started working and actually related to the phase in which we are. We are in the screening phase or an analysis of the compliance of our legislation with European Union legislation. So, only when this first phase is over, when that first phase is over is we will see about where we are and we will see in fact what work we are up to in the further process of joining the European Union. I'd say that in a simplistic way, the real game is just ahead of us. What has been so far I think that we can positively assess and finally I am in the final part of my report assessing positive work and the negotiating team, assessing positive everything that has been done so far. To spread this debate and to say that the situation is bad, that the Government has no concept, that the reforms have been stopped that I think is a bad message sent from this Parliament because in this Parliament we have actually taken one common position of all parties that is precisely the goal of this country's fundamental goal of entering the European Union. This cannot necessarily be a question of whether to enter a union with countries whose legislation, whose legal institutions, whose democratic institutions are at a high level, have an economy at a high level. I don't think there can really be any doubt whether to enter such a community or stay here in one place beyond such events and beyond such events. I have to say at those meetings that we, as Parliamentarians, have with high school students from our districts, that's a question that really these young people are quite interested in and that they're asking us. And there's a certain skepticism, there's a certain misunderstanding, and I think it's good here in a series of debates, that it's necessary to communicate as much as possible with citizens, so not only does it come to the attention of one information, but it actually does make one communication and hear information from them, hear their opinions, and thus actually that public change informs about what's going on, but that it means built-in and their views. I must say, it is the legitimate right of colleagues who believe that reforms have been stopped, that the situation is not good, and that is certainly a legitimate opinion and the right to represent and such an attitude. I do not share that view, and I must say that I am optimistic about this further part of the negotiations that will go in the first order if we look at the statements of the leader of that European Union, if we look at the statements of the representatives of the European Union who come here to meet our leaders. In fact, all the results that our country achieves are fairly positive and it gives hope, in fact, that this second part of the screening job will be less and easier than it is. We see that from all the contacts we've had and of course I think we can see for sure from some of the results that we've achieved in these two and a half years. We can think and say that the situation is either like this or like this, but here was a recent meeting of the European Union's economy ministers and finance ministers where for the first time we had the opportunity to participate and our finance minister where actually macroeconomic stability and our country's macroeconomic indicators were assessed very positively. We can think this or that. I do not dispute that there is one problem that is certainly external debt in that domain. He's really legitimate, he really exists. The external debt at this point seems to me to be 84-85% of the social gross product, regardless of what is not significant in generating this debt and is not the largest actually state generator but are business banks. We are witnessing that the Croatian National Bank is trying to stop such trends with its measures, but at the same time we are witnessing that last year this country has achieved an economic growth of 4.3 or 4%, while at the same time reducing the deficits of the state budget where we are approaching that master criterion of 3.2%. It was about the judiciary that we didn't do anything. I just can't agree with that fact. I think in two and a half years in the judiciary as a very important actually chapter that's about to open, I think in these two and a half years, a lot of things have been done in the judiciary. We can also talk one way or the other, but the numbers are numbers, statistics in statistics. The number of pending cases has been reduced and reduced. Certain laws have changed that actually provide assumptions that these positive trends continue. Because watch out, a million and a half unsolved items, that's not a problem that can be solved overnight, that's not something we can actually say we'll pass laws and tomorrow's better. This is one treatment process that requires both good diagnosis and good therapy. And I think we're on our way here. Finally, we were in a joint delegation of this House and representatives of the opposition, and we met with representatives of the European Parliament's Justice Committee where we saw, in fact, that they were rather directed to what is happening in the Croatian state where we actually saw their positive views on all this. Therefore, Mr. President, I think that this debate should actually, in this debate, absolutely support the report on the work of the National Committee in 2005, but of course with the conclusion that the real game and real work is ahead of the negotiating team, but before our National Committee is coming. So, Mr. President, in fact, you have the authority of this Parliament to oversee the work, to report this House on all the problems, to suggest the positions that this Parliament needs to take. You have not only that authority but you have the responsibility to do so. And so I think that even these assumptions that I've made so far, all of what's in these two-and-a-half years and before positive and well done, I think it gives us the groundwork and that we can really move on with optimism into this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64763	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64764	My colleague said he liked to talk about numbers and that numbers should always be mentioned. But then I always come back. If we talk about the figures 18.5 billion foreign debt cannot be called Argentina and 26.2 billion something Croatia can repay. So when we talk about numbers then I agree that we're really talking about numbers without creating political euphoria. We know well who created it and how it was created. And also, when we talk about what external debt is, it's always been an external debt. Now that someone is in power, it should always be said that it is not the government's debt, created by the Croatian state. When we speak again in numbers then economic growth of 5.6 in 2002. Since 5.3, 2003, it's not like I'd say disaster, abandoned, ruined economy and so on, and those were exactly the things that the current furniture in power was saying. And I'd say achieving economic growth in 3 and a half that didn't show enough government ambition to fight for economic growth because we think it's acceptable, that it's normal, that it's a sequence I don't know what and now we're saying 4.3 is good. No, it's not. Apparently not. Why? Because the economic development strategy of the Republic of Croatia says that each government must fight for growth from 6% to 7%. So we can't be satisfied because they're numbers. We're talking numbers. So there's a difference in those numbers. We also cannot avoid a political fight if the finance minister says the deficit is 6 and a half percent, and it is evident that it is a deficit in 2003. 4.9%. And if we were arguing about what's or isn't included as payment or method I'd say what's being shown or not showing, both this and that method. Because then we open the topic. What about unpaid 6 billion health care, what about unpaid railway bills and, of course, it's always a question of how we want to talk? And when we talk about the numbers, I believe that we will slowly run away from these irresponsible subjects.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64765	Reply to the replica, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64766	Well, my colleague Linic, I have not at all disputed that external debt exists and that he is not a serious problem. He really is. I just noted that the growth generator of this external debt is no longer a state but in fact that these are business banks and that the Croatian National Bank is taking a number of measures actually to bring it down into some normal frameworks. As far as economic growth is concerned, I've put economic growth in the light of the facts. I agree earlier years was economic growth 5.6% and 5.3%. Now it's 4.3 or 4.4. However, if we look at this growth in light of the fact that the deficit is reduced from 6.3% to 4.2, we are still approaching the Mastreška criterion then it also has one significant and important value. So on that side, you know, I mean, I didn't mention any more positive trends. We see now in April this year in 2006 the number of employees being which is also a serious problem for us. 300 thousand unemployed do not deny it is not a problem, however we cannot remain blind compared to the fact that in April of this year, 17 thousand are less unemployed than they were in April 2005. It's still certain shifts. These are still certain positive steps. We don't have to agree to that here. But actually what encourages them are really representatives of the international institutions of the European Union who might see it better than we do and they're actually much more affirmative about it than they seem to be about themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64767	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64768	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the chief negotiator. I think that here today we should talk openly about what and how we should be doing here, not fighting each other, and that's why I think that today's session was supposed to be attended if I'm not the Prime Minister, then at least the Minister, because this is a very important issue. It's no business question. The first thing I have to say about this National Committee is what it looks like to me right now. I won't say it's a ficus. I'll say it's a cactus and it's a small cactus with daggers, but if you look out, you'll never come across those daggers. And that is one of the whole analytical concepts that have been seen so far regarding this topic of EU accession negotiations, and that is what we must avoid and such practice immediately interrupt. And that's why I can only take this report as an agent because it has neither decided nor had anything to decide on, and let's agree on how and how to do it because if we work like this we have an analytical situation on one side. The European Union and its members have a clear strategy, either if it concerns the European Union as a whole or as its members who have clear interests and have a strategy on how to achieve these interests? We have both the case of Slovenia and Italy and Austria and all other members of the European Union who have some unresolved relations with Croatia. And they make it very simple. They do so with bigger or, or more, they can't say bigger, with any or less resistance from the current Croatian authorities. If so, and what position is Croatian now negotiating? It shall immediately accept anything requested by either the members or the European Union or as a whole, or provide any or any resistance. And if that is the case, if we understand that part of our role and tasks, we must be aware that the laws we are making, which we are harmonising with our legislation with the acquiss of the European Union, if we are working in this way that we have worked so far, and that means taking over, cheating means what they are giving us, then the negotiating teams will have nothing to negotiate objectively. Because through this legislative activity, we will take over everything they ask of us and there is nothing to negotiate. So how do we protect the future of Croatian citizens? How do we protect our national interests if we do so? Then part of the referendum itself because the Croatian citizens will eventually decide whether they want Croatia to enter or not into the European Union? But they won't have anything to decide on. Because in this way, as the European Union is now doing, it will fully achieve all its objectives and interests as a whole. And around the real estate, and around the water, and about the wealth of the whole. Therefore, citizens will only make formal, declarative decisions and have nothing to decide on because the European Union as a whole or members of the European Union has achieved their interests and objectives. Therefore, their strategy is clear. It's a system, usually handled by carrots and beatings. So by the principle of carrots and beatings, if we come to the point where we should decide on some of our demands, they said, "The problem is General Gotovina." After that, they will say "the problem is real estate", and they will say "the problem is corruption". But why? In order to achieve their own or individual or shared or shared interests again. Now what do we have to do? It's an analytically clear situation. We talk and analyze as human beings because what we do doesn't lead to anything anymore. We must first set our goals for all areas in Croatia. What do we want for this time when it's being negotiated and everything else? What do we want in what area? In the area of justice. It is not for the sake of the European Union, it is for the sake of Croatian citizens. What do we want to do in the area of agriculture during this period? What we want in the area of tourism, in the area of the economy, in every area, and we know ourselves if we do not do what we have to do then we will come again that we will not have any more opportunities or repairs of the situation in agriculture or any other area, because we will enter a situation in which many may want to enter so that we no longer have the opportunity to decide any real estate, any other parts and wealth, the interests of Croatian citizens. So that's the part where we need to talk analytically today and see that this National Committee is neither a ficus nor a cactus. If there was an exact jurisdiction and we as MPs weren't talking about what this government was doing, this one was doing it. Let us learn that mistakes were for each other. Let's draw a line, because smart learns to make mistakes. But unfortunately, we continue to make the same mistakes, but these mistakes are not the problem of one government or another, but they go to the burden and future of Croatian citizens. For this reason, we must change this part and discuss these issues completely, precisely determine our course of action, our strategy in terms of what we need to do for ourselves and how and how we act in these parts. Unfortunately, we must openly say here that many who are in the negotiating teams that are in the cultural speeches do not think of the main negotiators who are in the groups, they are primarily interested in catching a place in the future European bureaucracy, rather than leading to the interests of Croatian citizens, Croatian states as part of these and such negotiations. We know, analytically we judge, put it all on paper. I suggest that the National Committee deal with these things and let's do exactly what we do so that we don't happen to the variant that we're going to do as we've done so far. So everything they tell us we accept and what will eventually be decided by Croatian citizens. He'll have nothing to talk about. They can decide that Croatia will not enter the European Union, but the European Union... They did what they had to do, and then they don't even find it interesting anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's talk seriously and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64769	Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64770	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just because Kovacevic finally said what Croatian citizens will decide in the referendum, I will go to the replica instead of correcting the quote, in order to give him the opportunity to answer a specific question for me. In fact, you are all calling for citizens in the referendum to decide on the finals that is very good and that is the way it must be. But then we must be responsible for these citizens and not bring them into doubt, doubt and ignorance of things because Croatia does not negotiate with the European Union as no other member in taking legal norms and legal gains because it is not the subject of negotiations. It will not be with Croatia, but all countries, so Croatia is also negotiating possible exceptions, deadlines and quotas. Therefore, the acquis of the European Union is not the subject of negotiations and will not be decided in a referendum, but the citizens will decide whether Croatia is going to or not to join the European Union at the end of the negotiations on quotas, exemptions and deadlines. We need to talk to people about what they're going to decide on and on what it is. And secondly, from your debate, I have concluded that your party HSP has so far failed to participate in the National Committee or that you are withdrawing from the National Committee because, apparently, after your discussion, it turns out that the National Committee has so far and, unfortunately, some others have not worked in accordance with the establishment decision and that no agreement has been reached within it, consensus. So please clear answer get out or have you ever worked on the National Committee Croatian Party of Rights or are you announcing getting out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64771	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64772	I'm glad to hear from Mr. Lesar who understood nothing at all, but that's his problem is not my problem. I was saying that if this is how it is that we do not have a strategy, that we do not have the direction of action and everything else then they will realize the European Union as a whole and members of all of what they are interested in, all of their interests and then what Croatian citizens will decide when they will be able to buy real estate, when they will be able to have everything at their disposal as if we are in the European Union, and we do nothing. Therefore, they have nothing to decide on by Croatian citizens. I can make a declarative decision, but the European Union and its members and their citizens have done and achieved what they need. Therefore, smart enough to tell once. I said I wanted that National Committee to have stronger powers. He has weak powers and according to the very decision we have spoken here. He must have clear powers, not a ficus, or a small cactus. And therefore, that's how we should behave. So, you can take it as if I'm the euro skeptic, but I speak as a euro realist and then we'll make our full contribution to working on the right topics, not meetings. It's a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64773	The next replica is a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64774	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I am surprised by the optimism Pero Kovacevic is speaking today. Because if he had said that half a year ago, it would have looked completely different. Pero evolved as probably evolved by his party on the matter of attitude towards the European Union. Because Pero speaks as a half-euro skeptic today, and until yesterday he was a complete euro skeptic. In fact, Croatian citizens will decide whether they want to join the European Union or not in the European Union and it will only be yes or not, as in democracy in the referendum, otherwise there is not too much room and there is not too much room for us to receive the European Union in Croatia. The European Union is receiving Croatia in the European Union. Well, I hope we don't make the rules to the European Union. Rules in the European Union, the acquis has long been resolved. What we can get out of this, we'll get out, we'll probably get out, and I don't doubt our negotiators will pull anything out. But all those skeptics that we're talking about today, all those real estate problems, so what? Well, we've been listening here to the President of the European Union. You're very worried I see it, and I'm asking you who can forbid me from selling my house to anyone I want? Whether Europe has the Constitution or not, who under the constitutional law of the Republic of Croatia can forbid it from me? And what are we talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64775	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64776	Well, first of all, if Mr. Marasovic were more often in the assembly than elsewhere, then he might know what I'm saying and what I'm saying. So, I always talk like a euro of realist, and you can figure it out any way you want. And secondly, I want you to have this house, the question is whether it's yours, which you would sell, to sell for two years at a far higher price. And now you're not going to give it up for a bagatella. And what's most important, which you obviously didn't want to listen to, if we do what we do now, then this is what you're saying is that Croatian citizens have nothing to decide about when they have their interest. Come on, be smart. Then what will he decide? The European Union has achieved everything and... Then what do Croatian citizens decide? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then they have nothing to decide on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64777	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64778	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here we are, despite all these discussions, just a report from the National Committee for 2005. I, too, would like to point out that only the report is high-quality and fully depicts the work of the National Committee during the observed time period. It is absolutely acceptable methodologically and in fact represents both a factual and legal basis for looking at one side of the Committee's work, and on the other hand the basic issues, namely the quality of the negotiation process. Furthermore, it should be pointed out this occasion that the establishment of a committee is the result of the consent of all parliamentary parties on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union, and I would like to stress in particular the strategic national objective for which the joint action of the executive and legislative authorities is necessary. So when this report is discussed, it should always be kept in mind two documents. Therefore, in the first row, the Declaration on Fundamental Principles on Negotiations for Full Membership of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and, of course, the Declaration of both the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the joint action in the process of negotiations for membership in the European Union. However, it should also be pointed out that, in this initial phase of negotiations, it is essentially the so-called procedure. screening. In fact, the Committee does not have the opportunity to give an opinion on certain negotiating issues at this time. The real assessment and more extensive work of the committee are expected to begin in the next period of time, in which concrete negotiations will begin, which will overlap with the follow-up of screening in other chapters. And what needs to be particularly highlighted in this report is in the first order that basic organisational assumptions for the action of the board have been created. And what is particularly important is that an extremely good co-operation has been established with both the state delegation and the negotiating group for the conduct of negotiations. Another thing has been achieved are assumptions for joint action and enforcement and legislative authorities within the framework of the start-up programmes in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. But most importantly, what should be pointed out when we look at this report relating to a precise, concrete period of time is actually the day of the assessment that negotiations at this initial stage of an analytical review of the compliance of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union are making good progress. And it is absolutely necessary to express satisfaction with the work, expressed by the expertise and ability of Croatian negotiators, in which there is, of course, the Head of State's delegation, so the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and, of course, an indispensable role, the role of the main negotiator with his young professional, competent team. In this very sense, and just what is before us today is actually the topic of the agenda. I think we'll all agree that this report as it's made absolutely should be supported, on the one hand. And on the other hand, listening to the debates, and some in the name of the clubs, I personally, and also as a member of the board, actually see them as an expression of frustration from the former minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64779	Replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64780	I wish your grades to Tomljanovic were correct. I would like it for both of us and for the Croatian public. It's something catastrophic. It's a 10-page text that descriptively describes what it was and how it was negotiated. There is no assessment of Croatia's position currently in the accession process in relation to Southeast Europe, according to the Western Balkans, according to the vision of where and how we will go. So there's really nothing in that paper. And I'm interested in you telling me what your quality is. What do you see in that quality?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64781	Replica response, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64782	Well, I'm going to answer the line to a respected professor, not to the question. I hope we had two of the same documents in front of us. It is therefore a report on the work of a committee in the time period observed by 2005. I don't know what you expected from that report, strategy, assessment, judgment, I don't know, processing these or those strategic topics, and I don't know how many pages. I recognize the quality in this matter precisely in what it clearly paints, I say it as a member of the board, it also paints the work, everything that happened on the committee itself and emphasizes actually those basic issues of the agenda point, everything that the board was dealing with, what it was discussing. And in that sense, both accuracy and correctness and quality of adjudicating such a report to this High House. So, here is precisely the specific report of the working body, whose obligation is to give a correct report every 6 months, a quality report to the Croatian Parliament. I really think that's the way it is. And because you disagree with the methodology and you have a different approach, seeing what it should contain, that is your opinion, of course, of you as an individual to what you are entitled to. But it seems to me that you were wrong to assess this document in a negative sense. Because it's a report and nothing else. Report on the work of a committee that he submits to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64783	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64784	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. In the analysis and discussion of the report on the work of the National Committee for 2005, I think it is necessary to start from the main strategic national objective, which is the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union, on which all parliamentary parties agree. Accordingly, the National Committee was established, as all participants on the political scene would be involved in the negotiation process. So we can say that the National Committee shows a national consensus on the commitment to Europe. In this sense, the National Committee actually popularises Croatia's entry into the European Union. Information from the National Committee is very important for obtaining support from the Croatian public. It should therefore be pointed out that the Rules of Procedure of the National Committee have established that decisions of the National Committee are taken by consensus of the members present who have the right to decide. I must point out that all conclusions and decisions so far have been made by consensus. I believe that the clear and harmonised conclusions of the National Committee and thus presented by means of public communication by holding a press conference and published on the website of the National Committee will certainly contribute to the adoption and greater support of the entry into the European Union. The work of the Committee in 2005 covering two phases and the first phase, so from the establishment of the National Committee on 19 January 2005 until the adoption of a resolution of the Croatian Parliament on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union and the second phase of the work of the National Committee in 2005 relating to the period following the adoption of the Resolution on Strategic Provisions, i.e. from the beginning of the process of the analytical review and the assessment of the compliance of the national legislation of the candidate country with the legal property of the European Union until the 5th session of the National Committee held on 16 December 2005, was characterized by co-operation with the negotiating group in such a way that the main negotiators and members of the negotiating group were orally informed by the National Committee on the course of screening process and at the same time provided clarifications for the contents of the written indications of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, I believe that the National Committee has a full picture of the course of these negotiations. What is also necessary is to point out that all members of the National Committee are very satisfied with the work and expertise shown, the ability of Croatian negotiators who have participated in the ongoing negotiations, i.e. the screening process. They are also pleased with the established co-operation with the negotiating group headed by the main negotiator and head of the state delegation. These are also the conclusions of the National Committee, these conclusions have been reached unanimously and can be read in this accompanying report on the work of the National Committee. I suggest that such a report be accepted, that such a report be accepted by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64785	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64786	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is the first report of the National Committee, and I am extremely glad that all clubs were manifested. A large number of clubs or the largest number of clubs have been positively demonstrated and the Croatian People's Party club will accept this report even though we have expressed clearly one reserve and a desire for future coordination between all those bodies and committees that participate in the process of approaching the European Union, in fact, much more high-quality is taking place in the future. We heard in this debate what grades, I wouldn't go into whether the National Committee is a ficus or a cactus, it's imagined as a cactus and it's a great cactus right, Mr. Kovacevic. I would not even go into whether the committee's powers are too small, enough or too large, but I would remind you of colleagues and colleagues who decide on the composition of the board, his responsibilities and who is a member. We're deciding our colleagues and our colleagues. Therefore, all those who are opposed to the report, I believe that they should make clear and concrete proposals to say how to avoid what they do not agree tomorrow in writing, conclusions, we should go beyond jurisdiction if necessary. I will personally do so in this debate. What I would particularly underline here and agree with is one of the introductory sentences of the President of the National Committee when he said that negotiations are only one of the aspects in the process of approaching the European Union. I couldn't agree more. We here need to discuss other aspects, first of all we need to discuss how much we as a Parliament have contributed to harmonising our legislation, how much we have managed to implement this legislation in everyday life to the benefit of our citizens and a clear communication strategy should also be the subject of our conversation. I'd like first of all to congratulate Mr. Drobnjak, although I can see he's had to go out now, to him and his team. I think they did a good job in this first period, but he knows best whether the composition of all teams is optimal, whether people were optimally ready, whether they did the job in Brussels as expected and whether the big teams had to travel to Brussels for negotiations. What I would, however, put in the focus of this debate and what happened just before Mr. Mimica. He expressed his position on our work, on the overall impact or effectiveness of the government, the Parliament in harmonisation with EU legislation and was very strongly attacked. My colleagues and colleagues, I think that's why there's an opposition that can speak openly and express its position. The goal is to improve the work of all of us, from me to every minister in the government through criticism. All of us can and probably need to do better and more. I'll set a good example. Col. Mimica said we were able to comply with the European legislation of 62 laws throughout the term of office. In four or five years before that, we managed to reconcile quite a number of laws, but in total in these five years I think we've only done half or just a little more than half a job. That's my grade. So in five years, we've done 50% of our jobs. Now I will pull the parallel with what happened on the island of Malta when they were approaching the European Union. They applied to become a member of the European Union in 1998 and in five years they did not 50% of our jobs, they did 100% of the job and already in 2004 they became a full member of the European Union. But there is a significant difference between Malta Parliament and the Croatian Parliament. What difference does that make? The difference is that we're professional politicians, and they're not. They only have a professional president of their parliament and no one else. That's right. [[Intruder: It's okay.]] They were meeting, colleagues and colleagues, so they leave at 9:00 for work and finish work at 6:00. They met for four and a half years every day three hours before work and three to four hours after work, and they didn't get a single lip for it, but they did a very, very good job. To the pleasure of their citizens. So that's the important difference between them and us. As far as what's more important is the implementation of the laws we harmonised. That's what my colleague Anticevic said, and nobody else mentioned it, and I think the National Committee would have to do in the future, or we need to extend our powers and say what word. Because it's only important, having laws on paper and not implementing them, not being for the benefit of our citizens, there's no co-worker and colleagues then no purpose. The European Union itself has so-called "imtact assisted" procedure where in each Member State it monitors how these laws apply. Why don't we start already now, why wait for tomorrow some of the bodies of the European Union to start calling us. Now let's practice democracy, practice and evaluate realistically how many of these at least 50% of the laws we've harmonised are essentially passed on to our daily lives. And finally, a communication strategy. In 10 days, a seminar will be held in Split for the needs of journalists. The journalists themselves asked him to improve that communication. Mr. Jandrokovic called the seminar. Well done, support on my part. But I'd like to mention that coordination again. I personally think that the National Committee should participate in the preparation and organisation of this seminar, that they should be present, that they should clearly do one large part of that work because they are primarily our representatives in this big business. Here, I won't be long, but I thought these few sentences should be spoken, because surely colleagues and colleagues can all contribute much more and much more quality work in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64787	Thank you. Three replicas. First, respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64788	Well, it is a general place that counterpart Doric reiterated that we have a brilliant negotiating team. It's a valuable negotiating team. A colleague, Drobnjak, told us that they produced 25,000 pages of different documents, but not everything is so ideal. I will remind you of the great damage that a member of the negotiating team, Mr. Iron Flego, has done in public lies about how the Croatian government, or the negotiating team, falsified the data on the 4% allocation for education. I've done surveillance of all the data. According to the UNDP, education spending is 4 and a half percent. According to OECD 4.6, according to the World Bank 5% and according to European Commission data 4.7%. So, very deliberately, falsely and politically, he deceived both the Croatian and European public and violated the credibility of both the Croatian Government and the negotiating team. And in the following cases, there should be much more caution, skepticism and supervision to the negotiators. I personally have doubts about a few people out there that they will do us great harm, and therefore, don't give priority superlatives without considering that this is about a large number of people and different interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64789	Replica reply, Honored Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64790	I don't know if my colleague Letica's replicated Mr. Drobnjak or me. I have said and underlined that Mr. Drobnjak knows best whether teams are well complex, whether people are optimally prepared, whether they represented the interests of Croatia and whether... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, I don't. I congratulated the top of the negotiating team, Mr. Drobnjak and his associates. And if the widest of teams, 35 of them optimally assembled I can agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64791	Another replica, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64792	So I would rephrase to an esteemed colleague at the part where he got up defending some of the personal attitudes of his colleagues who appeared and of course discussed this subject. Of course I agree with you that everyone has a right to their stand. But Mr. Mimica didn't speak for himself, he spoke for the club. That's one, and that's not true. And the other thing, in the second part of his presentation, he did not speak at all about the item on the agenda but used his position to speak from the speaker and as a member of the board that roughly unargumented reform processes by commenting which is now actually taking place to discuss... /The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./ So in that sense, I'm replicating you, and also when you said 99% of your exposure wasn't about this report at all, but from the report itself, you pull out a segment and then you start talking and discussing. Of course you have the right to do so, but in fact it does not essentially refer to the debate itself, and of course the opportunity to look at the processes that are happening, which are in terms of the conduct of the negotiations themselves and in relation to the absolute positive assessment. And not only in relation to a concrete negotiating team, but in the general public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64793	Replica reply, Honored Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64794	My colleague, I had four aspects in my presentation. In the first place, I looked back at the negotiating team. In the second, I was talking about the National Committee, his work and the president's grades. My friend, everything's been timed. You heard it yourself, I didn't want to get out of the mud some sentences that were spoken. That there was no quorum at meetings, etc. So I argued that professional politicians should come to meetings, work on meetings, prepare, etc. I didn't have to get into it, that's all. Third and fourthly, I have proposed additional powers and obligations to the National Committee concerning the communication strategy and the implementation of the legislation. What's out of the context of this agenda point? I mean nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64795	And the next replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64796	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague, you have said that it is of no use to pass laws that do not apply, but here, let me briefly note that there is great and incomprehensible damage to the laws that do not apply. For what? Because they are destroying citizens' trust in the institutions of government, they are destroying citizens' trust in the whole sense of the law because of the laws, and especially for the execution. So those who pass laws, who propose laws, should first submit to the laws, and only then address them. But with us, the culture of legality is weakness, not virtue. Power and power are considered just as powerful and you are in power as much as you are able to play power, and as long as we do not realize that good rule implies that the government is the first to submit to the law, not that it is above the law and that it is sufficient to gain confidence in the elections and then do what it wants, then in that sense, I am also adhering to your opinion that you initially established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64797	Replica reply, Honored Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64798	I did not want to go into the details here, but the European Union, after having received 10 new members, noticed that in many countries these laws do not apply in practice and then began this... , monitoring the application of the law with the aim of doing what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the law will not apply in practice, they should be abolished. That's the goal, nothing else. I'm not saying I wanted to go into details.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64799	But that's a good thing you brought up the Malta case. The only President of Parliament is a professional and the other amateurs. And the last representative, the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64800	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the negotiator, ladies and gentlemen. Let us, however much is already said about this report that there is not much to be added or taken away and about the National Committee to attribute to it or to take away and how he did. ... Technically, a report this House will accept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is an opportunity now to talk about the essence, actually to be a thing because you think about a European perspective, and living in Croatia really needs to know how to explain it to a common, small man, peasant, worker, intellectual and anyone who lives with us. Namely, we need a European perspective, we need to improve Croatia's reality, and here we need general unity. However, I would warn that as we politically discuss this, I would easily agree. It's the imperative of one, the other, I don't know any government, but when it's practical, it's really on the other side. I follow a clear agriculture sector, and I must say that if it is true that accession to the European Union is true, and all our documents speak and when it comes to it, it affects farmers more than the changes that have been caused by the collapse of the Socialist Communist system and the independence of the Republic of Croatia. Our people are right to think about it. Look, it's not an undertaking, and it's a side effect that happens, but it's a reform procedure that we absolutely need to know at national level, understand and agree on. That's why I'm systematically warning you. Our adjustment, all our assumptions for joining the European Union, and by the way, our peasants don't think they'll go anywhere but think that conditions in the Republic of Croatia are created the same as in the European Union so that they can produce and fight that Goliath or rather be part of that European continent, but keep all their features on the same basis. It means that they are nationally conscious, that they preserve their identity and faith and that on this Croatian soil they produce under the same conditions for the self-sufficiency of all peoples, for economic breakthrough and for the overall improvement of the Republic of Croatia. We're not looking for anything anymore. However, I warn you that even the seas have challenged us that some reforms have not been stopped, some have not even begun, we have not been able to stop them. Tell me what reform this government has now started in the agricultural sector, and where are we now in this sector? What is our determination and what is the money to give it? If you think that the regular financing of this government's agricultural budget is a reform procedure, dear friends, then we're all together and we're wrong in one wrong way. We must understand that reforms require funding without national consensus. The insurance of these funds depends on this Parliament, this government must, whether it is left or right or not, provide which, and it must adapt us, prepare them for entry. We are talking about these adjustments, I am now in the third term, since the first term of office, that we must adapt, but it is going so slowly that a snail will catch up with us somewhere, and in agriculture in particular. So let me talk to you about this report on the National Committee, without any big claim of complaint. I draw attention to what's really the point of things, actually what life means. The decomposition in the countryside is now under pressure to adapt we speak, but the paper adaptations to the European Union in a way that we have begun to forget the small ones, we simply think they will disappear, and the large ones do not raise production and we are opening imports, enormously large imports. Try your colleagues with the tables to manage, we've increased multiple in 10 years imports, and we haven't raised production. We have to wonder why such a situation is and why the reform procedure is not really done and why we don't agree on it. We need funds, we need to break through ourselves all those implications that are waiting for us, is Europe yes or no, we once said yes, but there is no alternative with which to secure resources and go through reform measures forward. I repeat, if it's the stress these have already been, and we need to know how much the war has cost us, we've found the strength to renew it and invest the funds, and now in peacetime we're not providing the means for progress, so someone's not leading the politics to the end or honestly or he hasn't determined that it might be. If the procedure happens to be so difficult for us to approach, it'll be a social rebellion. I speak of social rebellion and dissatisfaction in the sense that the large population remains unsettled because they will not have the opportunity to achieve income, simply be marginalized and the state budget and in a way that they can't produce then we were blind because we didn't know how to do it. We must make every agricultural household as little as it is, it now turns out and uneconomically take care of it that today it produces as much for its own needs, to contribute to what was said just before to a gross social product which is not shown in the part where the Hungarians must, where the Czechs must, the Poles now, but although not everything is great and wonderful and not in Poland, in the very accession of the European Union, have very big problems, a large number of farmers who have to take care of it in a hundred ways, not in one way. But as a state, they decided to overcome it and thus absorb this social unrest or social uncertainty better said such peasant and nursing households. Then our government must also find an alternative to how agriculture can be economically cost-effective, economically sustainable agricultural production and that it absorbs this surplus in a way that it certainly has its existence for old age. And while it's not just agriculture in that sector and you forgive me, I'm only talking about agriculture. And while this European vision or better to say for now our illusion is being discussed we must analyse Croatian reality and it would be good to give the comparative advantages of entering the paper as soon as possible. Because I could read from this book right now. We are at the bottom of the vineyard production opposite Europe. Europe has no subsidy for this and it has surpluses. I'm asking us now while we have so many options. I'll tell you that we spent 1% last year raising vineyards. So let's ask ourselves why we didn't spend 99%. Something's wrong with the strategy, something's wrong with the approach. We have a good programme of cattle production a thousand and 200 farms per 40, 50, 13 we've made, now maybe 20 if it's this year. So it's not a good air conditioning. We are not honest with the local population, we do not create conditions and we do not honestly determine that this adjustment would go at a faster pace. Here, I needed to say this about agriculture to understand actually the true state of the country as it is without the illusions of those who are waiting for us there rather than to see the real state that is in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64801	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64802	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect not to allocate financial resources for agricultural progress. This is an incorrect and inconclusive statement by counterpart Kolar as significant funds are being allocated for agricultural progress. I'll just mention incentives. Just encourage you to see how much it's given. The second thing is whether these are sufficient resources for all needs and for all requirements that exist in this area. But it's not a good thing to tell a lie not to single out the resources for agricultural development. So don't comment on it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64803	Replicated representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64804	Mr. President, look. I'm replicating exactly in this segment where my colleague said because Mr. Kolar said they weren't singled out enough. I would say even more sharply here and Mr. Matušić may be understood in some other segments and in agriculture I don't know if he is a good student of this whole matter because reality is very clear there. Unfortunately, in these parts, when we talk about operational programmes in which funds have been allocated in some way and envisaged as well as the operational programme for the raising of multi-annual losses, then only 1% is spent. When we look at livestock, in livestock, the percentage is similar. Then we can say okay. The funds are somewhere that are not sufficient in total, but then we see that these funds are also not used in the right direction. When we put it in a set in the whole situation, when we've all been determined that we have to go quickly, quickly in reform, adapt, give the opportunity to our farmers then we see that these are not the right measures and that unfortunately this way our agriculture will certainly get hurt and I would be the happiest, most joyous that our peasants are so happy that the fields are after entering but I am truly afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64805	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Joseph Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64806	Well, here's a little bit of a replica to answer in a more casual tone. While Mr Pankretic was too, we said not to provide enough resources even though under public pressure we made a significant step. I must say that the purpose of my debate and now the answer to Mr Pankretic's replica is to really warn about the real situation in agriculture. All these conversations, my contacts here and the other day with the European Parliamentarians came across a good reception in the sense that for the first time, but for the first time, they honestly heard that there are major problems in Croatian agriculture. Otherwise, the official government keeps saying that problems are being solved. I claim that the problems are piled up, that they're sooner and later come out, and the meaning of all this is only with more resources targeted directly then it can be. And Mr. Matusic, the president will forgive me for the answer, I was saying that they are not enough resources. I know they're being insured, so I'm not the first time, but I'm sure they're not enough and I've been saying about it all along that it should be targeted this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64807	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64808	Thank you, Mr. President. You have a transcript, so you can listen to what you said. I've quoted you correctly. You said no funds were allocated to advances in the area of agriculture. So I know exactly what I heard and what you said. But I accept that maybe you meant what you just said. When it comes to the terms you're talking about, that's exactly what this is about. Through this harmonisation we want to create not only conditions but also standards which are much more important, which is much more important to create both preconditions and standards for functioning in a quality way of agriculture. What does that mean? This means that it won't be possible to produce wine in a winery where grapes are not grown in its area at all. This means that it will not be able to be imported from Macedonia and sold on the Croatian market as a wine with a geographically controlled origin from Croatia. That means you'll have to write down everything you have. As far as the vineyards are concerned, I remember that unfortunately in your term of office, these incentives have been reduced by almost 50%. That's right. By the hectare, look at your decisions you cut from 43,000 kunas you reduced them. So, according to a hectare of incentives you reduced and we returned them, this government returned them when it arrived in 2000, at the end of 2003. You have all the data, so we can talk about them specifically. Therefore, we agree to create conditions, but also standards, to allow indeed European standards, which means control of both herbicides and all that is used and how it is grown. Create real objects for quality agriculture, for quality. Because we cannot compete with the quantity of the European market. So if there's anything we can do, it's quality. And so we need to focus, and that also enables us to do this harmonisation and everything that is meant to be implemented through these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64809	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Joseph Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64810	Thank you very much, sir, Mr. Matesic, but this is an opportunity to respond to the standards as well. Blind copying of legal provisions, sublegal acts and regulations and applying them to Croatian occasions is stupidity. That's bullshit. If we don't know as the indigenous people that we have so many hundred years of our country to make legal frameworks and to show Europe that we are a cultural people, that we know how to produce culturally. That we know how to rule. Then it's a shame. I can't accept it if I have an Austrian or I don't know what kind of boom I'm gonna slaughter a pig in my own backyard. I want to slaughter her today, and I'm gonna fight for it, and I'm gonna know what? Because I will, because I'm going to make the sanitary and technical conditions and force this government to give us some place, I don't know, under veterinary supervision to give me, that's it, so please nice. ... That's why I'm telling you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So don't, and look at one illogicality. Europe has farms. Now imagine that, Europe has farms that don't have to be fenced, and you're going to set the standard that I have to fence the farm so that I don't happen to have someone else's cat come or suck. And there walk all the way they will, and yet they green, or who fight for the good of the animals, that they may walk freely because we restrict their freedom of walking. So is that Europe? Well, that's not for me, Europe. I want to bring some of the European chess and... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64811	It is as it says on the Slavonic boards, the inscription: “I’ll kill by house.” Final review of the President of the National Committee, the esteemed representative of Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64812	Mr. President, Mr. Drobnjak, it is good that in this cheerful tone, here is the debate that he initially feared, given the few MPs and MPs who attended this debate, what will be the debate? If she wasn't good enough, she was no doubt alive. It's a tradition we maintain in the Parliament. What seems important to me to point out here, I primarily thank everyone in the debate who had critical facilities, remarks, and certainly those who supported the report that was on the agenda. This report is also the result of a common agreement and agreement between us who represent different political options in the National Committee. It's no problem to have different views. The problem is how to get along. The problem is how to discuss it. The problem is how to hear someone else. I'm sorry, it's my first observation that sometimes our debate does not, the debate does not allow dialogue. It does not allow quality definition of the position you would like, especially when it comes to national interest. Sometimes it seems to me like a lot of us would say Quasihegelians. Hegel once spoke of a bad style of discussion. He called it an argument "drinks". And she says, "Your mother is a prostitute." Now you have to identify yourself whether you want eggs or a prostitute. That's Hegel's example of a non-dialogue under the firm's dialogue. The truth can sometimes, instead of mother or wife as prostitutes, mention an uncle or someone else, but that, as we heard yesterday. This does not lead to dialogue among anyone in particular, especially among those who intend to strategically because of the strategic national interest in agreeing to help together to master a great strategic business into the European Union for our benefit, rather than to our harm. Now that I'm saying it, then I need to warn you something. I warn that the negotiations that only they actually make after "screening" should begin will not be easy for Croatia. And it's already indicated, we're being tested for one better-quality approach. It's not enough harmonisation of the law. The European Union has burned with some with whom it has negotiated, who have not yet entered the European Union but have entered before us where it has been seen that laws are easier to adopt and formally harmonize but are not implemented. They require implementation not only of the concept of reform but also of consistent implementation which is far more difficult. And the results of that implementation, which is far more difficult. I'd even say here openly. I think that in the European Union, against pessimists who think that we have some great resistance, I think that in the European Union, Croatia is very open in terms of Croatia's need to enter the European Union, and that is not questionable. But negotiations won't be easy because they're testing on us the increased demands that we're going to have to meet for those who come after us. The rest of Europe that comes after us into the European Union. And don't be surprised I'm telling you. They were alive and seen. But these are the circumstances that we must overcome. We have to be realistic with them. As someone said, we are entering the European Union, not entering the European Union in Croatia. We must accept and see in the negotiations where we can do what we can, accept the rules and standards of the same European Union. And there's something else I want to say. I have assessed that the debate on the National Committee is of great quality and when we differ and when we disagree why not, but it is very important to be in this debate that I said tolerant and I stress it. Feel it. So our agreement to join the European Union does not mean at the same time preventing us from thinking the same thing in key issues of internal policy that are important for this entry. We think differently. Well, that's understood. Please, I have stressed with full right and with full awareness that the negotiations themselves are only one aspect of this process, the final process of approximation. Another important aspect that is ours and is crucial to us that we do to enable Croatia to enter its optimal benefit in the European Union, not to harm beyond what is necessary. What are we doing? I will now say this little temperament to me it is quite clear that Europe's objectives are in negotiations with Croatia. He wants an orderly, stable country that accepts its legislation and its standards. That makes sense. They want our market as little as it is and someone seems vulgar, but logical. They also want us to take over part of European work in regional co-operation. For the sake of stability, they want us to stabilize this part of Europe logically. Many of us will be able to define very precisely what Europe wants from Croatia in the negotiations. I am not able, however, to say what Croatia wants from the European Union in the negotiations. And that's the point where we need a critical dialogue, to see what else we can do for our benefit and don't close the debate space. I don't accept closing that space. I am speaking now as a solid euro optimist, the one who was and is for the strategic purpose of Croatia's entry into the European Union, and I want to contribute and believe the ones I represent as well. But we need dialogue on whether we have done everything and what we have not done in order to be able to get into our benefit in the European Union, so that we can enter the European Union in a good way. What our strategic goals are globally on which we will insist, and where we say this is not so important. In each segment, agriculture is mentioned, so it is logical that we cannot enter the European Union with this current agricultural structure. If we go in there, it's a devastation. But now the question is, where do we see any comparative advantages? Is that, I'm not an agricultural expert, is that the wheat that we had to do anyway pretty, please nice, or is that maybe something else? We need to know now. We know that agricultural resources when we enter the European Union are blocked. Are we now on the line of strategic knowledge where our comparative advantage is and where we can be... competition ruthless in the European Union and what to do to defend this competitive position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The group that took part in the negotiations in Malta went away, and I saw from the media that I was looking into their case. Very good. Very good. I know, for example, that they went on a non-discrimination basis to protect their fishing. Who was there knows what I'm talking about. On a non-discriminatory basis, because this is the only thing the European Union accepts. There's no other way. That's where fish can hunt no matter whose flag it is, right? Ships having a certain size limit or power, and if such a ship reaches Malta, etc. And you know what our goal is? What our measures are non-discriminatory to protect fishing in Croatia, I as a non-professional for fishing. This example of Malta cannot be applied in Croatia right now, because at the same time we finance the construction of large fishing vessels. Now we tell them I can't fish in the Adriatic. I want to show you to the bottom of the banal where the problem is. We now need to know a lot of things about how to protect our interest, and we need to talk about it, talk about it. You should see different ideas, suggestions, etc. That is why we need this debate very much. Or please, let me conclude. It has been mentioned many times in the debate, and I must say that almost one meeting with people from Europe does not go through to potentiate the issue of real estate acquisition. Yeah, we can only protect real estate on a non-discrimination basis. We can say that we will protect the property of Croatian citizens, give them a greater right and tell others I can't, but then let's stop negotiating. Let us forget the European Union, and we can do a lot to protect the devastation of space, land, what we can do and must do on a non-discriminatory basis. Now I'm going to say rudely from domestic and foreign hahars that are attacking towards that space. Croatia is a small country. Her resource is a valuable space. It is a beautiful part and at the same time lucky or unfortunate and unused which is also the capital of Croatia. We can protect it and we have to. We agreed, for example, that at the next session of the main committee, we would simply show what are all possibilities for non-discriminational protection of real estate. Well, now it's just a question of whether we're doing it now, now, not tomorrow. Now, that's what we need to discuss and to conclude. As far as I'm concerned, I hope that we in the democratic atmosphere and in a tolerated way will continue to debate and work on the National Committee, and when we disagree and believe that the worse part of this debate, where there has been a lot of debates that we know, will not be so easily penetrated at the National Committee session, because there is a big job waiting for us. Regardless of the differences and the role of the National Committee and here on this speaker, it could be heard in this debate that those who think that the National Committee should work less. That's what the Prime Minister thought, I hope not seriously. Sometimes you need to take it funny, right? But some think that the National Committee should far more work, more work, even more something that his powers in deciding... We have defined what the National Committee should do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, I believe that the report, which will come back to the Parliament's session in a year, will be more content because in that period, more content and more difficult work is waiting, and at the same time, I am expressing dissatisfaction that, I am now speaking as a representative, which has not come to our session of the Croatian Government's report on the negotiations. It is about the conclusion that we seem to have made every 6 months and the government report on cooperation with the European Union to the Croatian Parliament. This is how the mandate goes six months in the European Union. I recall there's a good custom from this pay phone that the Prime Minister reminds himself of unfulfilled obligations, so it could be done this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64813	We'll see if the deadline's up. How quickly these mandates run. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64815	Dear counterpart Racan, saying as chairman of the National Committee, highlighted the non-discriminatory models applied by Malta in protecting its fisheries. But that's not all Malta did. Namely, the prerequisite was to determine the state of the fish stock in their fishing zone. Today, however, we are in a situation where Croatia has since 3 October 2003 since ZERP was declared, i.e. since 10 July 2001, when the Assembly discussed on the proposal of the HSP the expansion of the economic belt to the day of today has not yet established the state of the fish fund in our half of the Adriatic, i.e. in our future economic belt, i.e. the current ZERP, which is not implemented by the Bene note. How, then, do we implement the fisheries partnership negotiations if we haven't established the precondition that Malta had when she entered those negotiations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64816	Thank you very much. Comrade Rachan, I think this is the report we received from the Parliament, but the causa's information is correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64817	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64818	And distributed it to the Parliament, to the MPs. But we'll check that out, okay. I'm closing the debate. Continuing in 15 and 30, yes, it's a very useful suggestion. We will begin by discussing the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Taxes, and then they will go on taxes on oil derivatives, on the oil market and on oil derivatives. It's a 13-50-hour meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're going to vote on the debated points. Please engage to determine the quorum. No Czecho? And that's hard questions, tough questions. Tough questions, yeah. Could the gentlemen be in their seats? The quorum? 80 good. It's okay. We've got a quorum. First vote. Report on the work of the National Committee for 2005. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the National Committee for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the proposed conclusion on the adoption of the report was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64821	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Therefore, according to the applicable Profit Tax Act, the tax base reductions for the sums of salaries and contributions of newly employed, the reduction of the tax base for the sums of the costs incurred for research and development and the reduction of the tax base for the sums of the costs incurred for schooling and professional training of employees are prescribed. You know that one of the biggest problems with middle-aged people is when they lose their jobs that in principle without additional schooling and without additional qualifications they can hardly continue the work and those who work without talking about those who are jobless. That's why this tax relief was introduced. But right now, I'd like to say that with these tax reliefs, they're gone. They are only passed through other legal forms to competent and resolute ministries and, in view of the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, they are only deleted from the Tax on Profits Act. But I would also like to say that this is such a very interesting topic for political bickering and debates that the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. The proposed tax exemptions shall therefore be deleted and transferred at the same time to the jurisdiction of the ministries in charge. And what is important for us to point out is that by transferring these tax reliefs to the departments responsible for managing state aid, we will get one greater transparency of using these funds because, according to the tax administration last year, with the basis of all these incentives, it was paid to the state budget somewhere less than 375 million kuna, so so many taxpayers have reduced their base using these reliefs and so much less paid profit tax. The proposal would therefore achieve two objectives. First, the system of fiscal and state support would be harmonised with the legal gains of the European Union. Secondly, the proposed provisions would open up the possibility of a greater spectrum of incentives through the profit tax system than is possible at this time, since the proposed amendments open the possibility of reducing the tax base for the amount of incentives, i.e. approved State aid under specific rules without the purpose of the Profit Tax Act. And what I would like to say in the end is that these amendments, the amendment and the addition of the Tax on Profits Act, apply from 1.1.2007. Therefore, there is plenty of time and space left to make sure by the end of the year that some of the reliefs not incorporated into the Support Act and the Action Plan to encourage the installation and that, in practice, since 1.1.2007, when the new amended Tax on Profits is in force in the relevant ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64822	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? Finance and the state budget? European integration? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the HNS Club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64823	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! On several occasions, the Croatian People's Party proposed certain innovations, improvements and changes in tax laws, including profit tax, so a few months ago we proposed that the profit tax be calculated according to the place of origin and not according to the company's headquarters, which was rejected in the Assembly by the argument that it was complicated, inconclusive and similar. I don't know if you've heard, the Republic of Austria has launched an initiative in the European Union that the tax on profit in the European Union is not charged towards the headquarters of the company but to the users, so where it came from. It's going to be a rule that we're going to have to adapt to one day. But let me get back to this law. What is this bill doing? It introduces tax scissors into three key segments of importance for the interest of the Republic of Croatia. First, new employment. We can't get the number of unemployed below 300 grand. He's now at 300 and some thousands. With this step if, in other regulations and elsewhere, the same or similar benefit subsidies and help employers do not fit in, the number will certainly not be reduced, it will eventually increase. The problem, of course, is the poor structure of the labour force, especially a middle-aged person, so for more than 40 years, it's falling under the tax scissors in the second segment of this law, the one concerning education and training of employees. So far, funds have been spent on education and employment of employees have been reduced from a tax base. So, the tax base has been reduced by these assets besides all other incentives that exist in other regulations, the tax base has been reduced here. Unless mechanisms are found to compensate properly, we will find it difficult to improve the educational qualification structure of employees now and we should ask what happens to the organisation of extraordinary studies at the mass of places in Croatia. In fact, employees of this age have made it perfectly clear that education and further training are the only way to survive a possible pension, and this has resulted in the opening of a large number of extraordinary studies throughout the Republic of Croatia. If such a subsidy is not adequately compensated to the employer for the training and education of the employees, it will be that there has been a failure in the business moves of the institutions which have, such, organised such training. The third aspect in which the shears are affected is research and development. Research for development in Croatia outside the University and a few state institutes has an extremely small size, less than in the countries in which we see ourselves. In the Western countries of the market economy. So these institutions that are conducting research today primarily talk about scientific research in Croatia are not subject to tax scissors anyway. So this is not about one side or the other. It concerns those few companies that organise research within their own research and development departments if additional measures do not compensate again for practically all research and development in Croatia except in higher education institutions. Therefore, the tax base for these activities, for new employment, for education and training of employees and for research and development is no longer reduced. That's how Europe wants it. Okay. That's how Europe wants it, that's what we signed in the Association Agreement. And we should stick to that, of course. But none of us can ask that we give up mechanisms to encourage these three key aspects of life. I can freely say the aspect of survival before we introduce new mechanisms of similar effects to compensate for this, this erasure. Why is it important to encourage new employment not to explain it to anyone in Croatia? Why is it important to encourage education? Well, I guess that's why we should at least try to reach an educational level of countries with which we have customs, will and desire to compare and that the economy as it is is is competitive enough for us to show up on that market. It'll be competitive enough if we do, if it's based on knowledge and what people do to a proper educational profile. Why is it important to encourage research and development not to explain it to anyone? No new sense, no new knowledge, no new products, no future. We can try to sell a little bit more cheap labour, it won't stay cheaper for long than it is in the west. It is already significantly more expensive today than with our eastern neighbours who have a similar capacity, both industrial and educational. All in all, these three tax scissors mechanisms if they have to pin the existing Tax Tax Act on profit should be compensated at present, or before that, by other mechanisms which, in this Bill Proposal or the Reasonation, the Government claims exist, to open up new opportunities, but do not even say what it is? What are these, what are the concrete moves that will be made relatively quickly by the end of the year in the next six months? Proposer says new possibilities are opening up, quote. Maybe. But it would be correct, fair, and I think it's only useful that we first shape these possibilities so that every employer understands them clearly, that he knows what he can call on. That he knows what he can expect next year, and then we'll go use the tax scissors here. No one makes us do it in a week or two or three or a month. If there is enough time for new mechanisms to be formed and implemented then there is enough time for these waiting mechanisms to be abolished at the moment of the formation of new mechanisms. Until then, the Croatian People's Party cannot support such a proposal. The moment we see how things are going to develop on a new basis. What will the ministries, the competent ministries, do to encourage these three aspects of Croatia's development and survival, then we will be able to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64824	Thank you. For the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64825	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say a few sentences on behalf of the Club of the Istrian Democratic Assembly on this new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits. The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia has taken over the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to bring tax incentives and exemptions which have been assessed by the European Commission as fiscal state aid incompatible with the rules on the functioning of the single market, with the legal acquis of the European Union for state aid. Tax exemptions and exemptions from the laws which the European Commission has assessed as selective and incompatible with the acquis need to be harmonised. According to the current Profit Tax Act, the minimum tax base for the sum of salaries and contributions to the salary of new employees is prescribed to reduce the tax base for the amount of costs incurred for research and development and to reduce the tax base for the amount of costs incurred for schooling and professional training of employees. These tax reliefs do not correct, do not meet the criteria of the legal acquis of the European Union for the approval of state aid, research in development, employment and improvement. In accordance with Article 70 of the Treaty on The Stabilisation and Association Agreements of the tax relief and exemption concerned should be brought into line with the State aid Act, the State Aid Regulation and the rules resulting from Article 70. Stabilisation and Association Agreements, i.e. the relevant acquis of the European Union. What is proposed is that the tax exemptions and incentives provided for in Articles 25, 26 and 27 of the Law be deleted and transferred in the next period to the competent departments responsible for the management of state support for research and development, investment promotion, employment and improvement for the purpose of transparency and effectiveness of those incentives, i.e. possible State support, and that specific programmes lay down measures for R & D based on legislative proposals, and employment and improvement. We at the IDS Club always advocate transparency and efficiency of incentives and we will support every positive shift in that direction. There are already regulations in the Croatian legal system that sort out certain issues of incentives. However, they do not fully round the scope and content of the incentive system, which provides for the legal property of the European Community. If that proposal would be achieved, firstly, to bring the fiscal state aid system into line with the acquis of the European Union and secondly to open the proposed provisions to the possibility of a valid spectrum of incentives through the profit tax system, rather than, as possible at this time, since the proposed amendments would open up the possibility of reducing the tax base for the amount of incentives or granted State aid to specific applications without giving rise to a purpose in the Tax Tax on Profits Act, then this should be well taxed. What I consider particularly important is that administrative capacity is related to the supervision of the incentive system or state aid system transferred to the Competition Protection Agency under Article 70(4). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The State aid law which determines that the Competition Protection Agency approves and oversees the implementation of State aid and requires the recovery of State aid granted or used against the rules. Here I would like to mention that the Agency for the Protection of Competition, the Agency of the Croatian Parliament, and that this agency with the President of the Council, Mrs Olgica Spevec, is, in my opinion, one of the most orderly and best in the Republic of Croatia. The administrative capacity related to the scope and content of the incentives, i.e. the preparation and implementation of certain resorient state aid, exists exclusively in the resolution bodies, which in my opinion is good. I agree that only experts in the science portfolio can adequately address the issue of the scope and content of incentives for research and development in the field of basic research. The tax administration of the Ministry of Finance in the administrative field of incentives, i.e. State aid, is in the role of technical implementation at the level of the tax system, and at the level of the expert body which can give an objective opinion on whether certain proposed incentives, i.e. possible State support, can be carried out, and what impact it will have on the overall tax system. At this level and ceases to be relevant to the tax administration of the Ministry of Finance, which cannot be responsible for the scope and content of certain resorient incentives, i.e. State support and their impact analysis on further development. From the comparison of the applicable State aid rules with the provisions proposed for amendments and amendments, it is clear that the applicable provisions of the Tax on Profit Act are not in line with the provisions of the State Aid Act and the State Aid Regulation and the European Commission has stated on a number of occasions that the relevant corporate tax provisions in the fiscal support segment are not in line with the legal gains of the European Union and need to be amended urgently. And what is also important is that this opinion is shared by the Competition Protection Agency. Finally, we at the IDS Club will always advocate that proposals that favour development and support for the progress of the Republic of Croatia's entry into the European Union should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64826	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64827	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here are some reasons why we support this change on behalf of the HDZ Club. We were here at the end of the year and the beginning of the year discussing the state budget but also later discussing the work of the Competition Protection Agency on all these aspects and the need to change fiscal incentives. We also accepted the obligation under the SAA to bring this harmonisation into line in the prescribed time so that we could meet the Agency's work as well as our own needs and compliance with European directives. Here, the current way of regulating mostly fiscal support has already been given to three segments, and this is to encourage new employment, to encourage research and education and human development. Here it is freely said that it was a multiplicited incentive and that now, following these needs that I said in the introduction, it is necessary to comply and apply in a way that the provisions of the Tax on Profits in these articles are deleted and that preparation is done and we believe that until adoption, and not only believe, but we also require and it will be done to implement the allocation of these reliefs on support in individual sectors and individual ministries. So there's no risk but no reason to do so until this law is applied. It should also be said that in this allocation through individual ministries, it should be carried out precisely in generations so that they are not exposed to risks or doubts about the use of funds, i.e. incentives for research and development that may possibly be the subject of different discussions, we think that this can even be used more effectively in new solutions that need to be used through the Ministry of Science and other ministries. That is why we are copying this first step of reform in this part of fiscal incentives to bring these changes into line, but also to make other changes that will be made and brought into line until the start of the application of this law. We therefore support this change and believe that this should be brought precisely for the reason that it is the basis for these others to locate these support in other support sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64828	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64829	I would like to thank Mr. President, gentlemen and Mr. Secretary with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. These changes and income tax additions are certainly part of the reform of fiscal state aid. In the first step, articles related to regional state support were deleted in 2005, and these changes and complements the second step in the same reform of fiscal state support. In accordance with Article 70 of the Treaty on The Stabilisation and Association Agreements of the tax relief concerned and the rules resulting from the Article 70 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be brought into line with the State Aid Act of 2005, the State Aid Regulation and the rules set out in that Article. Stabilisation and Association Agreements, i.e. the relevant acquis of the European Union. This proposal proposes to delete the exemption tax and incentives provided for in Article 6(1) of points (a) and (b) of Article 25, 26, 27 of the Law in the coming period and to transfer to the competent departments responsible for the management of state aid for R & D, for the promotion of investment, for employment and training. In this way, better efficiency of these incentives will be achieved and their transparency will be accepted as an explanation. We believe that it is most appropriate, as the promoter argues, that individual ministries in which the work is part of the business are regulated by the basis of adopted development strategies to develop measures to encourage the activities in question. Of course, we can agree in the assessment that only experts in the science portfolio can adequately identify the issue of the scope and content of incentives for research and development in the field of basic research, etc. This, of course, was, as others said, an easier part of the job. Since no declaration of conformity was necessary, i.e. making a parallel display as part of a declaration of conformity, since the Law on profit tax is harmonised in such a way that provisions which are not harmonised by the agreement are simply deleted from the law. It seems to me that this is the only objection to this bill, and that is why, in our view, it was necessary to adopt parallel displays and a declaration of compliance, i.e. to cross over all the necessary legislative proposals that would regulate this system in a different way. Because it seems to me that only by eradicating articles that have so far been the basis for subsidisation and for encouraging these activities have not been achieved in the end. Because as many of these gentlemen have said, these compensation systems are going to sort out in a way that's going to work out what's lost by abolishing and changing this corporate tax code. This is mostly unsettled and therefore we at the HSS Club with infidelity are actually looking at this approach which actually offers only the abolition of those articles that have solved this problem in the existing Tax on Profits, and not at the same time offering solutions that will be consistent with the law and with the gains of the European Union. And that's an important objection to the proposer of the law. And so we ask that such laws be introduced in parallel in the package, not individually and on, in principle, reverse approach. It seems to me that this was the last step that had to regulate this problem and it as a last resort to our benches as a consequence of all those laws that should have been proposed, and of course, without even thinking about it, we could also accept this bill's proposal. Therefore, we ask for more serious and serious approaches to these problems and the problems of tax reform at all. Because in this way, only by stripping and meeting all the obligations that we have under the signed agreements, not by offering all the final solutions, we create a mess in the tax system, which I don't think is a goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64830	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64831	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance. Almost everything you've listed here in the light of this law stands. So, the fact is that by ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Croatia has accepted a completely pointless and unnecessary provision in our court that we will coordinate our support system with the European Union's support system. The deadline for this alignment has been set for 4 years. Which will say that Croatia must comply with its own development and economic interests over 4 years, not with its own development and economic interests, but with the development and economic interests of the European Union. It is, of course, harmful and bad for Croatia, but what is there. The agreement has been ratified. He's in effect. That's what a number of debates are about when it comes to the State Support Act. Moreover, even the Competition Protection Agency has been overqualified to deal with this problem with the rest. So, we don't actually have a lot of maneuver space here. However, as much as we welcome these articles regarding the transparency of law enforcement, i.e. the simplification of profit tax payments. It is truly unusual for us to delete Article 26, which regulates a whole series of tax reliefs, announcing that one day when you solve the problem of state aid in line with the requirements of the European Union, no matter what that means when it happens. I think it is not good and that this law should actually have been written in a completely different way, and that is to delete these articles, if you already think that they are bad and parallel to give some others who are in line with the European Union or leave the existing law in force until the conclusion of that part of the negotiations with the European Union regarding the level of state aid. What is the need to destroy and pass on our state aid system, which is foreseen with the rest of this law if we have not yet completed this part of the negotiations with the European Commission? For these reasons, it's hard for us to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64832	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64833	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I think there's a few things I need to explain here. First of all, a new aid law was adopted and adopted in this High House. Second, the government also adopted a new State Aid Regulation at its meeting two weeks ago. But what is to be said by noon here was the debate on Europe, the approximation of the European Union, the harmonisation of legislation and all together. We can't start screening from this area in the 6th month if we don't change the Tax on profit. And in order for all these provisions to be incorporated into the laws of resolution ministries they must refuse to agree... to obtain consent from Brussels. [[You don't understand.]] So that we could even start screening from this area we had to amend the Tax on Profits Act, and by the end of the year we had six months to make these provisions not incorporated into certain laws and certain regulations of the relevant ministries to be installed. I'll only tell you about the Law on Encouragement and Research of Development. Be assured that the support that will be regulated by the Law on Encouragement of Research and Development will be far more effective and far more transparent than this one flat-rate option given in the Tax on Profits and I will tell you honestly only one company has used this legal option over the past four years to double-decease its tax base with the basis of scientific research. So it's not technically possible if we want to start screening from this area in the 6th month, it's technically impossible to install all these laws into the laws of the resolution ministries or the regulation of the resolution ministries so that they can start all together. So these reliefs are not lifted, they are simply deleted from the Tax on Profits Act and passed on to other ministries that will regulate it with their own regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64834	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64835	... So the minister says that this law does not eliminate tax reliefs but is otherwise governed by the Support Act. [[Specially enabled.]] There's no other law. Where is it? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64836	Please nice, you're saying that it's incorrect...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64837	And the minister says be assured that it will be settled, here's an honorary word the minister says, we'll be sure to sort it out. Listen, Ministers, this is the first incorrect thing not to be abolished when it is abolished, this law goes according to an emergency procedure. And when it is voted tomorrow, after eight days abolished, almost when the law comes into force. And when he's going to argue, the government can also withdraw him from the procedure. So what you said is completely incorrect and this is a public deception.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64838	And respected representative Marija Lugarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64839	It is an incorrect allegation by Minister Shuker that the screening for this chapter on State aid and competition in this part cannot begin. Screening can begin, screening exactly what it is and serves to compare the legislation Croatian to the legislation of the European Union then you would be told this is bad for you, you need to fix this which would then give you and us time to pass these replacement laws instead of these. Finally, we can also do things in the course of negotiations and negotiate, and before we begin, I think we are simply acting as if what has been given by the European Union was absolutely accurate and true, and I repeat screening is exactly what is used to do a deep analysis of both European and Croatian legislation and then to prepare in response to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64840	Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64841	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Actually, we're a strange people, guys. This morning we had a virtual situation, the Parliament was quite full, probably the public television cameras were all more or less, and we were actually talking about how it should be, and in some ways we swore to this very pro-European orientation, and we simply agreed that, apart from the critical dialogue and the need to really sharpen our views in the right way, that really from that time on, let us not let God turn away, because the European Union is our goal and our purpose of our existence. Now this afternoon is reality and it's a cruel reality. How we prove, or between, how we prove our pro-European orientation, probably tax policy, tax relief, is proved. They also say that freedom is not confirmed through the Constitution but through criminal law. The Constitution is this virtual and fire form in a way that can be legitimate for the white world, but the Penal Code thus rightly shows this freedom and exactly how much you can enjoy it within that freedom. And now here we come. I am very glad that the colleagues from HSLS are also one general place that I think that the profit tax must be tied to the place where this surplus value and profit is being realised, and not towards the company headquarters, and in some way I think that it would be one very important aid for the real and fiscal decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia and not again how we like to stay in one virtual decentralisation, and then, in particular, before the elections, we all swear that as soon as we win the government, as soon as we get the trust of the citizens, but when we get the chance to really prove it and prove it then we still show that this one, apart from the need to control things, just beat those promises that we have so bravely and easily made in the pre-election campaign. And it was before 2000, it was during 2000, so here it is, in 2003, not a bit different. And he's right when he says actually, and we've confirmed it all today, that the rules that and the complexity of how I like to say it, which are determined by the European Union are difficult to change and that, on this complexity, that complexity must be... by its own complexity. And here we now have this bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Profit Tax, what with one small beginning, we will do it, or we will do it, things will start, the National Committee will report us again after a year and talk about the need for critical dialogue, probably this critical dialogue there next year, at this time will be even stronger because it will be just the time of the pre-election campaign, and what is called a pro-European orientation, and that is the willingness to respond to our own tax policy by our own, which means research and development, which means education to us. I also recently had a bill here that was rejected and where I was again the same, which was just talking about the need for certain tax reliefs regarding this education and professional training of employees because this paradigm obviously changed. I always get the impression that most of our institutions, we live in a post-industrial, post-information society, but that Guttenberg's galaxy is still more acceptable to us, and that's how we behave. Even though he said, so we're riding the carriages even though everyone else has been driving a lot faster cars a long time ago. And that, and then certainly when someone finishes school or finishes school there in the '70s, '80s, '90s that some new challenges will be very difficult or in no way able to respond in 2010, 2015 and 20s with that knowledge they acquired. We had this last meeting, it was, it seems to me it was called the 21st century education strategy. I must admit that when I took that text from my esteemed colleague Strugar and his team that I was appalled that someone in 2001 dared even speak about the 21st century strategy. It's something like this, some kind of elemental correctness, I'm not going to say political. I'm not going to talk about it, but right now, people, you need to know that these paradigms are now changing in one non-geometric progression. If he dared, already in 2010, it would be pretentious, in 2001, not for the 21st century. So, unfortunately, we act day by day and then we wonder just every time that we don't really move on and our whole wisdom ends up in having a critical dialogue. Now this is the real situation, that we here in Parliament determine what it means to us if we are pro-European-oriented, means this tax policy, or tax relief, and what segments that it must happen to us from this 4 which is a couple of excellence of liberal themes, employment, education, research, development. It can still be listed, but it'll be done by fellow Letica, he's already processed. I've had the opportunity to see one of these very thick studies about health reform, and there is certainly a need to include here and spatial storage, our spatial resources. So let's see and then that we determine ourselves in the right way and not now about having this critical dialogue that's actually going to work out so that something doesn't happen that has to happen and that we're using these six months to see who's going to follow it, and then we can just point it out like this and say, please, what you really did by 1 January 2007, when you would have to do this one transfer, transitions to the interregne, that really these 4 are very important segments in no way damage. Or we're not going another step below this acquired level yet. In that sense, since these couple are the excellence of our topic, it refers to this 4 and 3 segments that we have to solve. We will vote for this amendment and the addition of the law, but precisely on this very strict assumption that we will see what is going to happen, that there will indeed not be any breach of the pro-European policy that we so easily call upon. But when we have to show it in reality, not virtually, then things don't go so easy on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64842	Thank you. A SDP representative club, respected House Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64843	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is because one example or one of the laws that can actually show why our citizens are interested in joining the European Union. And in fact, as much as you're looking at it a little bit and with dissatisfaction because this part of the session isn't being transmitted, it turns out it's a good thing it's not being transmitted, and now I'm going to say why. It is simply impossible to go with the amendment and addition of legislation that individual benefits through tax policy are abolished without offering parallel solutions that will properly address the issue. Among other things, this Law removes tax benefits related to professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons. Then a question for research and development activities, therefore, for science, etc., etc. And we say with some new law we'll settle it by 1.1.2007. The truth is, the law is already discussed in the first reading, but it's not really there. We cannot address our citizens by harmonising our laws on the assumption that we are harmonising this law with the European Union without at the same time offering other opportunities that the European Union and its regulations provide. Second thing I have to say on behalf of our club. You see, among other things, we should comply with this Act with these amendments and amendments, or rather not this Law, but other laws that will regulate incentives should be aligned with the Commission's regulation on State aid for the employment of the European Union. The European Union Framework for State support for research and development, the Commission's State Support Regulations for Professional Training. Next, with a statement from the Commission on the application of the State support rules to measures relating to direct taxation, etc. This is stated in the reasoning of the law. But gentlemen, we don't coordinate. We, and what we had, are erasing and erasing it based on the European Union's remarks that we then took over after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it just can't work like that. In particular, it can't go into our situation if we instead of abolishing this kind of support because we're not harmonising anything with this, but we're abolishing the existing support because we haven't brought the new ones in yet, so we haven't even coordinated it yet. We should perhaps have here a proposal to amend and supplement the Profit Tax Act, which, for example, should be taxed on profits obtained by speculative transactions, which should tax the profits made extra or extra profits based on market rent, position rents, I don't know, natural rents, the exploitation of natural raw materials, etc., etc. And not that what should be a support for carriers because the factor is development, watch out, science, research is development in the country. It is not a cost and it should have been asked quite differently and such questions could not be said in this way in a simplistic manner. Fourth, look, amazing. Among other things, it is said that the new law will open up space for these issues to be brought into line. And then read here as you know in Article 4. Let me read it to all of us and see what's in line. "The Minister of Finance shall be empowered to comply with the implementing rules referred to in Article 37. The law on profit tax, with the provisions of this Act within 6 months of the date of entry into force." And this law erases the provisions that were incentivizing. Therefore, there will be no further incentive. So, what do we really want? We have an example of a bill that is a pure neoliberal concept at which Europe is actually testing in ours, in Croatia the possibility of a new neoliberal approach to economic and social relations which in the European Member States and thus the old members of the European Union... In such a situation, the question arises, in fact, what we do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In my deep conviction, this law should not be passed, and at least not before the adoption or parallel with this law is discussed by a new law that will practically resolve the issue of overall incentives and not only from the point of view of profit tax but also from the aspect of income tax and other issues. I also have to say that it's very interesting, it's said that they want to achieve two goals. First, a system of fiscal state aid would be harmonised with the legal gains of the European Union. It is not true because you just have, I was just reading acts that need to be harmonised, and we have not yet adopted a regulation that sets us in line with, for example, the Commission's regulation on state aid and employment, nor have we been in line with the European Commission for support for research and development. What we've got, we're erasing. So we won't have it anymore, we haven't passed any new laws, what we have. Therefore, the first goal is not achieved at all, so this is a missed text. Second goal. The proposed provision would achieve the possibility of a greater spectrum of incentives through the profit tax system than is possible at this time, since the proposed amendments open the possibility of a reduced tax base for the sum, incentives etc., etc. So I'm asking you a question as to how it's possible that you're going to increase the spectrum when what we have is lifted, but these regulations that should eventually see what this new spectrum is that's expanding in scale and not in content. What's this about? Here the question arises again is whether this is actually the interest of large capital that the small door is actually trying to actually through the elimination of these benefits to enable additional taxation and on the one hand additional taxation and revenue related to the interests of the state, and on the other hand, to release in one part large capital in fact these duties because this is exactly on the line of that existing development centre institutes, for example in our country and we continue to sell further as "Plyva" did, as some others did, etc., etc. Because we don't seem to need science and research because we don't have any interest as a social community, which is what we're proving to be doing. That's why I have to say that we at the Club of Representatives of the SDP are first surprised that this kind of text has even appeared. We are secondly surprised that he is not accompanied by a parallel text that should resolve this issue. Thirdly, we are surprised that this text appears at a time when we need to discuss a national programme on the approximation of the European Union, when we should, by means of this programme and other acts, actually stimulate our citizens to understand the advantages we have with the European Union, not in this way, to further detimise them. And fourthly, of course, we explicitly believe that this would be harmful at this point, and there is no reason for this law to be passed now by at least not by an emergency procedure, the more it starts to apply 1.1 next year. For all these reasons, we of the SDP Representatives Club will not vote for this Act, not only because it differs conceptually from those of the Social Democrats who represent the interests of people who build life on the basis of their work, and some others may be interested in large-scale capital or what we are asking to stimulate growth and development, job creation and employment. Not just for that reason, but among other things, because we don't see the other side that you'd like to... The large capital, in fact, how and how it wants to do it, unless there is again some speculative intent behind it, and so that we don't best guess, is to wait for a new regulation, so together with this law, discuss this issue and that question and make a final decision that will be in the interest of this country, of this people and ultimately of those of whom we all live, these are people who live from their work and based on their work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64844	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What will be the effect of this Law if it enters into force? Tax breaks are lifted. So what's all the tax breaks for? They shall be abolished for the amount of salaries and contributions made to the salary of new employees for the period for which the tax is established. So you don't need to make it easier for a new job. Everyone in Croatia has full employment, everyone in Croatia is doing and what we will now encourage new employment. Well, the minister's doing this so we don't need it... For the amount of costs incurred for research and development, Croatia does not need research or development. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] We have sufficiently developed views of the Minister and Government and we do not need to encourage tax relief to help any development and no research. What do we need that for? The benefits for the amount of costs incurred for schooling and professional training of employees are also lifted. He thinks the Minister and the Government that our people are sufficiently educated and professionally perfected, so they should not be further encouraged by schooling or professional training. Keep going. Tax exemptions shall be lifted for those performing exclusively research and development activities. When they are abolished will research and development activities in Croatia be more or less? Once the tax breaks are lifted, the logical thing is going to be less. It's the way the government drives Croatia. Privileges of profits achieved by investments shall be abolished. Clearly, what will Croatian investment do? Why encourage investment? Well, it's better to encourage consumption. What will the Minister and the Government think about investing in Croatia? These are the effects of this Law. The minister says it's not true, it's not the benefits that are lifted, it's the ones that turn into an incentive, and it's under the State Support Act. Where's the Minister? According to what article of the State Aid Act, this tax relief is converted into support and in what amounts? Please explain this to the Croatian public, in what article and in what terms? You will clearly not be able to do this because the Support Act is one principle law. What's he saying? He speaks of the procedure for the adoption of laws to be supported. This says the Support Act, not who will get the support and whether to receive support for scientific research work and whether to get support for new employment and whether to get support for investment. That law doesn't regulate. So, in other things... The public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who gives support? Who provides support in Croatia anyway? They give ministries or other state bodies laws, give ministries or other state bodies and units of local self-government to other acts. It's the only possible way to provide support. Where are our laws? The new Law, which passed the first reading on state aid, says it will be dealt with by special laws. Support for science in the Science Act. Where are the amendments to the Law on Science where these support will be seen? They're gone. Will that law come? We have no idea. If he comes, what will he look like? We don't know the same thing. It's all a secret wrapped in a veil of mystery. But what do we know? We know the tax relief will be lifted. We know that. And that those who invest in development, who invest in the education of their employees, will have no money, no privileges. We know that the state will have to pay more than they have to pay now. The state will take their money and make a promise that Minister Shuker has just made, and we will deal with it as said by the minister, be assured. Mothers, we'll handle this. It's the way the government comes before parliament. It's the way we talk here about making it easier for science, making it easier for education and making it easier for employment. Secondly, does this law have the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency? There isn't. And should I? You should. According to Article 10 of the applicable State aid Act. And what does this article of the 10th valid State Aid Act say? He said in his 3rd paragraph: "The draft acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this article which are delivered in the procedure to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament without a positive opinion from the Agency shall be returned to the promoter for further work. This law should therefore be returned to the promoter for further consideration because he does not have the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency and must have it under Article 10(3) of the applicable State Aid Act. Why he doesn't have that opinion, we don't know. But if he wasn't here, we certainly know that. So that's where it's said next, that this law hasn't yet. It is a law that we are harmonising with the European Union allegedly, but there is no statement of conformity and it is said not to be. Now, why shouldn't I? He says we shouldn't because we're harmonising in ways to delete some of the provisions of the law. That's not true. Not everything is deleted. Some are changing. Some are deleted, some are changed. Well, at least for those who change, you'd need a certificate of conformity. But there's no confirmation. Therefore, this law is, in a formal, substantive, logical sense, in what it will produce, to the damage it will cause for Croatia, to harm employment, to develop, to education, to science, it is completely unsuitable to discuss it both in the first and second readings, and in particular to discuss it as a final draft of the law. This law must be withdrawn because of the provisions of Article 10(3) of the applicable State aid Act and there is no point in even discussing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64846	Replica esteemed representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64847	Dear fellow Stazic, you said in your presentation about these reliefs for science where it will be, in which laws. And then you mentioned that it would be good if it was in the Science Act that we had the Science Act there. But here a few months ago, it happened that we had a new Law on Science and Higher Education and where there was just a discussion of these reliefs for science and where exactly this same government was refused to enter that law with an explanation that it was in the Tax on Profits Act. So, in some ways with this explanation, I share your claim that there is actually some kind of tampering and a very unconvincing promise.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64848	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64849	Comrade Lugaric, I would not agree with you if you were involved in the act of tampering. There is an obvious government intention to deny any support for the development of science and education and employment in this country. The example that you stated that you refused to settle this in a special law rather than that it would solve it because it is resolved through the Tax on Profits Act and is now thrown out of the Tax on Profits Act and is said to be resolved in some other law in which it did not want to be resolved shows a clear intention of this Government. Keep that money to yourself. Not to return them to those who would reinvest them for science, for education and for employment, but to keep them in the Ministry of Finance because there is no money. He needs Shuker, of course. And who will they take? So they take science, they take education, they take employment. While there are no special laws, while there are no acts of support. People dearly understand, there is no support, there is no.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64850	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64851	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I have to say that I was pleased to finally have one law on the bench that has an E in its name. It means that we have a bill that should make adjustments to the legislation of the European Union. But I cannot accept that the benches under the cover of adjustments come only restrictive laws, and this proposal to amend and supplement the Tax on Profit is exactly that, or a restrictive proposal that is already affecting acquired rights. These acquired rights are taken away and this is certainly not a request from the European Union, but it corresponds to the Government so that the budget will receive as much money as possible. The existing Tax Tax on Profit is prescribed to reduce the pay base and to contribute to the salary of new employees for the amount of costs incurred for research and development. For the amount of costs incurred for training and professional training of employees. Apparently, such defined tax reliefs do not meet the criteria of the European Union acquis for the approval of state aid in research and development, employment and improvement, as this would be a double reduction of the base. For those costs, but also for additional support received. This should already be addressed by specific regulations in order to regulate the right to receive state aid for these purposes and, of course, their height, and then the amount of these support will be a reduction of the tax base in the calculation of the profit tax. This removes the relief in this law. However, it is stated that they will be regulated in a different way through specific support regulations in order to monitor the support system more transparently. So it's really paid out of the budget or some kind of release. So far, the Tax Administration has determined whether the reductions in the tax base for those costs are justified and realistic and would now, by way of a special regulation, have been declared to be support and, under the obligation of special accounting monitoring of those same ones, would be simpler to determine the actual amount of the tax base reduction. As far as this proposal is concerned, we can say that it is basically good, but the fact that it is being touched and changed one day the rights that only then other regulations must be defined. So the rights that are abolished by this law need to be abolished, and the question is, when will these other laws be passed or when will these rights be returned to the citizens? Then we can only conclude that the Ministry of Finance should have brought all other accompanying documents in parallel with this Law so that these people would not be left without their rights. Because it is realistic to expect that by abolishing this law, one's acquired rights will end the question of when will these rights be regained by our citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64852	Thank you. 16.35 is time for individual debates on this point. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64853	Well, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, reading all these laws, these proposals, watching little bit of how the State budget went about education and science only raises one question to me. And that is the question of what will you start Croatia and fulfill your pre-election promise? The funds for scientific and research activities in the State budget compared to 2003, when they were €185 million, you reduced to € 130 million. The funds for projects and programmes of scientific, technological and research activities in the State budget compared to the €35 million in 2003 you reduced to €20 million. The funding for the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education projects, with two different contexts, is going down from over 30 million kuna to 800 thousand kuna. There are even more, even more, such items in the budget. I'm not taking them all out here right now because we talked about it when we discussed the Budget. It is said, particularly from this government, that science, education, investment in technological and research activities is a priority, but there is no evidence for that. What we get from this government as far as the State budget is concerned is the continuing reduction of funds specifically for scientific and technological projects and programmes, and on the other hand by other accompanying laws we have at least a questionable solution or solutions that cause exactly this kind of debate. If somewhat, but only somewhat can it be accepted and the explanation that this has been made in order to comply with the legislation of the European Union I can agree in this debate with all those colleagues and colleagues who have then, in parallel with this law, have been required to amend these other laws which you yourself are calling for in an explanation that you will adopt them, such as the Law on the Encouragement of Research and Development and the like. The fact is that in Croatia we can base our development, generate some new values solely and only on increased investment and good projects in research technology activities and then in new scientific activities, but if we want to move forward as much as we want and as much as we've given ourselves the ambition to go, we won't be able to do it just from budget funds. It is precisely trends that budgets remain at some minimum levels but that these extra budget funds are therefore being increased, which would then be supported by one of the other fundamentals of the economy and those more applied in the economy are being financed, while in some ways benefit is being realised both for the state and for the State budget. And not on the other hand, that's not for the state budget's own reasoning. We can base ourselves on arguments like this and such, the Law on Support which, it is not, it will be, the program will be like this, the program will be like this, but one fact cannot be reduced. That you here abolish several articles of the law and, among other things, abolish tax reliefs relating to research and development funds. To eliminate the reliefs that relate to the costs incurred for schooling and professional training of employees, which I personally find rather odd. It wasn't so much a debate here, but the fact is that a whole continuum of employees has to go through continuous and continuous education so that they can function on such a market as it is and what it will be like in globalised conditions. There have already been a lot of conversations about the suspension of a provision relating to the fact that taxes on profits do not have to be paid by those taxpayers who carry out exclusively research development activities and only one part of your exposure that you have previously said that very few users have used this tax relief in some way. I mean team by Croatia up. Croatia's team is up because other than looking for people, to encourage them now, in some way, we're demoting them in all of this. This is about tax reliefs, or that this reduction in income tax payments is about those taxpayers who make up, who carry out the professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities, I think it's extremely strange for me. I think it is quite contrary to the Declaration of Persons with Disabilities brought unanimously by this Croatian Parliament. That it is in complete dissension with national, unique, national single policy for people with disabilities. And it seems to me that you came here anyway with one unprepared law, not sufficiently well-explained law despite all your attempts to explain it all together, and to me personally, it would have been much nicer if we had gotten parallel to this law, and other laws that would somehow replace these suspensions that we have here, and then, in some ways, it would have been easier for you, because we would have been deprived of these discussions, and this way we can't take away the impression that it's about the suspensions, that it's about again and I don't know which times this government has reduced resources for education, science, research and technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64854	Thank you. Final review, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64855	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It would be very interesting to switch off this afternoon's debate with this afternoon. Then they'd see all their opposites, etc. But we forget what we signed at the SAA. That's what we're forgetting. Who has passed the Stabilisation and Association Act, which states that all reliefs in tax laws will be abolished? It wasn't brought by the HDZ government. We're just making a commitment from that SAA so we can start negotiations and screening. And you can say whatever you want. He can use inappropriate rhetoric representative Stazic. However, we screening in the 6th month from this area cannot begin unless we amend the Tax on Profit. The aid law and the Aid Regulation have created the possibility to use far more resources in a more quality way for these support to all of us. Unfortunately, incentives that are not given horizontally and which are not given for projects are the waste of taxpayers' money. Yeah, that's exactly it. And this Law on Profit Tax and the Law on the Encouragement of Research and Development will better direct taxpayers' money. I was here as a representative when I was offered a state budget, and two days or three days after that we got laws that had a significant impact on the revenues of the state budget. However, if we want to go to the European Union, and we all say that we want to, then let us not plant our feet when we go into harmonisation of legislation with the European Union. I repeat, the HDZ government did not bring in an SAA that said that by 1.3.2006, all the benefits from the Profit Tax Act must be deleted. So that's it. Here is the proposed amendment of the law that it might be to start screening from this area. Even those from your club who are often guests in Brussels as members of the negotiating team know that very well. And they know that without amending the Tax on Profits Act in this chapter, negotiations cannot begin. And for the sake of the minimum correctness, that's what I should have said here today. And that's why we're going to this session of the law, with an amendment to this law, so we can start negotiations. Because let's not, as we were saying, that in the first trimester no certain laws were passed, that nine zeroes. Then let us not speak as we have recently spoken for certain technical reasons to delay this screening for the judiciary that this chapter is also being postponed. This is a prerequisite that you could start screening and that you could start negotiations in this area. And I think those who have signed the Agreement and worked on the negotiations of the SAA should know that very well. And we should also know that we can't start screening at the beginning of the 6th month if we don't pass this law. If you look at how much this law requires new laws, then it will, and since all these laws must be consistent with... the harmonisation and opinion of the European Union must pass, then all these laws are impossible to pass in parallel with this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those who wrote the SAA know very well that's how it is. But obviously, when it comes to political rhetoric and political games, then we are no longer all for the European Union. We are for the European Union when it is politically appropriate for us, and when it is not politically appropriate for us then we play the political games we play. However, I argue that this law is nothing more than the technical harmonisation of the Tax on Profits Act with the legislation of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64856	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Second. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, first and second reading, emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 4 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64859	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, if there were not all that the reasoning of this law would be very short and very simple. So because of the situation that the Republic of Croatia cannot possibly influence because the trend in prices of crude oil on the world market is something that the Government of the Republic of Croatia certainly cannot influence. However, the possibility to respond in a timely manner, at least to mitigate the rise in oil prices and thus to protect the standard of Croatian citizens and the impact on the economy, the Government has proposed to amend the Law on Special Value Added Tax, which proposes that Article 3 of Article 5 be allowed to change the amount of excise duties to the Government by means of a regulation. So, in practice, given that the process of amending laws and procedures when it must be done in the Croatian Parliament is very complex and long term, or so to say, it is proposed to introduce floating excise duties. But also, since I'm guessing what's going to happen later, I'd like to say that when the price of gasoline was 7 kuna and 20 limes, then the price of barrels of crude oil on the world market was somewhere around $27,28. Today the price of that same gasoline is 8 kuna. However, the price of barrels of crude oil is somewhere around $70.71. So we have an increase of almost 170 percent of the elemental raw materials or basic raw materials for the production of petroleum derivatives. At the same time, these derivatives have not averaged more than 30%. And that's the best answer whether the government has kept its policy under price control or not in the past. We also forget that we sold the oil company to the INA. We forget that we sold the package 25% plus the gold share and that we gave the INA sales contract a very strong management right to our strategic partner. That's what I'm saying because the idea of introducing an extra profit on oil produced in Croatia, and then it's said that in this way INA achieves a profit 3 or 4 times bigger than INA's. And it is also forgotten that by selling INA we have one provision that says that if any decision is made that does not, I quote the provision of the law rather than persuading it. Therefore, if any decision is taken that has a higher financial amount than 80 million, it cannot be made without the consent of at least one vote of the strategic partner. So we forget that INA is no longer a state-owned company, we forget that the government can no longer make decisions like it could until the moment INA was privatised and we forget a number of other things. However, what I said at the beginning of my presentation I will repeat now in the end. The price of barrels of crude oil has increased somewhere around 170% and the price of most wanted derivatives is a Euro super 95 low-supervised and the euro diesel has increased on average around 30%, and then the question is whether the government reacted or the government did not react. So this bill proposes only to the Croatian Parliament that by amending this law, it enables it to change the amount, the amount of excise duties by regulation and in such a way that if there are significant disturbances in the market for crude oil, the world market for crude oil, it can, with agreement with our oil company and with the change of excise duties, protect the practical standard of living and competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64860	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64861	To make it a little more reasonable to understand the price comparison, then I'm correcting Minister Shuker. The price of the derivatives does not take everything at the pump but rather takes what is the refinery price and when we talk about the euro super, the euro diesel was no more than 3 kuna. So when we talk about the rise in oil prices, then we're talking about the refinery price of derivatives, and it's not more than three kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64862	The Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64863	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support amendments to the Law on Special Tax on Oil Products. The content and consequences of applying these amendments will result in regulation of the price of oil derivatives in acceptable frameworks, of course, depending on the trend in prices of crude oil on the world market. The important change is that these proposed changes allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to react spotily to an increase in the price of crude oil on the world market in order to address the possible adverse consequences that these excessive prices of oil derivatives on the domestic market could cause both the economy and the population. The amounts of the specific tax on petroleum products are now set out in Article 5 of the existing law in absolute amounts for certain types of petroleum products, of course depending on their specificities for some per litre and for some per kilogram of net weight. The proposed amendment to Article 5 lays down a tax base for the calculation of a specific tax in such a way that the specific tax on the following petroleum products, i.e. motor gasoline, unleaded gasoline, diesel fuels, euro diesel, leaching oil, is calculated per litre, for other species per kilogram of net weight. Paragraph 3 allows the Government to react without delay with regard to the regulation of appropriate levels of specific taxes in view of the emerging situation on the market, which may be caused by changes in oil prices. Respecting this increase in the price of crude oil and consequently the increase in retail prices for fuel, especially for unleaded gasoline and diesel fuel, this law proposes to delete the applicable levels of the special tax, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is empowered to make decisions on the regulation of the level of specific tax on petroleum products for a certain period, taking into account changes in retail prices. These amendments therefore propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may intervene to protect the standards of Croatian citizens, to reduce the burden on our economy and to preserve its competitiveness in line with the possibilities. Since an emergency procedure has been proposed and adopted, and given the flexibility that is needed here, given everything that has been said forward, we also support such an emergency procedure and therefore once again finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club supports the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64864	Thank you. For the club IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64865	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Of course, the IDS will vote for this bill, but let's get a little bit into that gene, although before I say it should be objective, to admit what the minister said, the price of oil is growing, it's not controversial. For five years, one barrel was below $40, today it's $75, at some point it's going down a little bit, it's growing even over $76, but fortunately there's no shortages, there's no recession. In fact, the world economy is not stopped without the cost of oil, even the IMF said recently, that global growth will be 4.9% of the world economy in 2007. 4.9%. It is true that this expensive oil leads to a slowdown in consumption, and then what to do and it is not said that the United States will ultimately not strike Iran and that even God will not stop the price of oil below $100. Finally, America needs expensive oil because it's well funded by their Iraqi adventure. That's what global opportunities mean, and as far as domestics are concerned, I'm not going to say political laxity, I'm going to say non-compliance. If something disabling confidence in the government lately, then it's a discrepancy over the oil collection that happened there on the 28th, not the 28th before 28, so somewhere around 25 and 24.4. In the end, the government pulled, by my judgment, I'm going to say it a little bit, a strange move. She even replaced Mr Brusic, who acted from 8 months 2005 to 4 months 2006. So it's only eight months. And that's where I claim that the government has shown weakness in that shift. Mr Dragicevic was not to be clearly touched because it was the acquisition of President Mesic to say that the Ban Courts and the Presidential Courts agreed not to touch each other's staff. But it's kind of not politics, but that's the way it is. The government, I suppose, was deceived, but it was deceived by the INA, and the government deceived the Croatian public. Now, which is the weight of Brusic, little children know that. Finally, in the INA, the same is deployed to the same function as it will say that the shifts were not, and what is interesting continues to act as chairman of the Supervisory Board at the Rijeka Shipyard "3. May." Now, it would be interesting even to compare his receipts and receipts to the Prime Minister or to the Prime Minister or to the President of the Parliament, but in any case, when public companies are not unusual. Now what we do, and I'm saying they certainly have twice as much as you, Mr. President. Now, okay. You don't mind, neither do I, even though we should be worried about it. Now, what do we do? First, let's not play with vine oil, or blue diesel. This correction of the last thing that happened calmed down the passion, first of all with farmers and peasants. So even a boatman, a fisherman, but there's a situation, I say, still alarming. Here's how the prices were going up to 28.4. Eurosuper 95 old price 8.49 new 8. Super 95, 7.98, that's the same thing. Super 98, eighty-five, that's where it's all the same. Diesel 7.57 kuna, Eurodizel 7.66 kuna, is now 7.17 which is more favourable than the previous addition. As far as excise duties are concerned, they are clearly higher in Italy compared to the opportunities in the Republic of Croatia, bigger in the UK, Germany and I think that's normal. But getting into excise duties isn't the only solution for us, even though I said, this law absolutely needs to be welcomed. And 1 lip is always less and easier to cover the state than the citizens, but the state is in some way also the service of citizens who are always looking for better pensions and lower taxes that we have now discussed, or greater reliefs, and more jobs, and better social protection, etc. So, what do you need to do? In my court, you need to cut the VAT. Finally, this team in power promised, but about that a little later. Croatia has a clear price for fuel and road compensation. In this price, 1 litre, and absolutely should not be taken into madness or touched so as not to slow down economic growth. Not to question the existence of thousands of road workers or, I don't know, highways. Of course the roads would be built for someone to take. Who can be taken? It can be taken by drivers from a litre of gasoline, can be taken from the budget or through international loans. So much so that someone wouldn't think that miles of highway to this country just fell out of the sky. That's the point. True, in Istria roads are built a little differently. There roads are built through concessions, not to say by peeling citizens abnormally expensive tunnels, or bridges. However, when Istria is in line with what's right there, it's not worth the same rules elsewhere, but I'm not going to talk about it. In Eurodizell, Croatia, excise duties are 36.5%. In Slovenia 36.2%, in Austria 38.7%, in Germany as much as 50.3%. So we're here somewhere at the level of these developed Western European countries. What does the 10 limes, for example, mean in the price of gasoline, mean for the Croatian state today? In the budget, that's not what the minister said, it's cca 150 million kuna less. In INA we have opportunities to read it is less than 450 million kuna in their incomes. But what is the solution? I'll say it one more time. That the government is reducing VAT as promised from 22% to 20%. Finally, in the first 3 months, our budget has been revenueing as much as 22.9% more based on VAT than in the same period last year. Which will say that at the annual level, more than 6 to 7 billion kunas of VAT will be incomed from 2005. So in the first three months, somewhere under quotes, we earned or incomed cca billion and 900 million kuna more than in the same period last year. Finally, did we or did you promise to cut the VAT? Yes, it is. Now, if we're doing this or the state's going so well then normally among other solutions should be not selling to the INA. INA doesn't sell. Not on the New York Stock Exchange, not on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, even though the money has our pension funds that don't have anywhere to place it anyway. Okay, and these pension funds are mostly in the hands of foreigners or just foreign banks, but no matter what, it might be better for them to offer these INAs than others, and the best thing would be for the sake of possible corrections in the price of INA not to sell. But on the other hand, take their extra profits. When I talk about extra profit, then I'm not talking about the oil produced and extracted in Croatia, but just getting into extra profit higher and higher monopoly that enables the Croatian state. The IDS has been proposing for 5.6 years for both these governments and the former ones, or rather, that monopolies are taxed with a special 50% monopoly tax. Is the Croatian state protecting their market? I claim so. And should they be paying special attention to that engagement to the Croatian state? I'm saying yes. What country protects the market? Both INAs and HT and TDR and some maybe, I don't know, media, etc. And that should be paid in some way. And why doesn't it seem? Now, that's a special political debate. Finally, if this price of gasoline is growing or oil, however, by Barre, and it will grow, the state will sooner or later come into a situation that will have to catch that extra profit. It will only be possible to make this clear if it controls the INA on one hand or if it introduces these special taxes on the monopoly of these large companies, which are mostly in the hands of private capital today. Cardional error, I agree with the Minister 100%, was the sale of 25% of INA, if I'm not mistaken for $500 million, what was even worse with 25% we sold 50% of the management rights, and the complete error would be if we continue to sell INA even if it was to pay back the debt to the pensioners. So it is better that the pensioners' debt is returned from taxing the extra benefits of our monopolies than by selling these remaining packages, and certainly most significant at this time perhaps Croatian companies. That's the point, not the ban on selling some cadastrian particle to some family that's doing it so they might survive. Let him sell his country, and sell no pardon, and let the citizens go in peace, and let them do their way according to their own will. So the government knows and it intends to put the INA shares on the New York Stock Exchange, but if it's already decided to think about this four, five, four actually pension funds. These four mandatory pension funds showed net assets of $12.7 billion in 31.3.2006. The truth and these funds, I said, are already controlling foreign capital because behind them are the biggest Croatian banks, Privredna banka Zagreb, Zagrebačka banka, Raiffeisen, Erste banka, so it is better to enable these funds to make some additional contributions, although it is understandable that the stock market itself can really say how much it is worth in this global or international market, but in our opinion still, especially not at this time the wildling price is not the time to sell INA. I think that on the INA, or at that price, the government's assessment, the government's weakness, among other things, and on these shifts that I was talking about, Mr Brusic, who was in some way a collateral victim, I would say the discrepancies of Mark's square-Pantovčak. To end what I say one more time. Let this law be passed, absolutely that it should be voted for, even if the time is inexorable and the price of oil, we are all aware before it will rise than it will eventually fall. Therefore, since this cannot be affected from the Croatian position, there are certain limits to the naked survival of our economy, perhaps we should also consider intervention when VAT is passed. Here's one more time to back it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64866	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64867	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. For a long time, the HSP advocates' club has been waiting for such or similar legislation to appear in the parliamentary procedure on the change of the special tax, i.e. excise duties on oil derivatives. Last September, we held our round table on which we pointed to the problem of rising oil prices, i.e. we pointed out the need to change the price of oil derivatives in Croatia. Namely, the price of fuel in Croatia includes, of course, the purchase price of oil, the margins of the processors, possibly and customs in the case of imported fuel, the contribution to the mandatory reserves is included, the special tax is included, so excise duties are included, of course, there is an additional of 1.20 kuna for road and highway operations and all of this is paid in taxes. So we pay taxes on fuel prices. When you take the structure for, say, unleaded motor gasoline, then you see that the purchase price along with the margin and customs is one small part, almost 40% of the fuel price is taxes, or taxes. Something should change. This was the basic retention of our "round table", so it was necessary and we warned the government in September, so it was necessary to change the way in which the price of oil derivatives in Croatia was calculated. The Croatian government, at this clear request of HSP, was shown on our "round table" in September, so as to change the way the price of oil derivatives is calculated, to change the price structure and answer only with a firm protection of the 8 kuna limit per litre of "Eurosuper 95". After that, the whole drama was created and whether it was meant "Eurosuper 95" or "Super 95" and in that general collapse, it was wasted for a full nine months. Slovenia has had floating excise duties for years as soon as it became clear to them that the price of oil has increased, Slovenians opted for swimming excise duties. ... This could have been done a long time ago, but I'm really surprised why it's been waiting this long. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, our club welcomes this move, but we cannot be surprised at what it was not done nine months ago, which, with such ignoring by the government, rejected the request of HSP that we made on our "round table", which is why it was thought that with one fully demographic laureate to keep the price of an oil derivative at 8 kuna, Croatia would actually need a systematically different approach to the structure of the price of oil derivatives in Croatia. No one says the price of oil will fall, although we could hear it from circles close to the Croatian government, that it is some current disturbance, but instead of this systematic approach we have received experiments and allegedly firm promises of keeping prices at 8 kuna per litre without that motor gasoline someone. The second thing that is more than obvious is the fact that VAT is paid of course on the full price structure, as well as on the purchase price of oil. As a result of the rise in oil prices, VAT is increasing. So one is VAT revenue at the purchase price of oil when the barrel was $50 and the other is income when the barrel went up 50% and 74 dollars. This difference is taken for granted despite the fact that it burdens the standard of all our citizens as well as the business of a complete Croatian economy. The finance ministry as well as the Croatian government are calmly over it. The only answer to this is the introduction of floating excise duties, that this increased VAT growth revenue is compensated in some way to avoid further impact on the standard of our citizens, or on the entire Croatian economy. Croatia is in another problem, which is the question of Directive 96 of 2003, which sets out a minimum cost framework for energy products. Therefore, the minimum level of tax on motor fuels should be 302 euros per thousand liters for diesel under that directive of the European Commission and 352 euros for unleaded motor gasoline per thousand litres, which will say that the European Commission is forcing all its members to introduce a minimum excise duty of 2.23 kuna per litre for diesel and 2.65 kuna per litre for unleaded motor gasoline. However, let us be honest and admit that in the Croatian case a excise duty without special taxes on oil products actually also makes a fee for the construction of roads and highways despite the fact that it is already directed immediately at Croatian roads and highways when it is paid. The further problem is that Croatia is unique because in Croatia it pays compensation for the construction of roads and highways even if you are actually registered as a shipping company. So, Croatia is unique on the Mediterranean because our shipowners pay in their fuel price to build roads and highways despite the fact that I am absolutely sure that the roads are run by ferrys or that the roads stop on the county roads. But still, our shipmen are still the only ones on the Mediterranean who pay compensation for building roads and highways. And there's something you need to do. And that's why our counseling club has proposed amendments that will be shared with you. It is therefore that, in this single article, the law in paragraph 3 adds three more items which would specify these several key facts that I have presented. First of all, it should be specified that road and highway construction fees should be included in the cost of excise duty so that tomorrow the European Commission does not pressure us to raise excise duties to the level they predict because then we have actually made zero points with today's move to introduce floating excise duties. This would be far above the minimum threshold on which the European Commission is making such clear provisions. On the other hand, we ask that natural or legal persons registered for carrying out shipping at sea and inland waterways have the right to return excise duties. And thirdly, we don't think that VAT should be charged on excise duties. Therefore, it ceases with a truly unacceptable practice of paying taxes on taxes. These are three of our amendments and their acceptance depends on our adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64868	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64869	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP club is also in agreement with the intention of introducing swimming excise duties. What the SDP Club has even drawn up and the amendment is that the SDP Club disagrees with the Parliament's growing momentum to transfer taxes to the government's authority. And we believe that the level of tax, the level of excise duties, should continue to be determined by a special tax law and established by the Parliament. And given the specificity of the oil derivative, very high prices on the world market that the government is given the opportunity to establish lower rates in order to lead the economic policy of consumer protection and I would say concerns about the competitiveness of the economy. Therefore, the bill before us gives full authority in determining the special tax to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which means they can be even greater tomorrow than the current law. And we believe that this transfer of power to the government really shouldn't be a practice of the Parliament. If that were true, I would also remind myself of the problems we had with the water contribution where we transferred power to the government and the government respected the proposals of certain ministries and after we got public resistance, the dissatisfaction of the public, and I would say again the correction of the government's mistake. Therefore, the SDP proposes that Articles 1 and 2 of Article 5 remain the same, meaning the highest levels are determined and the right is given to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the Government and the obligation to conduct economic policy and I would say taking care of the citizens of consumers, taking care of the economy, and let us also be honest about the negative effects on the economy, especially if it is the cost of living, price increases and obviously that oil is not neutral and does not cause very little consequences. Therefore, we have agreed with this intention and we hope that the Government will accept this suggestion and that we will indeed retain the powers of the Parliament and, on the other hand, give freedom to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to conduct economic policy. But I would return to the beginning about the events surrounding the prices of oil derivatives in the Republic of Croatia. I must say that as an economist and parliamentary representative, I was very difficult to accept the messages of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who sent messages to protect the citizens of Croatia "I have agreed with the INA," "I have agreed with Mr Dragicevic," "I have agreed with the INA administration." Therefore, inadmissible terms for the innate market, unacceptable behaviour where it is trying to show that economic policy-making arrangements are the basis. That arrangements are the basis for pricing. It wasn't acceptable. If it could be different, this bill is exactly what it shows. That's exactly what we see in some way that simply the government has denied itself. And of course how the deal ends? Well, these are events from 15 days ago where simply part of the deal is unrespectable, part of the deal is played. We don't really know who's responsible for the deal. Unfortunately, Croatian citizens also witnessed irresponsible behaviour because simply someone from the INA claimed: "We have solved all your problems. We solved them because we're going to keep the fuel price, the fuel you spend the most. And that was false. It was a lie. So as we see agreements in the economy especially if we are talking about the market economy is not welcome and I am glad that the Government of the Republic of Croatia understands its mistakes and has come with this bill before the Croatian Parliament. Let's also be realistic so let's say that these agreements protected the interests of Croatian citizens? It is evident that in one part of those agreements, direct consumers who used certain fuels were protected and respected during a certain period of time. Certain consumers. But all of us who are also responsible for economic policy know that what affects citizens' living standards is the cost of breathing fuel because it's the fuel most involved in consumption when we talk about transport costs. Therefore, the battle for price control, for keeping prices in front of acceptable low inflation frameworks simply could not be implemented given that the agreement applied to gasoline rather than to diesel. And that's the part where we simply had damage to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy but also slightly higher cost of living, and that was again essentially the problem of the citizens of Croatia who did not directly spend gasoline, but depended heavily on transport costs, on every price of the food product. Was there room for any tax changes or no space? What we in the SDP want very clearly to say: there was space. Why was there room? For reasons other than citizens who have lost to the rise in oil and oil prices in Croatia, there are entities who earn more revenue. One of them is INA. INA has one-off profits on the rise in oil prices. Why? Well, because we're lucky as Croatia's domestic oil. So from the price calculation that I would say was always calculated around $25 to $27 is now valorized to over $70 per barrel. So INA had extra income. It has further achieved economic benefits, and when we think about how to preserve the standard of living of citizens, we had room for a competitive battle of Croatia's economy in the INA. And what my fellow MPs have already said is also additionally the State budget has made higher revenues since VAT is counting on increased prices. Both the refinery and I would say the whole basics, and that was the reason why, because of the increased revenue in the budget, we also find calculations on how to lead the policy through taxes, while protecting the standard of citizens and the competitive ability of the Croatian economy. And that's why our opinion that the government's tax policy could have had an impact. No deals. Tax policy. And that this tax policy has no limits whatsoever. Really. Neither in contracts with MOL nor in relations with European regulations. It's all possible. It is the right choice of government and the possibility to propose itself to the Croatian Parliament. And we see it today. According to whether extra profits will be introduced, I apologize for the INA's extra profit tax, it is again the right of the Croatian government. There's room, there's legal possibilities. There's no limit. Whether or not it will be used by the government is their right. But obviously, thanks to the fact that we have domestic oil, we have Croatian oil these areas in economic policy-making through the price of derivatives are indeed far higher in Croatia than if we look at our neighbours in Slovenia or some other country that do not have domestic oil. And that's why the government will use that possibility to show it through its economic policy. And that is why I think it is very important that a particular strategy be drawn up by the Croatian Government with estimates of the trend of oil prices on the world market and that, possibly through these assessments, we know very well how much the burden of possible new price hikes on the INA, on the State budget, on the citizens of Croatia and the rest of the economy will be allocated. And that's what we really need to get. We, as the Croatian Parliament, expect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will offer this to us, and precisely so that we can understand the government's policy tomorrow in the management of floating or swimming excise duties related to oil derivatives. I believe, and we don't want as a SDP to comment much on the government's error in the agreed economy with the INA administration. We believe it won't happen again. What we also want is to insist not to defend by certain ministers a failed move, persistently. And like that again. As in the case of "Liburnia" until the last hour, the responsible person in the government defended agreements with INA, so that the government and the prime minister of the second day simply confirm that it is a practice that is abandoned and that, I would say and think of the prime minister, condemn the responsible persons who play the agreements. This is what is the problem then of policy transparency in front of citizens who have paid for misunderstandings and try not to simply accept messages that can be solved in another way. And that's why I think this proposal from the government is exactly the best proof of how to view a change in a failed policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64870	Thank you. The HSLS Club, a respected representative of Zlatko Kramarić, and before that we will give to Finance Minister Ivan Šuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let me just have a few observations on the presentation of the representatives of the SDP club. Is it irresponsible and missed government policy if it managed to keep the price of fuel to 8 kuna despite the increase? Is there anything else going to happen if an extra profit tax is introduced and the price of oil derivatives is not protected? The second thing, isn't the inflation that last year 3.3% of the best shows how much the rise in oil derivatives prices has affected prices? And second old, how many prices of transportation services in the Republic of Croatia have increased? But there's something else. INA is no longer a monopolist on the market, and it may not be a good thing we keep looking through the perception of fuel prices through the INA. Today, around 30.35% of the market in Croatia is held by other companies that can drive free fuel from the world market. And therefore, if they're going to introduce a cheaper Eurodizel, Eurosuper and sell it at their pumps cheaper all the customers will go shopping with them, no one's going to buy at INA pumps. But very interesting that these same participants, so to speak in the oil products market in the Republic of Croatia, are publicly saying that the price of Eurosuper of 8 kuna is something that is unsustainable in terms of the prices at which they purchase this, and that same fuel, that same energy on the European and world markets. And so if others have such a price, I don't see at what logic INA could have a lower price. It's also that big fan about the VAT increase. You well know that VAT among all those who deal with some kind of economic activity is neutral, they do pay it when buying, but in the first subsequent accounting period it returns it and it is practically neutral at the price of fuel. It participates in the price of products or services that these companies sell. So, if we're talking about a VAT increase on, and that's what, of course, it would be stupid to argue because it's a notorious fact that if the fuel price rises on an increased basis, it increases VAT and that it has an increased income. But I'm saying, when we talk about it, then we have to analytically factor out that it doesn't apply to that part of the elevator, to that part of the engine gas sold to companies that have the right to return to VAT. So this could be about some 200-thins, 300 million kunas tops. But at the same time, looking at all the movements. And what happened the last time around an oil price increase, that price lasted 24 hours. And there was no agreed economy. So we in the government are presented that 90% of the vehicles, I said it eventually and publicly, said the prime minister, 905 vehicles in Croatia can use that fuel. That's what's said. At the moment it turned out not to be true, the responsible were removed and the government reacted as it reacted. So, since all of us, that we could keep the $75 prices practically under control that it does not go beyond some amounts that could violate both the standard of Croatian citizens and the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Obviously, when you get into a situation where certain things happen to you, markets that have a significant impact on a small economy such as Croatia, you need to reach out to measures where you can spotly react without it happening. And as long as the price of oil on the world market didn't reach $75 per barrel, there was no need for such a measure. Now that the price of fresh oil is on the world market, oil raw materials on the world market do not need to be reacted again. But you don't know what's gonna happen in two weeks, what's gonna happen in three weeks. We must no longer allow that if intervention can be carried out based on excise reductions, etc. that there is a shock, both for the economy and for Croatian citizens. That's why this is the bill. Therefore, the proposal for a Regulation proposing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, in such a case, reduce excise duties beyond this standard procedure in the Croatian Parliament. And that's after all something that all clubs agree with more or less. We can talk in one way or another that could have happened like this, that could have happened anyway. Today's proposals are coming that maybe excise duties shouldn't be the basis for VAT calculations. But they shouldn't have been seven years ago, they shouldn't have been three years ago. And we should also look at how they have countries in the European Union. They all have a unique basis for calculating VAT. And ultimately VAT is a universal tax which regardless of the rate but the accounting technique is the same in all countries. The question is whether you need to get to the boaters, or take the price of road charges. But, gentlemen, darlings, you have in the European Union's strategy how much excise duty should be between 2006 and 2010. And it is a representative of Tadic not 2 kunas and 40, but 3 kunas and 50. And that's why this year, if you remember that I talked about it and when we talked about, when I explained the draft budget, we included income from kuna and 20 containing road compensation, Croatian highway, Croatian road to the Treasury. Well, we can say hello gentlemen, it's the State Treasury's income and it's excise duties. The fact that we re-designed them to build highways and roads, that's our thing. But they are in the Treasury and they are now treated as a excise duty in Croatia in all presentations and presentations of the revenues of the state budget, and in Croatia all the excise duty on motor gasoline is kuna and 90 plus kuna and 20, meaning 3 kuna and 10. We are within the limits of the European Union, at the level of excise duties we are still among the countries with the lowest excise duties. However, one elemental question is raised. We can intervene with reduced excise duty to a certain limit. By the end of the year, about 150 million kuna is lost in the budget, and we can make up for it with increased VAT-based revenues. But as we are in power today, so you were two years ago, the question arises what when you reach the border when you have to think about what will happen to the right-hand side of the budget, i.e. with the expenditure side of the budget. Whom to cut costs to protect...... Extra tax, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We can talk about extra tax. But tell me, which government, which owner, three months before the stock market, is going to introduce an extra tax? What kind of message is that to investors? Don't invest in Croatia. Don't invest in INA shares because the government is going to cut your INA income by some extra taxes or something. So this is something that, given the moment in which the state is located and given the privatisation process of INA, is something that is simply impossible to introduce. The second thing, we were talking about INA's extra profit, that for three years an agreement was signed that it wouldn't pay off INA's profits at the sale of INA. Two years of these gains were used to cover the losses of the previous year. Only the 2005 profit will be used as part of the INA's modernisation and technological progress. So it's the same fact that we can't escape, because we know how much INA has losses until the moment it moved to market price formation, until it was given the opportunity to market prices. So we can't forget it or skip it. And also whenever certain decisions are made then the context of time and the environment in which these decisions have been made should be seen. Because when you look at it from a time distance of two, three years it looks different. So today, maybe when someone is looking at and talking about extra profits for three or four years, and they don't know that INA is currently preparing to include the APO and that it's very important to us what price they're going to achieve, because with a negative message to investors, we can lose far more to 15% of the INA sales than we're going to earn with extra tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64872	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, first respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64873	I'm correcting an incorrect statement by the minister saying that by introducing a tax extra, the extra profit tax is essentially just trying to take the INA and not the other importers. Tax on extra profit of INA is budget income. The revenue of the budget that can be achieved if it has to be intervened with the total cost reduction of all other suppliers of the derivatives, whether producers or importers are. This is therefore a government policy which addresses the problem of the state budget with its balances between excise duty levels and the extra profit tax, and does not create any imbalance between the INA and the importers. Basicly, Croatian oil is an opportunity for the Croatian government if it has problems with the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64874	Thank you. And a second correction, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64875	Dear Minister, I have warned here that the problem puts before Croatia this directive of the European Commission, and it would really be good if from now on, we are constantly treating the fees for... roads and highways as part of the excise duty, so it would not happen to us that tomorrow the European Union imposes far more excise duties on us than the ones you are planning with this... to achieve excise duties. [[You don't understand.]] But regardless of all this together in Italy, boaters and fishermen pay 55 euros per litre of diesel and all the rest of the euro and 55. So Italy also encourages its boaters. We like to boast as a country of maritime orientation... Competition in the Mediterranean. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64876	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić, on behalf of the HSLS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64877	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that we are facing a new and positive novelty in the work of our government, which is that it really reacts to the problem that arises and in some way I can understand and understand fellow Shukra, Minister Shuker when he talks about this normal political alibi language, but it shows exactly that this rapid reaction is something that is humanly wrong, that in some communication between the administration of INA and the Government there may have been these forests in communication that have led to exactly one situation that is still so media and heated and reacted with this proposal for the Law amending the Law on Special Taxes on Oil Products. And we'll welcome the management on behalf of the club I welcome this move, because in some ways it shows that sensitivity and social, because obviously INA is in some way our destiny. I think my colleague Cain was already talking about some of the mistakes that have been made in the past. Of course there weren't many of them throughout history, I think as far as I remember, actually with INA there until the '70s there's always quite a dramatic story. The story of INA is in a certain way and the story of Croatia. Number one was the power regime, and the other was the INA regime and that the federal government and the policy at the time had a very specific relationship to INA. Here is a recent interview by Mr. Klekovic in "The Morning List" where he tried to explain just one of the problems that INA was going through and it was clear that it was also very important in politics to destabilize INA, I mean that it destabilized Croatia's economy. Now that things have changed since the 1990s, thank God very much and the situation is different and it seems that our... He was just talking about inauguration, so... the inauguration was written exactly by INA, so plus this, and that in many prime ministers and people who came to the executive power of Croatia in some way were related to the INA and it showed that this, that specific weight of this economic entity, we must certainly have all of us in mind. [[You don't understand.]] The last mistake in the law seemed to me there in July 2003. Here I can go with one distance, it won't help me much, admit it, I've been silent even though I've hardly agreed to that fact. But that very same day was also a fellow Banac elected minister and then every critical speech of the fact that we sell 25% of the INA to MOL, and I remember when I'm like this, since Hungary is not too far from Osijek that there in the '80s MOL was this one, I don't want to offend her, but a rural station relative to INA. And we've come obviously from some, I don't mean any pleasant reason in the situation that one, or one possible economic player, regional player, actually we're selling something that, something that I don't think is al money. But that's what happened. Now it's a big question whether this is a second move, whether it's a good move, but obviously it's also a pain, that it's either a pain or some of the problems are offering us to move into the second phase of selling these 15% of our family silver. They say it's not good to sell family silver or when it's sold to tell yet a certain situation to an economic, once-in-a-lifetime environment that I say is not positive. Normally, we as liberals are not for the agreed economy. It's something that's past all these logics, but it seems to me that some of the solutions that are offered here are said to be just one of those, those good sides is the fact that we have our own domestic oil and then there's a certain space. But I'm saying, I'm not sure how that would react because INA isn't the monopolies that it was until recently, but as far as you said, 35% of the markets that don't cover INA, so let's say that this Competition Agency would react at all if, I don't know, the government started acting on one of these, it seems like a pretty Columbus egg to me as if we've discovered, but it doesn't seem as simple to me that way to solve these extra-profit tax problems. But what seems to us at the moment, it has been recognised in some way, whether it is a mistake, a misunderstanding, or this one, but it has also proved to be a very quick response to this social sensitivity. And hopefully, exactly what on the one hand, we can't influence, which is exactly the trend in the price of barrels. Until recently, it seems to me that exactly the whole situation in the Russian Federation has been resolved precisely that it has suddenly jumped, the price of oil from 15, 16 dollars per barrel to one 27, 28, so it actually gave Putin this power. And now imagine this $75 per barrel and how everything in this country is the size of Croatia and economic forces such as Croatia with it all. It's exactly the ones we can't influence, but now within this price structure, how much can the state really show its sensitivity. And to show that it can make certain moves that will help what would certainly dramatically increase, a dramatic increase in prices would lead to. And then it's just, now take every city traffic, actually every food item and actually there's no product that couldn't calculate exactly the fact that there's been a dramatic purchase of oil. Then the state must indeed prove to be a good master and I hope that this and this, that this law is on to it. And now for the end I only have, I say we will support this bill, but we have two questions or two remarks. How will the State cover the funds to be denied by the implementation of this Decision? And how the government will, with the existing, relatively ineffective State Inspectorate and the Financial Police, monitor and prevent malfeasance to the harm of the state when changing excise duties, respectively... the excise duty on the prices of goods held in retail and wholesale supplies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, that's what we're interested in as a club, and this is what we're giving support to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64878	Thank you. Croatian Representatives' Club, respected representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64879	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a bill that is no surprise because over the past period we have witnessed problems that have arisen by increasing the price of crude oil and by building prices that have in some way threatened the normal functioning of the economy and all the other segments that are so fatefully related to that energy. It was nice and almost all the kickings we accepted the formula by which a new price was calculated daily in retail by collecting crude oil, and it was the price of gas at the gas station. At the price there was a special tax, excise duties, compensation for the construction of highways, and, of course, the value added tax, and everyone was satisfied. Everywhere there was income more, there was extra profit everywhere for both the state and the oil industry and for all those who were involved in the process, but this came to me for a story about that jackass who tried to get rid of the food so he could serve it well, and everything went great, every day there was less and less cost until finally the donkey died. And so unfortunately it was with this problem. It could be suspected that this formula and that it will not be able to survive for long, given all the assessments that have said that the policy of the price of raw materials and oil is ruthlessly climbing towards unsuspecting heights and that it is impossible to expect it to stop at one reasonable level. All the measures at the disposal of the Government were to try to amortise those unpleasant resulting from such unpredictable, sudden purchases of crude oil. Perhaps no product as an oil energy is fatally connected to every product we have, for every service we have, and of course any increase can not go all the way. It causes contrasting effects, reactions, weaker consumption, inability for citizens to use energy to the extent that they need it and certainly need to react in one way or another. We at HSS accept the model of floating excise duties because it is one way that the state certainly can and must react. If, for all these reasons, more funds have been raised, if it is an oil company, regardless of the problems, whether it would be entirely in line to keep the extra profits made on domestic crude oil, whether it is all in line and whether it is possible to do all of this, but it should certainly be considered in what way to keep the price at least under the control to which it is best possible. Of course it's always a question, and who will bear the lack of income planned in this way? Is it possible that this measure that we have just established on the removal of income tax incentives, on development, on employment and on science is one of the measures that it will receive, i.e. in the state budget, that some of the funds it had to allocate, not isolated, but isolated in another way, perhaps, but I don't think it's a good way if it's precisely for that reason or for any other reason, because these are precisely activities that we can't spare and which we can't deny the support that is necessary until we have to do so or until we find the right substitutes to make up for it in the right way? Oil and all sales-related revenues must also have their upper limit. The government said 8 kuna. I agree. I agree, at this point we have to defend it because it's really very uncertain what would happen if the price building continued in this way that it has been so far. I was very unhappy, and I must probably remind all of you when they showed up there in the pre-election time in 2003 they cried about the price of oil and the price of gasoline. It was a very distasteful joke and a propaganda message that hurt me as a man and all those who participated in any serious business related to energy, the state position, the political assessment of price building and tax policy, because at that moment it was known that we had decided to finance a very expensive highway project and that we had to additionally burden the price of gasoline and raise it to the extent that it was at that moment, but unfortunately I wasn't wrong to go back to those who had played in this way in the worst possible way that we all had to together, and especially the government had just responded to these problems which had been mocked at that moment, which happened beyond our will and past the will of the Government of Croatia and beyond all of us that we had to think very seriously about how to keep the energy and particularly oil products under control in terms of the maximum price in the sale. It's the easiest thing to do at the pump station to report and mark the price of 8 and a half, 9 and a half, 10 and a half, 11 kuna, don't give God, but such consequences will have long-term moves, I can't even see. Therefore, at this point, I am pleased that the government has also accepted a way to address this problem, although it would support the SDP proposal, which I think would be better to have one law on special taxes on oil derivatives, and that the Government has only limited possibilities for intervention, not that the government's full authority remains that value added tax, i.e. a excise tax which can be increased in the future and increased if, in the event or God forbid, there is a reduction in the price of crude oil. I think it should still be solved the way SDP proposed. I also agree that I am one of those who advocates and the model that Mr. Tadic spoke of is unfairly burdened all those who use oil as fuel at sea, and pay a price of 1.2 kuna for highways, and the fact that they do not use this means for their navigation. So this is a good move, which is expected, and unfortunately I don't believe that it can ultimately solve a problem that will certainly be even more future, but we have to come up with and we have to be prepared to fight all those challenges that will arise if the price of oil continues to grow ruthlessly. In this sense, it will probably need to find all other measures because, as they say, the oil company in the hands of the state, it is in the hands of either private capital or the largest part, or the part that is manageable, and there are other oil companies besides the INA that are so much present on our market and I think that it should be very, very serious and prepared and come up with all those opportunities that will happen to us and that we must have good answers so that it is not really late because the effects of the wrong moves can be fatal for both the economy and the citizens and for the overall functioning of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64880	Thank you. 17 and 53 are out of time for individual debates on this agenda point. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64881	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. It seems to me that this law is the result of not only the trend of the price of crude oil on the world market, but rather the result of the shooting of the relationship between let me put it this way... capital on behalf of the Government which manages the INA administration and the Supervisory Board, part of the capital belonging to the majority, i.e. the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, we have had problems with the price on the domestic market so far, but it has managed to reach an agreement between the Government and the INA, and it could be said that, in fact, there has been some kind of a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. To justify. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or better yet, in their position they put a very serious pressure on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a new agreement or review the deal of maintaining the price of oil below 8 kuna for "Super 95" the practical risk of the reduction of that price shared with the Government and in such a situation, it has also come about that it is practically going to reduce excise duties on crude oil and oil derivatives and now the government has entered a second trap. In fact, this trap is not only an economic and market issue but also a legal issue and it happens that the Government opposes lex specialis or a special law on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is given the power to regulate certain issues from its part-round and it explicitly says in Article 1: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is empowered to regulate the issues of the current economic policy in the part of the Croatian Parliament," I quote, "except for changes in the state budget and regulation of taxes and those issues which are being" etc. Therefore, the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot prescribe taxes... the tax type, and in such a situation, is, in fact, the issue of the constitutionality of Article 1 of the proposal to amend and supplement the law referred to in paragraph 3, or even more precisely how to come out and achieve the objective necessary for the sake of social and state interest at the same time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's obvious that both INA and everyone else can't actually accept the reduction of one... the government's decision to price oil and at the same time have no guarantee that it will be transferred or this reduction of the price that the government will bear in proportion through the reduction of budget revenues through specific excise duties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we at the Club of Representatives of the SDP have offered some kind of solution which, until the end, is not clear from the constitutional and legal aspect but is easier than this is a solution offered in law, which is that the Government can reduce the price by regulations, but it cannot make regulations as it says here at the level of a special tax on oil derivatives. Why? Because it should actually be taken into account when these regulations and by what criteria the Government can adopt. The government wrote that in an explanation. In an explanation, I will quote the last paragraph of Article 1 where it is said: "These amendments are proposed so that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can intervene to protect the standards of Croatian citizens", the first case. Another case "decreases the burden of the economy and preserves its competitiveness", which is the third case, "in line with the possibilities". But entry costs or part of the economy are also part of the oil industry. What is its competitiveness if it cannot monitor world prices or if the value of their goods and their services or their products is underestimated. In such a situation, it is possible to happen exactly what counterpart Linic said on behalf of our club that the regulation could result in exceptional situations where excise duties can be raised and not just reduced. And that is why we feel it is necessary to accept the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives. That's the first one. Secondly, here we need to work on another important issue, and this is a question of economic viability, in fact, through the economic price of protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia in relation to our natural wealth, our crude oil that is being attracted to us and the ones we import. Here you should ask a question actually how to protect economic value through so-called. the natural rent that INA's making and we haven't touched it at all. And I think that part should be extra. So it's not enough here to discuss that mining rental INA pays on oil anymore. Here the question arises in new circumstances what does this rent really mean to this natural wealth that INA achieves and to whom it should belong. Whether or not INA can be participated in it, and that is the issue of taxation of extra profits obtained from the title of the natural location, or the natural rent that is made through this oil. We believe that in the next period it will take a very serious account to be taken for a pragmatic reason. It is not expected at all that the price of oil, crude oil on the world market will fall. It's not to be expected that she'll stay at this level for a long time at which she is now. Unfortunately, since it is a resource, a natural resource, a natural wealth that is exhausting, which is becoming smaller and smaller, it will grow and, among other things, because of the natural impairment of the possibility of exploitation, for the fact that it becomes a strategic raw material used in competition, taking a better position on the world market for both its products and its energies and of course and even as a strategic raw material in the calculation of political ties. And that's why we wanted to, we didn't want to have to worry about how to protect this part. We will talk more about this in the Oil Market Act, but it should be kept in mind that it is not enough to discuss it only through the Oil Market Act but also oil as a matter of strategic importance, and therefore it would be very important to accept the amendment of the SDP Representatives' Club at this stage as well as to discuss with the following law how it might extend the problem of the oil market not only from the aspect of the regular supply of the market, the regular reserve that is made through imports and purchases of oil on the world market and oil derivatives, but also through the strategic protection of its own raw materials in the country's womb, in this. We have not covered this issue either by this law or by the Market Act and we have to take account of this and in this context it is very important to actually discuss whether the introduction of a special tax on extra profit or extra profit that is achieved on the monopoly over economic wealth which should also be used for the purpose of ensuring the reserve of strategic raw materials that is necessary both as raw materials and as energy in the economy of our country and our people. Here, I wanted to point out these few things, not just because they might be against this law at this stage. This law should be adopted, we should see all together how to fix it or improve it to be as good as possible and as efficient as possible, as possible, as well as for reasons to point out other things that we will discuss in the next law, and if, as now, quite certainly in the near future, because simply such a situation as it is on the world market and in world oil relations will force us to such a situation, as well as on energy in the broader sense of those words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64882	Thank you very much. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64883	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When it comes to the price of gasoline in Croatia, then it can be spoken of discreetly and indiscriminately. It can be spoken politically, can be spoken politically. And you see Minister Shuker, when it is justified to prove that abolishing the benefits of development, science and employment while not introducing incentives to do so poses an obstacle to the development of the Republic of Croatia, then it is not politics but rather a reasoned debate. But when the price of gasoline is published a plaque with Pinocchio and the price of gasoline is then 4 kunas and 40 limes, then it's politics. The former government introduced a excise charge of 60 limes per litre of gasoline and built highways. You're still collecting that excise charge but you haven't built so many miles of highways or built by the end of the term. No one's gonna show you a long nose because a liter of gasoline went to 8 kuna. You showed your long nose with that poster yourself. How do you form the price of gasoline? The basis is therefore the price in dollars per barrel, so the excise charge goes to the total amount, to the total amount. And there's that space where the state, the state actually profited from the price of gasoline. Where did the gasoline come from in Croatia? Where did the oil come from? Two sources. Oil is bought on the world market and oil is drawn up as a Croatian ore treasure. Some fields have been reactivated. Why? Well, that's because the price of oil has gone up. Explosion in the Moldovans costs $20 a barrel. That's the price of exploitation. And as soon as the oil crosses $20 a barrel of oil, it's worth a lot of money to draw from Molva. INA is privatised in part, but the oil fields in Croatia are not privatised. They are the property of the Republic of Croatia. They are the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And how do you form the price? At the cost of barrels in the Mediterranean. So is that the oil we take out in the Moldovas? Are we paying it at the prices of barrels in the Mediterranean? No, I don't. It is the property of Croatian citizens. It's not INA property. It's not the property of this government. It's an ore treasure. It belongs to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Well, this oil that's being extracted from the Croatian country sells to citizens as if it's being bought in the Mediterranean, and that oil is Minister Shuker if I don't cheat about 25% of what's going on through INA. Now how can we help in this, in these conditions of constant oil price growth on the world market? We said we wouldn't show a long nose to this government because this government isn't to blame for the price of oil growing. Just like she didn't go through with it. But my God, everyone's joking on their own level. He can't exceed his level, that's clear. One way to help each other is the one proposed by the government, a floating excise charge. It's definitely a good way to do it. Even if the SDP amendment is adopted, it will be even better. But do we have other ways to help each other? This government has given up the Adria Company project. And we all know what the policy of forming the price of energy in Russia is. Russia doesn't sell its energy to everyone at the same price. She has strategic friends and has no strategic friends. And he says, "For you, this is the price, and for you is the second." Russia has the oil it wants to carry out and that's on the Mediterranean. Croatia has pipes. And the more logical it is then a strategic partnership is being created, and I have oil, and you have pipes. And then, along with the project, Adria can negotiate the price of Croatia, the price of Russian oil for the Croatian market. Why exactly is Russia so interested in being an export port in Croatia? Well, because I can come up with a 500 thousand-ton tanker. I can't go to the Black Sea. I can't. I can only come from 70 thousand tons. So it's got to go through more, so it's not worth all that money to pay off in the Omistry. But this government stopped those talks, broke up the relationship with Russia. Neither will Putin come here, nor will he invite any of you there to Russia. Why? Because you stopped that project. And look at Minister Shucker's trade with Russia. How she fell. She's gone. Croatia no longer exports anything there. This is the policy of this government in general and as regards the policy of the price of gasoline or oil price policy. That's where you did one incredible damage, incredible damage. I don't know if it's, I don't know if it's repairable. I don't know if the other government will have, the new government that comes behind you will have a chance to rebuild the project of Adria and thus save this bad, crisis situation regarding energy and oil in Croatia. Is there anything else we can do to help? Well, we can help ourselves say that we did a refinery upgrade, but they didn't, we didn't. We should have. They were ex-government projects. The funds were provided for it, but they weren't made. It's not made. Well, when it's not made, then the finished derivatives have to be imported. And that's more expensive, so it costs the state more. But what wonders is that no modernization has been made when the government is just under the law that we discussed before, when the government won't release the money for development, it won't. It's not for education, it's not and it's not for employment. It's the politics of this government. Croatia must be underdeveloped, uneducated and unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64884	Correction of the incorrect quote by the esteemed colleague Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Stazic, said irreparable damage was done after Croatia exited the Adria Society project. You see, fellow Stazic is not, that's not true. On the contrary. The damage is irreparable. If we had entered this project, the question is, what would happen to the Adriatic, with pollution possible and everything else. And the other thing is you and your SDP colleagues agree specifically with Mr. Komadin, which is the interest of the SDP? Is it about being a company of Adria or not? So then agree within you what SDP represents? Because this is how it turns out that you represent the company Adria and Mr. Komadina doesn't want the company Adria. So already take some concrete position where you'll all take a stand so that you know exactly what SDP represents at national level? This is how you lead your voters astray and everyone else who tries to hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64886	Replica, a respected colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64887	You tell your colleague Stazić about Pinocchio that everyone is joking, that is to say, using things like that at their own level. I'd stand here a little bit in the defense of the government, today, then the opposition used by Pinocchio, but not the original one, but it's not their original. 'Cause a little bit of the original got thrown out by the government. In fact, Pinocchio appeared in political life under Berlusconi's patronage. And that's one copy of Berlusconi's political life ahead of the election and there. But we saw how that pattern ended and where it turned. And as for the company "Adria", so I think you've been particularly clear, but maybe here's a chance that if you want to answer me and replicate about Pinocchio and the company "Adria", you can explain the situation a little bit, if it's not clear to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64888	A colleague of Antičević Marinović, and stories about "Adrija" would pose an ecological danger and would be inexplicable damage to Croatia and would bring only $80 million a year, only 80 million a year. So much, more than that would only be made on the cuttings, only on the tankers' cuts. And I'm hoping that pipe, and it's not five-centimetres fine. Because only if it has a five-centimeter fi could it earn so little. And as for Berlusconia, listen. As the example ends, so will those who follow him.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64889	We're continuing an individual debate. There's a respected colleague named Vesna Skara Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's next, dear colleague Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. No, somebody else will think there's a Geppetto here. There is a respected colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64890	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Says Mr. Minister, explaining on behalf of the government this bill and calling out on several occasions to forget this, let's forget it, let's forget it. New conditions have arisen. You spoke of oblivion several times, Mr. Minister. I know you'd be happy to forget now. But also by accepting and approving this bill, of course with the amendment of the SDP Club which I think improves this bill. I don't see any reason why you would say no, although you often, or the government, often refuses something without explaining it. Well, maybe it wouldn't be a precedent, but I believe you won't do it this time. However, with regard to this oblivion, I would like to invite you here, Mr. Minister, to speak here on behalf of the Government, and all of us, to remember many things. So let us also remember this famous Pinocchio who you are as an opposition, although you have never had the courage to sign, as you do now and with greetings from Savudrija at the same time as you open up already closed property and property fees issues. So, find and look for some of your alibis with postcards from Savudria. And the author is the same as the creator of Pinocchio. You never signed and you never denied that it was the HDZ posters you were making fun of at the time, and the people were alerting themselves to such irresponsible authority. When it was gasoline, when oil derivatives were 4.65 and they arrived at the time of 5.60 lips. That's when Pinocchio came into existence. And then you mocked the then government, as incompetent, as cheating. And please, how long should that nose of Pinocchio be now? That nose of Pinocchio should be to Tokyo. But there's no poster on which that nose can fit. You see, ma'am, how Pinocchio came into existence when we openly said that we wanted an economic formula to calculate the price of oil. At that moment when we told the citizens that excise duties would be installed... Where they go and what they go for. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] They were specifically embedded in the highway and the citizen knows where that money went. Also, the government, with this particular economic and citizens-acceptable bill, has very transparently preserved the INA, paid back the enormous debts of INA, but there has been error. Very effective. But, you see, it's been a while, and then this example of yours is here again, I'm mentioning that you copied, so it's not Pinocchio's original creation, but also from the Italian political scene you took off that poster, it was Berlusconi's poster. And then Berlusconi and Pinocchio, a cute puppet, now he has grown his nose far more than Geppetto has ever programmed. At the time of the 11th month, that is, after the election coming here for the first session of the Parliament as an opposition representative in my vehicle, which is also now 270 kuna. Now coming to this session on Wednesday, 475 kuna. But it's the same, sir, it's not funny, that you're laughing now because there's no cameras, so now you're laughing, now you're laughing at people, yes. Because it's not mine, because it's not just my situation, it's everyone else's situation. But not only these prices, they've collected prices and something that in the world, Europe is getting fucked, products, rising prices. And continuously from day to day, that's what unions keep warning you. But let's get back to the subject. Certainly, there have been changed circumstances and it would be completely irresponsible to deny it, but then the price determined exactly the price of barrels on the European, or global market. It's true, now it's collected. Why is this bill now? He's already a little late, but let's just let it go, maybe the only characteristic of a little good stuff that always comes with a delay, so let's let it go now. However, the agreements the government had with INA, which they resulted in, questionable quality because it does not invest in refineries. There is doubt, but not only does it suspect that they were real marks on oil derivatives under what was sold under it. That doubt is not without foundation speak and numerous failures, and I am one of them, went the catalyst, despite buying constantly on the INA pumps, supers, the Euro supers in 98, and what's sold under it? But you see as an answer is a threat to INA, their man in charge, and that journalist who, on one show, dared to say that INA is selling garbage, probably alluded to not selling the content under the name and announcing the lawsuit to a journalist. And I am from this place announcing and calling on the citizens to sue the INA precisely because if these things happen to them because the direct causal link of car malfunctions is precisely because of that and those products that are sold on the INA pumps. It doesn't happen to people who buy oil derivatives on gas pumps. So things are clear. But what's been going on maybe this is the instructions that it's not happening anymore, that it's being controlled. But certainly the government remains one broad instrument, not a deal with the INA leaders. She must lead her policies and her instrumentaries to those at her disposal, just to protect her because it is a duty to protect the citizens and even when she has not promised them, even when she has not mocked this subject of ex-government. It is, in the very sense of the government's existence, obliged to do so. It would be hard to remember what was said by the most responsible people in these moments, starting with the prime minister, you're riding a bike, etc. etc. So I believe that there is no reason for the government not to accept this amendment to the SDP club because in some way it does not amnesty and transfer responsibility from the government but rather makes one thing more transparent than it has ever been so far that it is determined by the Parliament, and only in exceptional situations, so alarming when it is necessary to act quickly, is it promptly to give such one authority to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64891	Please, nice. Dear colleague Slavko Linic has his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just two things, because there were a lot of polemic tones between me and the minister about the extra profit tax and I want to point out the following. The government of the Republic of Croatia is the one who runs economic policy, it is its right to really determine whether to introduce a tax, whether to get more through tax, whether to get more through market shares transactions, is its ability to assess which policy they will choose, and here I agree with the minister, that no one wants to challenge, it is indeed the right of the Government. But it is also the government's responsibility to assess whether the price of oil derivatives is so high that it threatens the standard of citizens, the economic competitiveness of the Croatian economy, and that is why it must reduce excise duties. Why? So because when we look at the price structure of eight kunas roughly in the euro super, 3.4 is a refinery price, which means the price is about 43%. 43%, everything else is an upgrade, a upgrade which means VAT, means excise duties, road charges. And if such a structure is, the Croatian government must assess whether its share in the total retail price will decrease or not, and we are aware that this means a certain problem for the Croatian budget, there is no doubt, but at that moment for the Croatian government there is a certain term because of domestic oil and if it calculates that it will not presently show that interest because it estimates that it will gain more from the stock transaction, then it is also the government's obligation to assess that part of that transaction must go into the protection of standards and that if it reduces the excise tax inflow by shares it will again comment on I would say some minuses per excise duty in the state budget. So what none of the SDP wants to personally suggest or impose on the Government of the Republic of Croatia which methodology, which the policy will choose, but what we clearly want to say from the SDP is that the Government is responsible for its excise duty policies, and given the domestic oil that I would say problem in the budget, any problems in the budget can be more responsible for citizens' living standards, according to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. It can, because a million tons of oil currently produced by INA, a million and a half tons of supplies that are evident if more seriously entered into exploitation, not supplies, a million and a half could be produced in Croatia if they are seriously accessed by drills that are toasted and closed. At this point, we need to understand that this is some kind of reserve of the Croatian government, some kind of reserve for economic policy-making. And that's what we don't want to suggest or lead at all. You know who's running politics. But we estimate that this policy through excise duties cannot have a negative effect on the state budget because there are simply other methods to compensate for lost money or minor inflows in the state budget. So we want to make that very clear. The same is very clear why only according to INA? Well, only because INA has domestic oil. We know what these are essentially excise duties. They apply to all of them, and they will all have the same prices and there will be no difference in the market position, but the one who simply processes domestic oil will pay. That's one topic. The second topic we often hear here, which is really political again, I would say, the exchange of thought and which we don't need. Message 2 Croatian refineries are simply obsolete. These are 2 refineries that cannot be produced in sufficient quantities of Eurosuper for the needs of the Croatian market. And we, along with two living refineries of tens of thousands of people who are directly or indirectly bound to processes in refineries importing derivatives. The largest importer of derivatives is INA. Answer, problem because one Hungarian won't sign. What I mean very clearly is, we can politically try to say shouldn't have sold 25%, but try to say that when you have 75% of the votes you can't make a decision that 2 refineries had to be finished this year and next, then something that's really political. Yes, the truth is, it takes the sixth voice of the Hungarians, but it also says in the contracts. Dynamically, when will two refineries be ready? The Rijeka refinery by the end of this year, Sisak to half next. That's what the documents say, and that's what the Hungarians signed. And Hungarian doesn't have to vote, but the majority owner can make a decision. And Hungarian if he's unhappy he can go to court and say he didn't give a vote, I agree. But these Hungarians comply with Croatian laws. They're responsible for INA, not MOL. The members of the INA administration are those who comply with Croatian laws on the future of INA, not MOL. And the owners can argue and judge. Their right. Their right. But we know what they signed. They signed off on not destroying two refineries. They weren't right, they didn't want to edit the Sisak refinery, but they signed off on it. And the answer is, our biggest economic tragedy is the INA administration that doesn't want to modernise two refineries. We are aware that these two refineries could supply not the Croatian market but the entire Central European market. That you should be racing who's going to do it. Since 2000, INA has been making profits. Since 2000. Introduction of new formulas. Money in the INA has, it's not a problem or credit gain, it's not a problem to win. The problem is how much human INA is capable of modernizing two refineries. How many... How much personnel conflict over what technology to choose, and the price paid by Croatian citizens, Croatia's citizens pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we really want to face what is the right of Hungary, which is not the right of Hungary and we do not want to exercise our right as the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has 75% ownership in all the INA documents of the restoration 2 refineries is what is the future of the INA. What Croatian citizens need and do not insist on management to simply be responsible for this development project, then we also have INA importing derivatives instead of INA refineries processing oil from Slovenia, processing oil from Hungary and making money on modern facilities. That's unfortunately true. I do not want to speak either this or that political option, but it is evident that the INA personnel structure has a heavy responsibility that today we do not have two refineries that would give us derivatives that would guarantee all Croatian citizens that their cars will not be destroyed, but that would also improve the foreign exchange balance of the Republic of Croatia. And the foreign exchange balance. Because revenue from selling derivatives in the world could have been revenues that would have been registered in the trade of goods in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64893	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. The final word of the applicant's representative. The word has a minister of finance, Mr. Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's one topic about, we all finally agree that this law should be passed. Everyone has tried to express their impressions and thoughts, but it is evident that something we cannot influence has forced us to go along with this amendment to the Law. But I would not like to enter the controversy at the end of the day with Agent Linic about modernization, but it is evident that some of the decisions that have been made were unfortunately not enough to get some work done. And therefore, looking at the bad experiences of what was before and what has been the past year and a half, two days, certain institutions have now been formed to guarantee that the modernisation of the 2 refineries will end in 2010. I say, right now, the two of us, first of all, as former myself as the current chairman of the Supervisory Board, can argue about this and that, however, the fact is that something has not been done and that something in view of our market environment should be done to Croatia tomorrow and what will be a very important factor for both the economy of Sisak and the wider region and the economy of Rijeka and the wider region. And I think that in this context, the modernisation of the Sisak and Rijeka refineries should be seen in this context. I think that by all of our political influence on local environments we must prevent those who will probably slow down and do some other manifesto. And I think that should be our common political goal regardless of political membership because I repeat, these two objects, entities, however you like, are too important for one and the other region, and for the Republic of Croatia to be the subject of political bickering. And here is the call from here to you, and also to colleagues from Sisak to help this process with everything that the INA administration will do to get us started as soon as possible and ultimately, that self-modernisation of INA will lead to many economic operators from Croatia getting a job and being able to work. So thanks to everyone for the debate, the government will consider the amendments, and when we vote, we will see if we can adopt or not the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64895	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We'll vote on the law when the conditions are met. My colleagues and colleagues are adjourning the hearing today. Tomorrow, proceed at 9:30 with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. Thank you very much. Good night. Session interrupted at 18.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64896	Third. Final proposal for a law amending the Special Tax Act on Oil Products. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club and the HSP Representatives' Club. Ministers, please show the amendment to the Club of Representatives of the HSP, SDP, pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64897	The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the intensity of such a legislative proposal is that in the event of a sudden rise in oil price by reducing excise duties, the government can protect the standard of living, the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and practically prevent price growth. The intensity of these laws where floating excise duties are introduced is not intended to increase excise duties, but rather to reduce in cases where such an increase in prices leads to a blow to the standard of living, to the difficult conditions of business of the Croatian economy and therefore to one and another measure safeguards the competitiveness of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64898	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64899	The purpose of this amendment is to establish the highest excise duty on oil derivatives, but to enable the Government to establish lower excise duties by means of a regulation. In fact, we would make sure that the Parliament decides on what kind of excise duty there will be in that highest amount. We believe that this is enough and that in such a way the government has the opportunity to react if prices rise significantly to tax cuts and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64900	Please, there's a vote to be made. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 21 for the amendment, 2 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64901	The government does not accept the first part of the amendment for the reasons that, by including income from kuna and 20 for Croatian highways and Croatian highways in the State Treasury since 1.1.2006, the total revenue from excise duties has already been practically included in the excise duty and are treated according to the European Community directives as such. So now that reports are being sent to the European Community, let's say that for motor gasoline, Croatia has excise duties of 3 kunas and 10 kunas. So, we have met that minimum cost condition that members of the European Union should have and we have avoided that possibility that could have happened to us if we hadn't included in the revenues from the Croatian Roads and Croatian highways in the State Treasury, that this was not treated with a special tax, but that it was treated with a different fee. As regards the payment of public road compensation for certain economic activities under the law of highway fees are not paid in economic activity but is introduced into certain types of petroleum products. Therefore, if this amendment were accepted, a series of options would be opened where there would be reasonable reasons and other economic activities not to pay that fee either. Therefore, since the legislator made such a decision, he predicted that road charges should be paid on a type of fuel rather than on economic activity. Therefore, the amendment cannot be accepted on that basis. Also, the proposal of the HSP club would be the only country in the European Union to use such a model to determine the basis for VAT calculation. Finally, it was also set by Council Guideline 6 of 17 May 1977 and no matter how much, but it was introduced this, the possibility of introducing floating excise duties that this part of the increased VAT revenue can be practically amortised by reducing excise duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64902	On behalf of the HSP club, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64903	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I agree that we must comply with European legislation. However, it would be good to comply with the practice in our neighbouring countries that are our competition in shipping. It should not be forgotten that the average Italian shipowner pays only 55 euros, 0.55 euros per litre of diesel, and the rest in Italy euro and 16. So there's exactly what we're looking for here. So, the release of shipowners from a special tax on oil derivatives. It is good that it has begun to reason to include a contribution to roads in the excise duty rate, but as far as the amount of excise duties and VAT is concerned, there is no reason to go about this. I'm sure it'll be the next step if it continues to increase oil prices. So that's why I still think our amendment should be accepted. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-11-0.u64904	There's a vote to vote on. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 13 for the amendment, 8 abstentions, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 74 votes for, 14 abstentions and 4 against, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Oil Products was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government.
