ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68271	Good morning, gentlemen. We continue the session with the agenda point – 5. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council HINE 2005/2006. the year In accordance with Article 14. The HINA Act was submitted by the Administrative Council of HINE to that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the report at the session, the government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Does the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System, Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68272	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 58th session held on 8 June 2006 discussed the report on the work of the Governing Council HINE 2005/2006. The year was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Administrative Council of HINE. The Committee has discussed the report on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In particular, in the debate, the Committee supported HINE's activities to increase HINE's share of business income from the media market, business and other information which will reduce the share of the founder's total subscription below 50% in total income as well as activities to identify further developments. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion adopting the report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA for the period 2005/2006. A year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68273	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68274	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of HINE. The first thing I have to say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club is that the professionalism, professionalism, objectivity, timelyity and accuracy in reporting are fundamental and fundamental principles of journalism, and in this part of Croatia has a significant number of problems, we also know that, unfortunately and according to the assessment of international factors, many media in Croatia deal with and form public opinion instead of dealing with the fact that professional, professional, objective, timely and accurate information of the Croatian public and, on the basis of the meaning of professional, professional, objective, timely information of the Croatian public, Croatian citizens themselves form a court on a variety of situations whether it is a matter of political life, whether it is a matter of the work of the Croatian Assembly, whether it is a matter of economy and all other topics. Unfortunately, there are only two examples in Croatia where these principles are largely met. This is an example of HINE and this is an example of Croatian Radio, while another medium should be objective and tell the truth efforts, although the public media, are trying to form a public opinion and even worse is the variation that some media even engage in forming a public opinion. For example, I was particularly surprised by Croatian television itself when presenting a survey of political party ratings, which said that 7.8 is greater than 7.9. I called all mathematicians, I did not get confirmation from any of them, although I say it for Croatian television if public opinion is to be formed then it will happen in the central "Dnevnik" that 7.9 is less than 7.8 although it has failed even Stalin to convince his public and with his services when he had such or similar tasks. Therefore, we must really look back in this debate on how and how, first of all, to improve the situation in the Croatian media in exactly the way HINA and Croatian radio do, so that we can get to the level of objective reporting that requires a modern democratic society, without saying that it forms and forms a public opinion. I think that this is a particular problem not so much at the central reporting level as it is a problem at local levels because it needs to be objective that at local levels media are primarily in the function of the one who acts there and there are also possible various manipulations, i.e. attempts, not only attempts but also concrete public opinion formation because it is the right thing to do in journalism, and that is if something has not been published as if it has never happened. Now if something happened, and it's presented not objectively, professionally and professionally but rather... present in terms of, or attempt to design or even in another variant of public opinion, then we come to this situation in which we are now, and we must also be concerned that it is a good example of HINE that various lobbys, whether they are from the area of the economy, other lobbys have no influence on, say, HINU, do not have an impact on Croatian radio although in other media, means that public, private, means we do not need to talk, because we know that the private media are both working and in what way, but the fundamental principle means for all of them to be this part which is the expertise, professionalism, objectivity and timeliness, and therefore the Croatian Party's rights will support this report with the recommendation to be both at this level and within HINA and must be recognised that there have been certain but these are minor gaps in relation to other media that report that it was and that this part is still being corrected and that they mean an example with Croatian... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] all other media in Croatia how and how to do professionally and professionally their jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68275	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68276	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honored representatives of HINA, colleagues and colleagues! Before us is the report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA on the basis of Article 14. The HINA Act is submitted once a year to the Parliament. The Governing Council in today's meeting was appointed on 24 May 2002, so it has just expired its four-year term, so we can consider this report to be actually a one-term report and therefore perhaps it should have been something more extensive. However, it is within the framework of legal obligations. HINA, as Mr Kovacevic said, is one of the key institutions in Croatia to promote truth, independence because it serves as a wasteland, news and information and today it is the main weapon in every country. Therefore, the status and condition of HINA is of special importance to all of us. As you know, HINA has its own tradition, it is now founded in July 90 as an expression of the wish of a young Croatian state to get an independent house that will be the source of objective and true data and we remember those earlier periods there since 1945 on how long the struggle for independence and truth about Croatia took place, unfortunately for that time it was not matured and we remember TANJUG, we remember a group of journalists headed by Shima Balem who were politically liquidated because they asked TANJUG objectively to report Croatia. It took half a century to achieve such desires and aspirations through political victory over communism. HINA is today an institution with 15 years of employment which is little for such a house in world terms but it has already been profiled in a top professional house. HINA today publishes in Croatian and English 400 titles a day with more than 100 thousand words and it is done by a team of 130 journalists plus 30 other employees and about 60 part-time associates. This report touches on four main problems, so I would like to discuss the report in that order. The first and most important problem is strengthening HINA as a public independent institution. HINA is a member of the European Association of News Agencys together with 30 other countries and is led by the idea of the Statute of the institution, which clearly states: "The agencies that are members of the European Association support the principles of freedom of the media, impartial reporting and are committed to a healthy environment that rests on the freedom of the media, fair competition and simple and fundamental rules of professional action." In this report of the Governing Council, we see that HINA stuck to these frameworks, that it remained an independent medium, an objective medium, and very little criticism was given to its work in the public. However, this means that the HINA administration and the HINA Council administration have managed to resist the pressures that are natural and normal in each society on this type of information source. And yet perhaps this is an opportunity to look back at some of the culinary stories that were going on which this report was definitely denied, and these are stories that there's some kind of information filter in HINA, that there's an editorial filter for free journalistic expression, that it doesn't express itself objectively with some events, say the one in Macele when a thousand 163 victims of communist terror were buried, that HINA didn't want to publish a detective of the Declaration against Communism of the Council of Europe, etc. Apparently, in the report it turns out that these were plantings in some not well-intentioned media and that there was nothing wrong with it, so I think we can also support HINA's further independence in the next term of office and the next administration. What might have to be thrown out of the culinary stories too, because this report shows that it wasn't like that, it was some of the human beings that were being talked about. It seems here that everything was under democratic procedure. There were talks about the admission of 40 journalists without competitions in 2002. However, according to the number of HINA employees here, we see that and it seems not true, although it is a pity that the report does not mention the total number of employees, and then the deficit would be even more reasoned. But in any case, he should be aware that HINA is the strongest political weapon with other public media and that it must remain in the hands of this Parliament. The choice of the Governing Council must be as it is, therefore, that there are not representatives or those who weigh different political parties, but indeed professionals who can get rid of the natural laws of politics and other interesting spheres. This is at the end of the obligation and according to the HINA Act, which says in Article 5, "HINA must not be exposed to any influence that could compromise the accuracy and objectivity of its information." This report shows that this has been the case for both this and that part of the report. Secondly, the area of the report is the financial situation in HINA. HINA's incomes are one part from the state budget, another part from its own income, approximately 51% from state sources, from its own incomes 47% and about 2% from other sources. The report shows that there was a steady slight increase in its own income from 2002 to 2003 by 6% in 2004, by 13% in 2005. 14%, and in that part, the report can really be supported with a small "but" we don't know if it was achieved with the same number of employees or if there really was a significant increase. If there has been a significant increase, then income per employee has fallen which should, of course, be analysed separately, so I point out again as a lack of information on the number of employees. What should be pointed out in the financial report is that the total revenues have grown, the truth is somewhat slower than the inflation rate, but it does not matter because HINA does not have to be profitable and must not be a profitable institution. Total revenues have been growing somewhere between 2% and 2.5% a year for the last four years, so slightly below the inflation rate. The latest year of 2005 which is the subject of this report showed an increase in revenues of only 0.96% which is less than the planned revenue. So somewhere from 32 million 300 grand to 32 million 600 grand. But as I said, that is not the main objective of this report or of this institution. According to the 2005 plan, revenues were planned on a slightly larger scale than 3.1%, and were achieved as I said about a third less. In any case, however, this 15 million - 800 - million - dollar plan was achieved with 15 million, 400 thousand kuna. Therefore, it can also be considered acceptable to an institution that is not profitable. There is also something to be said about the independent revenues from the users of services that amounted to 15 and a half million kuna in 2005. It has increased by 1.3% which may appear to be small, but it should be known that HINA has a small market, a relatively small market compared to large global agencies and that it is acceptable in these frameworks. The revenue from the State budget is slowly reduced in this ratio. He came from 53.3% now to 51.1% and the parent board asked what would happen to HINA when the income from the State budget fell below 50% and its own revenues were above that. We think that with HINA then it should be all the same as now, regardless of the percentage that the budget will give, and it will always give as much as it takes for such a house to survive. It must remain state-owned, it must remain a public house and remain under the control of this Parliament. From the overall business performance of HINA at professional level, it should be said that more than 200 thousand information was broadcast in 2005. That there are 12 daily newspapers, 11 weeks and magazines, 28 radio stations, 11 Internet portals, 58 companies and as many as 35 foreign institutions on their list of contract users. Here we see how important objective news about Croatia is when it goes to these foreign institutions because they are often called on HINA as a source of such information. And that's another reason to support her in her efforts to be an independent public medium. The report is also dedicated to a number of pages on the future of HINA, which is certainly very important and the future Administrative Council should certainly take into account this done and these programmes because HINA is awaiting new steps in development. The first course is to make progress in technology, collect and send news and information towards web services, cable distribution, satellite communications and other modern technologies in this area. What should be mentioned is that a correspondence network should also be expanded in the next period. In fact, the correspondence network in Croatia is too modest except for Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, Pula and Vinkovac, there are no other permanent correspondence sites but are covered by fees. However, according to the law of Article 5, HINA is said to be obliged to develop a network of its correspondence so that it evenly covers all counties. It is therefore one of the first tasks of future HINA leadership. Of course, with the support of the State budget and the increase of independent activities. In any case, the question arises whether HINA has matured to grow into an independent distribution of news to final users. So it's not just a source of information for those who share the news but to direct those news to final users, to individuals and so on. Perhaps the new administration will take their stand on this. It's a big optimistic bite, and I think you should also support it. In the end, we have a report on the political sources that HINA most sent to the world and most reported. For example, how the following broadcasts from the Office of the President in a year 1615 news. About the work of Parliament 1596. So a little bit less than, a little less than the President's Office. We could get the impression that we're the state with the presidency as we used to be. Obviously, there are few remains to be corrected in the direction of improving information on the work of the Parliament. And another interesting piece of information that I always like to read in public media. How many percent of the news came from the ruling coalition and how many from the opposition? We know in public media that the opposition is always very dominant here. HINA's got a better situation. HINA broadcasts on the ruling coalition 3 thousand 570 news in a year and opposition 3 thousand 948. So the opposition only had 373 news more than the ruling, which is about 10%. So it should also be commended because in other public media, the ratio to the opposition is much higher. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68277	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS Club Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Boltek, my colleagues and they still don't carry it, and then it can be more casual. I would like to say at the beginning that the HSLS Club will accept this opinion, an apology report on the work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Information News Agency. You see, here's a colleague of Hebrang, maybe he accidentally gave the creamworth when we talk about how we actually treat the media and show that we're very sensitive and that we actually use every moment to measure who has more or less? And then it certainly seems to us that there's a lot more or more of those others that they've actually contaminated this media space in some way, and that we're a little or too little or not enough. And that's what they wanted, not all of us obviously wanted to see this little, little totalitarian devil who would actually want to control and actually arrange a picture of the public according to one of his own, his own standards. And then it's always, and then we don't need each other at all, I think even if it's even bad you know. I think right now, not because we're ahead of this replica, but that's just the way it is. If you're involved in politics then certainly you want your ideas, your values to be as represented as possible and in some way to be unique. And it's hard to expect the media to be much better than we are. And the media is actually showing a very big danger, and it's from, that if we already have on the political scene the bipolarization of our political scene, then about the media behaves, so you have only left-right, white-black, but however, good-bad however you want and there's actually very little that, something between those two options, between those two extremes. And it is in this sense that HINA also shows one good example of how, however, in this society, no matter what society is in transition, which is incomplete in many segments that can actually be balanced and yet one relatively objective picture of this society can be shown. And that's what I'm saying to us on this side rejoices only unfortunately HINA is just one of the players at this big media game. The market is already fairly clearly distributed and what I think counterpart Kovacevic was just saying is I don't think it's really the biggest problem either in Croatian television or in this to tell the big media. Where and where more dangerous is what is happening at this local level where privacy actually dominates and how else this is the time to become more and more capitalists, to become more and more closed, cariculous and actually want to watch what is created at home. It becomes where and where the greater danger to this very objectivity on our policy becomes. So I say we spend a lot of time here in these discussions as much as Croatian television is public, how much is a "Latinica" show or some other on our part. But what is really happening at the local level is, for some time, the one that has crossed the limits of good taste, and I think that is actually there and on the Croatian Journalist Society's move, but we, as a policy, are still the kind of uniform code, and here I am being warned that I may not be quite the most dressed for this High House, so there should also be a certain code of conduct in our media that should still be supported and where it is precisely the fact that private capital enters and dictates and then actually determines political relations at local levels, and these are not so insignificant local levels. This is about the county, the cities that really represent a very important political, economic and ini factor on Croatian occasions. That's exactly what I'm saying, it would be just fine for these vibrations that come from this report and the way HINA works to become exactly the one of these codes of behavior for the media at this national level. But I'm also saying it would be very good if this policy was soon to open a public topic about how it actually stands with the media at local level which I say have really long crossed the limits of good taste and it's not just about manipulation, but really at least when I say falsifying reality then I'm still quite expressing euphemism. I'm just saying for these reasons something like a contribution to some third options, about one balanced, about that way of showing that life can have a sense of measure and that nothing too much, nothing too small. For these very reasons, the HSLS Club will give this report support and once again I say thank you, and these are some details I say to genre we can say here's the report really covering what the report should look like and it would be a little malignancies to say some more serious remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68279	Thank you very much. Correction Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68280	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Kramaric misquoted my statement incorrectly. In fact, I didn't count from political interests where the news came from. This was numbered by the administrative council and said in its report. So that there was 373 more news on the opposition side than on the ruling coalition's side, which means 10% more of the opposition had a chance to present themselves in public and that's all I wanted to say. I personally would never count it, not because I wouldn't care, but because I know the result in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68281	Correction Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68282	Dear Mr. Vice President, also my colleague Kramaric misquoted me. I said that the biggest problem at the local level is how to relate to the public media without talking about private media because it is the very ones who rule in those areas where no other information other than their praises can pass and get a place in the reporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68283	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68284	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Boltek, colleagues and colleagues. I think the atmosphere in which this report is being discussed today, and it is very different from what the HINA reports were discussed ten years ago to confirm the democratic progress of the Republic of Croatia or at least progress in the area of place to which a news agency such as HINA should have. As you know, ten years ago, there were large debates in the Croatian public that HINA, which should be an objective way of reporting citizens, was also politically biased, related to some political views, options, etc. Today no one has said this here and this debate shows that HINA has found its place in the democratic system of the Republic of Croatia, of course a general compliment to the entire system. So in one area, we got rid of some problems and got rid of them. Of course, as soon as one problem is solved, another problem arises, which is a place that if there are no political disputes, and if there is no such political supremacy, there is a question that now the new place of HINA in the reporting system in the Republic of Croatia. Fortunately, there are examples here, there are news agencies. HINA is also a member of the News Agency Association. There are standards, so there's not much to make up. But still some questions about HINA's actions are open. And state media, media owned by the state, knew that if they were given the opportunity to also get a little bit into the area of commercialisation, because of course they tried to strengthen their financial position in such a way and of course with this problem, this is actually a fundamental issue of the philosophy of the action of every state media is also faced with HINA. I wouldn't even assess the state and the media space. I don't think that would be taken over or the position of HINA. What interests me in all of this is, in fact, that HINA succeeds in this effort to present and provide serious information. It is said here that serious information is the cornerstone of the work of news news agencies and, of course, I would like that serious information to be made available as much as possible and as wide a circle of citizens of the Republic of Croatia as possible. That's not the case, unfortunately. HINA's information is transmitted through newspapers, but if you try on HINA's portal, then on the site of HINA, you get information that you don't think you'll find them elsewhere, or that the quality of the information will be better, then you'll mostly be wrong. On HINA's site, if you're not a subscriber, you'll find very smooth information, very limited access, almost less than you'll find on some commercial sites. I don't think that's a good brand. If this is to be paid, if the state needs to increase its HINA funding to achieve this, then that should be done. That's why I'm not happy about what's still being said in the Web concept report here. There is talk of discussion, or thinking in this sense, and it is said that the web and future concepts are more like a subscription web. And I don't think that's good. Of course HINA should try to have as many original incomes as possible. That also confirms her quality of work. But I think that the web as an increasingly powerful means of obtaining information in the Republic of Croatia and everywhere, of course, in the world that a national news agency should not be dominantly prepaid, because this means that the majority of citizens will still look for some information to turn to commercial webs, and then, of course, it is a question of what is the basic quality of HINA's work, or the News Report Agency, and it should also be the fundamental quality of the action of all reporting houses, which is the seriousness of the information. It's something that I think is also on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, but I don't think on my personal behalf it's a good trend, and of course I'd like to consider whether that orientation is the best in this sense in HINA. We are convinced that in this general trend of commercialisation, sensationalism that exists in Croatian media. I don't need to talk about him, he's the fruit of some general process, it's hard to avoid him, but it would be good to strengthen something that is, in that sense, serious. Which, of course, is independent, which by definition is not yellow. And the only real or one of the very rare institutions that could be, and that doesn't cost much because the total HINA budget is, as you can see, very poor for numbers, large figures that we naturally meet in the work of government bodies, etc. So, I'm sorry that's the orientation. I think it has been her fault so far that too much reservation, that is, the restriction on the availability of information on the web. If that's a new concept, strengthening that concept, then I don't think that's good. And another thing about policy tracking. I cannot be satisfied with the fact that the Croatian Parliament is here on page 28 by the amount of news, according to the number of news about the work of the highest authorities of the state, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic and the Croatian Parliament only in third place. Of course, it doesn't necessarily have to just talk about what it does in this sense of HINA. It can also speak of the Croatian Parliament, of course, but it is certainly not good that the Croatian Parliament is in third place behind the President of the Republic of Croatia and behind the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think that the Parliament is the place where the highest political topics are discussed and I think it would be logical in a parliamentary system such as the Republic of Croatia and wants to strengthen it, of course, in that sense, that Parliament is the third largest institution reported by the State Reporting Agency here. Then, of course, we cannot expect that the reporting of some other commercial news outlets will be more favourable in terms of the Croatian Parliament. I don't think that's good, and he thinks it should be noticed here. As far as party tracking is concerned. It is logical that the opposition and government are equally equally represented. It's logical in a democratic state. But a fellow Hebrang who spoke here forgot that any government presentation is the most common presentation of the ruling party and the ruling policy. In this regard, it is not illogical for opposition parties in the presentation and HINA but, of course, other newspapers that they want or think they should objectively report that the opposition when only looking at parties is more represented. Because the ruling party makes up for its media presentation through presentations of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So these are the remarks which, or the thoughts that I thought should be expressed on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party. But I repeat, the most valuable fact of this debate or this type of debate is that in this way, the affirmative link between political accusations is calmly, analytically, without questioning the objectivity of HINA. It is certainly the biggest gain of this debate, that is, the biggest gain of what HINA has managed to achieve in recent years. And in that sense, this report will support the Croatian People's Party's Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68285	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68286	Thank you very much. I would just like to correct this information about the ruling and opposition parties. Namely, the government's work, a colleague of Radosh, has been specifically cited here. And very good. With 2 thousand 539 news. And it's the government's work. And below, the government's parties are quoted so many times and the opposition parties so many times. So there's no government work here. This is definitely at the expense of ruling coalition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68287	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68288	Dear Mr. Vice President, representative of HINA, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HSS Club will support this report on HINA's work for 2005, 2006. Almost all club representatives expressed their support, rated the situation far better than it was. There is almost an impression of an ideal state in the media because of course HINA is the cornerstone of that state, a framework almost for action. Of course, I will not say that the situation is not like that, but I will try to do a little polematically to open up the total of space, indicate some problems that should not be run away from and try to give some suggestions to the Governing Council of HINE in which way to continue the quality path of development that HINA started, and thus also give the incentive to create a more objective media space in the whole of Croatian media. In fact, I think we'll all agree that what's important has to be confirmed again and asked to insist on these principles and principles on which HINA still works today. The professionalism and independence of the fact that this House is overseeing the work of HINE, the fact that HINA is really one framework within which the overall media space is happening and that it is very important that all information is serious, accurate, but also timely. The professionalism and independence of HINE is a prerequisite for everything that is to be achieved, but also an indication of how and how it should be done in the media. Of course HINA cannot in itself and is not responsible for the overall situation in the media space of Croatia, of course it is the result of the relationship and circumstances in which we are, that the result of the over-influence of the policy on certain media was printed, whether electronic, that the circumstances in which we are located are all not ideal and that in this context and in such circumstances the total media space should be seen. The step HINA has made is a final or final manifestation of HINA's possibilities, but of course it takes far more difficult work and times to create that framework of media action that will be at the level of those companies that Croatia holds that it should be. Namely, I can say from the aspect of the Croatian Peasants' Party that there are different topics that break through in the media. There are certain topics on which almost no one cares or simply refuses to publish them. HINA does not, in this regard, forerunners, but I can confirm that whenever certain news happens that has the character of a serious national topic, certain values which are held to be fallen or do not belong to the modern world, which depict the real principles on which traditional society rests, that these and such topics are usually very difficult to find a place in the media, that they are either silent or that, even if HINE does not find other users, they do not find other users either in the written or in the electronic media. These topics are simply published on the portal for up to 12 hours, and then covered by some other sensational news. Whenever people want to talk seriously about topics they do not want to Polish and they do not want to fight politically, they want to say about seriousness, the reality of Croatian problems, political, economic, social, ethical, then they cannot again get the rights they should have in their content, but also the objectivity that they should adhere to. They don't have it. Therefore, there are still issues in this society that have greater rights and those which have smaller rights and it is precisely the Croatian Parliament's place to talk seriously and about this segregation of media relations that definitely exists in our society, because it is not understandable and it is not understandable that certain topics that are being updated only when there is a certain need for it, or are being updated when a certain group or certain powers think that these topics should be updated for some other reasons, then they get their full update in all the printed media, electronic media and three days can practically represent the impacting skeletons not to inform citizens but not to inform themselves about what they should be informed about. Therefore, the problem exists, the problem will be. What is most important and here I agree with my colleague Radosh, it is very important that the process of commercialisation of HINA, which is of course necessary, is not primary. If it becomes the goal then HINA will also be affected by those dangers that almost no excuse or exception has survived on the market, which is a market scale that will also put information in the context of positive and negative and then the information will lose its weight. Therefore, we do not advocate that HINA does not have the right to commercial activities, but absolutely, given the situation in which Croatian society is located, because of the reality of our media, because of our responsibility, I think it is important that we increase the opportunities of HINA by additional means and create stronger professional circumstances in which HINA will operate, and therefore the overall media space and strengthen not only the websites, but also local positions that are very important, which are very important and thus we can create a different, more objective and quality picture. Of course, local media have been mentioned which, of course, do not have to be in this system that has the right to have their own image, who have the right to own sources of information, but also the availability of information is the main prerequisite in which they will create the information themselves. Therefore, the expansion of the HINA network, strengthening the flow of information that will reach all local centres in our country, is a prerequisite for creating a uniform picture of information that will not look different in Vukovar and different in Pula and different in Dubrovnik. Therefore, networking of the system is the most important task of HINA in the future, opening a website for all those and creating free websites for users is one principle that should just prove that HINA is a framework for positive media action, and thus I will not show commercialisation of information or reformation of information, creating information on information, accurate transfer of all information to end users, and these are our citizens. How much and to what extent HINA responded to opportunities on the political market, as followed by individual parties, individual politicians, in which way and whether it was really proportionate, whether it was fair and fair or not. Of course, anyone can make their case. We at the HSS Club can't agree that it was fair and fair. It's not. As far as HSS is concerned, I say no. And of course, that won't be a reason not to support this report, but that's a reason to point out that, often from our press conferences, with those attitudes that the HSS had not found places in the reports, that they were neither in the written nor in the electronic media, nor were they often an object of interest to HINA. Therefore, as far as anyone is concerned, we must strengthen the reputation of HINA precisely for the reason that we create a positive atmosphere in the media or create a positive and fair relationship in Croatian politics and lately the media are in some way the main pillars that build political institutions. That is how I would like to say that with these remarks we hope to find their place when we get the next report on the work of the HINA Governance Council, the HSS Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68289	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The SDP Club certainly supports this report by the HINA Governance Council. We think HINA is a valuable national agency, that it works well, that it works professionally. There is no one who could not be pointed out or found any objections, perhaps such objections can also be found for HINA. Maybe you could object to the speed of the news broadcast. It's not even, it's not standardized, sometimes news is broadcast spotlessly, sometimes it goes a few hours from events to news when it's being broadcast by HINA. It would be good if things like that got a little bit better. The SDP does not otherwise have any major objections either in the way of monitoring political parties or in the way of monitoring events in Croatia at all. We're always perfectly satisfied, but my God, it's hard to imagine the work of someone that everyone could always be satisfied with. But we want to point out one other thing and that's the only reason we're reporting on behalf of the club. In addition to all those tasks that HINA performs, the SDP Club proposes to take over another one. A decision of course should be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We also suggested this on the Media Committee when discussing this point. Namely, the interpretation of our party, our club about the House Vesnik, has been rejected in this House. The prime minister said in his current class yesterday that he has no idea what's going on at the Vesnik house. That's what he said here, "I don't know what's going on out there." responds to MP Vujic's question. It's very surprising that the Prime Minister doesn't know what's going on at the Vjesnik house, but we believe he does, that he doesn't. The Vjesnik house is collapsing and the prime minister doesn't know what's going on seems to be going down further. Where it's going to end, no one knows either. Because if the Prime Minister doesn't know, who might know. But "The Vesnik."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68291	Report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68292	Yeah, we'll come to that now. But Vesnik has one database of national values. It is the most valuable database in Croatia, there is no one. If the Vesnik ends the way we're afraid it'll end, we're wondering what's going to happen to that database. We suggest that this national treasure be saved and that this Vesnik database be connected to HINA's EVA database. HINA has a future that's quite safe, first HINA is protected by law, has its own special law, "Vjesnik" has no such law. HINA is more stable in this regard, its future is more certain or almost entirely certain. So we suggest that this national treasure, the exceptional value of the Vesnik house documentation, would not follow the fate of the house itself or go into suspense to try to save itself. HINA seems to be ready for this, to download this database, to integrate into its own database and to create one program that would allow the search and use of this database for all users. This would greatly facilitate the work of not only newspapers, not only journalists who need these databases but also many other users. A Vjesnik like that can neither do it nor probably want to do it. He only has the wealth of it, so here's the debate we use exclusively to call for the salvation of a national treasure. If Vjesnik goes into some kind of privatization it'll go into private hands. Look, it can get in somebody's way, it can throw it all away. There's some private guy coming in, that's who they were. It'll be too late to cry later. It will be too late to speak and it will be too late for the Prime Minister to say I didn't know what he said he didn't know. Yesterday he says he doesn't know. So he'll say again I didn't know it existed there. So we're warning the prime minister now. Here's if he listens to this, if he doesn't listen, tell him. Now he knows, from this moment on, there's a treasure in the Vjesnik house or he's bound to know after this and make sure that treasure is saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68293	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68294	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. HINA. Here is of course that, in accordance with the conclusions presented by the distinguished representative Hebrang, we will support this report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2005 and part of 2006. The media are of exceptional validity for the development of a democratic society and it is HINA that has one special task, since yet the Croatian Parliament has the opportunity to monitor and suggest and discuss the report of the Governing Council, as well as the work itself and the way HINA represents and conveys and forms and agrees with the news. Croatia must have one reporting agency of this type, among other things, and because of the need for the public to be informed in quality, objectively and quickly about all those processes that are expecting us at this time, and these processes are not simple, for many they are neither understandable, and I believe that this role of HINA can be extremely significant in this part of Croatia's accession to the European Union. Unlike other media that are privately owned and simply shoot yellow and red, however, HINA can be said of a lot more positive regardless of these remarks that have been made in advance and before me on behalf of representatives clubs and presented. I would certainly like to stress here that I also agree with the Government of Croatia's view that there is a need to display visible data on the financial resources that HINA has achieved from the state budget, as well as the way these funds have been spent. Believing that HINA can inform the Croatian public even better and better, believing that it can deal with processes that occur in media spaces not only in Croatia but also in our wider environment, I will support this report on the work of the Governing Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68295	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68296	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Bolfek in front of HINA, I would support this report anyway. Croatia's news agency in October last year marked the 15th anniversary of its operation. I think she broadcast her first story on August 17, 1990. So, three weeks after the HINA Act was established, which was amended in 2001. By transforming HINA from a state institution to an independent public institution and an independent public media. As far as public media independence is concerned, I think it would be an opportunity for us to talk about it once and for the Assembly as a special fully independent thematic unit. But I don't think that's important in this context of your report that you've filed now. HINA today has an enviable daily fluctuation of news, with even 400 news published daily and provides permanent jobs to a large number of editors and journalists together about 160. Although HINA employees also have responsible and less responsible persons who publish information before checking their meaning or accuracy, it must be said that HINA has achieved that in their reports it is often quoted by the world's leading news agencies, which means that it is believed and that its expertise and credibility are respected, and that is what every journalist wants most deeply in the heart. Addressing agency journalism as a specific form of journalism, HINA crossed its path and took a high place among European news agencies. It has its own electronic database with around 1.3 million data, its own photo service and provides multi-media services. Why is agency journalism so important? Domestic and foreign news agencies are the main sources of news for journalists. Therefore, for a quality journalistic discourse, simplicity, accuracy, reliability and impartiality of agency information is important. As regards HINA's work in the past year, it is also important to commend the successful business of the agency itself, which has continuously increased its revenues over the past three to four years. They increased by as much as 14.56% in 2005. What is even more commendable is the fact that these revenues have been made at unchanged subscription prices to HINA's services. The increase in revenue has enabled another positive aspect of the opening of permanent correspondence in Brussels as the headquarters of the European Union and the North-Atlantic Union. Since the Republic of Croatia has opened up pre-accession negotiations with the European Union, it would be really funny if HINA hadn't opened the office in Belgium. On the other hand, the costs of this correspondence will be covered by the revenues of a new service, so-called service. EU information opened in November 2005. I personally welcome every kind of information from the Croatian public about the events in the Western European agency because, unfortunately, that is still too little today. Today's journalism is unfortunately often sensational with a lot of incorrect information or facts taken out of context, all showing a degree of unprofessionalism that has affected a number of journalists. Since the time when nothing was allowed to appear in public, we have come at a time when in public it is trying to present almost everything regardless of the consequences. Every freedom and freedom of speech carries a proportional degree of responsibility. In Croatian journalism, however, this responsibility is often forgotten under cover that someone wants to shut up. It also forgets the right of any reader, listener, or viewer to possess accurate and more accurate information. The point of journalism is to say the exact information. Not the first to say a particular information that is most often later found out has nothing to do with facts. The Croatian news agency is still relatively well balanced between the concepts of urgency and accuracy, thus providing a brighter example to other journalists. I support your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68297	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68298	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the colleague has argued that for me, it is questionable how every journalist wants to work on the principle of expertise, professionalism, objectivity, accuracy and timelyity. If every journalist wanted to, if every editor wanted to do so then the media situation and the media picture would be quite different in Croatia. Then there would be no public opinion, then there would be no public opinion but would be allowed for Croatian citizens to do it themselves. But unfortunately, in many other media, the situation is quite different. So I say again I highlight this example of HINA, an example of Croatian Radio. There are other media and daily newspapers that adhere to these principles, and it is important that society, news associations finally begin to work and take action on this part because we will not have adequate media with the development of a democratic society unless expertise, professionalism, objectivity, justice and accuracy comes first. So I'd like it to be what you say, but unfortunately, the situation mostly at local level is very different where the media is totally controlled. We're not talking about private media, we're even controlled by public media, and I'm not talking about private media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68299	The reply to the replica of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68300	I thank Mr. President and answer to my colleague Kovacevic. At the beginning of my presentation, I was just saying that on the subject of public media independence, we could hold a special assembly session. The subject is so burning and so sensitive. But I wanted to separate it. So the rest of journalism and everything that appears through public media would separate from this HINA report or I would single out exactly the importance of the accuracy and accuracy of agency information as a prerequisite for more quality journalism. What is happening in journalism today in Croatia, I think we all witnessed no matter what daily newspapers we started reading or even weekly newspapers. Of the lack of columnal criticism, of the lack of real political comments that we once knew were in the former newspaper. So I think there's been a decline in the quality of journalism in general. But somehow it doesn't seem to have much to do with HINA's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68301	Thank you. At 10:33, it was time to report... a ten-minute duration of this wheel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68302	Thank you, Mr. President. He's a representative of HINA. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Indeed, this subject should not be too much to talk about, because all my predecessors have mostly given a positive assessment of HINA's work in the past year, so I join myself in some way in such thinking. I wouldn't be here about what's going on in journalism because that's not so much a topic of this agenda today. I'd try through a few points to focus on this report. First and foremost, I would like to say that HINA has so far been profiled as a very objective medium. I know when it comes to the media in general of any type that subjectively judge their objectivity, but here we all agree that HINA really represents one pearl, one pearl in those media that we have so far and all of us have observed is developing in a positive direction. It's especially good that on today's political scene there are often times when a desire to bipolarise is happening, and we can freely conclude that HINA here is quite objectively balanced in that kind of desire to be... The democratisation of society is developing in the right direction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, when we talk about local media, we have to address here a certain public criticism of such types of media, which unfortunately do not consume enough a number of useful information that HINA provides even though we can conclude that there is a lot of times in these local media and interference between local powerful people who are not wanted and are not good for the development of the democratisation of society, but of course HINA can neither influence it nor could it be good. It is also evident that HINA is a recognised agency in this round of activities in the world and normally that the development processes that are happening can only raise HINA ratings. So I would say that the work of last year is indeed characterized as successful and due to a large number of journalists and editors who are doing their job very objectively and correctly. However, I would still refer here to chapter five relating to the achievement and development of the information system where it describes these development cycles that were actually started in 2003 by upgrading the HINA editorial system. Indeed, it is one key phase of the realization of this longer-term information project, which is even as it is written here in 2001 with the aim of creating technological assumptions for the transition from this classical service to an interactive personalised medium that is naturally used and adapted to today's users. What I would like to say is that I may be a little bit sorry that the overall development or overall information processes carried out by the government may still be taking place in a somewhat inadequately connected way. It is too separate, so that every system of retirement, from health care not to say anything further builds its information systems in sport and so on, which is not good because it would be useful to finally define one, one strategy for informing the development of Croatia that could define public information services. Why am I saying that? Because then HINA would also be easier to get some data that are often important not only from the point of view but also because it can also be referred to these very media sources. Here's to commending HINA's work. This one of my observations regarding the development of the entire information system, and then of course yours. Thank you very much. I support, of course, the report on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68303	Thank you. Director of HINA, Mirko Bolfek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68304	Honorable MPs and MPs. I must first tell the President of the Administrative Council of Mr. Jadranko Crnić who, behold, could not because it is outside of Zagreb to be personally here today. So here I am to thank you for a very interesting and certainly useful discussion for HINA. And to give this opportunity some explanation. First, when it comes to the financial independence of HINA. It comes in this direction that it is making more revenue through market positioning and that relatively decreases the share of former budget funds that are still realised in contractual form. I would like to say that it is a strategic concept that a medium that is not confirmed on the market actually reduces its credibility and credibility. In other words, information that is sponsored and funded, even when it is correct, is not believed. News agencies, including HINA, are in a position to form and broadcast their news, which according to a certain criteria, as an event of choice, in the media that are finalists, HINA is, for example, a wholesaler competing to be published. In other words, what HINA emits, and what certain media take over, has in some way won not only by its content but by its very nature and has been taken as convincing and credible. These principles apply in particular when it comes to informing abroad. No news agency, no serious media will take over information that is not credible enough. In order for them to be credible, they must comply with this principle of financial independence. And that's why this trend that has insisted on the last four years is important not only as a financial balance. Because it's not really about the big funds. But as one essential component of the vision in which HINA should be developed. And if we look at other news agencies that are in the countries... Democracys have passed this route the share of the state as subscribers and all services that the media service has reduced to 30%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, in the countries of the narrow media market, the situation does not go at that speed either, nor is it possible to reflect these models. So I point that out from that angle, not just from the point of view of pure financial results. And in this respect it is important to answer the question that the report specifically highlighted what now that HINA is able to cross that 50% magic line. And right away, I'm saying, it shouldn't happen that the question should continue to be looked at only from the point of view to say fiscal policy. This new model should be motivated and stimulating enough for HINA itself to continue working in this direction. And we have already proposed to the Ministry of Culture one model, since it kind of intercedes between HINA and the Government that those funds that HINA will probably be achieved by over 50% of the relative participation from next year, that they are preferred to follow in the same proportion, so for each kuna of their own income, HINA is one kuna premium to say so by state, but in a way that these funds are isolated and intended for the development of HINA, not for any cost. And right away, in that sense, there are two very specific development programs. One is correspondence in Brussels that we opened without sufficient financial support. What is also highlighted today, and the report says complete coverage of Croatia's HINA correspondence network, which now exists in Croatia in Rijeka, Split and Osijek, and should be covered evenly by the entire territory of Croatia. One more thing. When you read the financial data, and I hear there's a score in the government I've never seen before. It was mentioned that there was a government statement about this report, and I didn't see it, so I don't know exactly what it says. But I would like to stress that it is important to keep in mind that the incomes of HINA have increased, as MP Hebrang said something below inflation. But that the income from the founder or the budget remained nominally frozen at 2002-In other words, these incomes from the founders were not adjusted either for inflation or for the percentage of which the general budget expenditures of the whole country were moving. And immediately to mention that the idea of fellow representatives of Rados that HINA's website should be fully opened in order to make that information available to the general public, unfortunately, is invaluable if HINA remains comprehensible in this mixed market model because the news that we would freely make available to everyone would not then be able to sell to the media. However, something else is happening that all 11 websites that are our subscribers are practically recycling and the same news is whether so it can be found on all other websites, there is no shortage of HINA's information, only they are not only on HINA's web and that's good because if they were only on HINA's website, I mean that it is in its seriousness and in the media space under quotes "sufficient", but also on the index website, on Telecom, on the vip web and all other already known websites in Croatia, practically 80% of the contents of political news are HINE, so they are available in this way. I'd just like to explain two specifics for a little while. This question, which also Mr. Hebrang asked about the admission of 30 people in 2002 into a working relationship, I mean that there were welcome part-timers who actually worked in HINA for years on black and nothing more than that, because it was people that HINA needed. On the one hand, without them, she could not function in the way needed, and on the other hand, these people were denied their basic rights. And finally the idea of Vesnik's file. I would like to point out that we in HINA have not yet made this complete to say the project, but we think that it is the contents that are complementary, which in 4, 5 years' time might also have a financial justification in terms of being able to cover a large part of the income on the market, but at this point it was in the "Vjesnik" or in some state body or fourth place, including in some variant of connecting with HINA, it is the annual cost of cold drive of 2, 3 million kuna per year as it is now costing the "Vjesnik", as much as it would probably cost the state if it stored that base in one of its institutions. So, in no case is it an opportunity for HINA to take over and finance it itself. Well, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68305	Thank you very much. Here's the report, the government's opinion, and now we're going to deliver that opinion to the government. The government is proposing to the Parliament to accept the Labour Report, and there is one saying that revenues and expenditures for 2005 and 2004, in the revenue achieved, that there is no indication of how much revenue and expenditure is achieved in relation to the State budget. But that's good. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA 2005/2006. A year. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. A report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA in 2005/2006 is hereby adopted. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 88 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I am voting on the next conclusion. It is up to the government of the Republic of Croatia to consider the possibility of connecting the data of Vjesnik's documentation and HINA's base "EVA". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Eva and Adam. The result? 68 for, 11 abstentions, 9 against. The proposed conclusion was made, so let the government consider the possibility of connecting Eve and Adam.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68308	Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me look back in a few words on the work of the CNB, as well as on the current planetary and wider economic situation in Croatia. At this time of six years, and we were faced not only with the long-term consequences of war, the transition crisis, and international isolation but also with the short-term consequences of two economic shocks events in Kosovo, their implications on the balance of payments, gross... the product and other crisis in the banking system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The consequences of this were the decline, and then the much slower growth of the gross domestic product, and the slowdown of all reforms, the acceleration of inflation, and the loss in the planetary sphere, and the stagnation of foreign reserves, press, liquidity or better said high indifference in the system and high interest rates. Today, after six years, this situation seems to be very different. In the middle of 2000, CNB foreign exchange reserves amounted to around 3 billiard euros and covered 29% of annual imports of goods and services. Today, they amount to 9.3 billion euros and cover almost 50% of the annual value of imports. The monetary base as the main monetary aggregate in this period increased 2.7 times and with an annual growth rate of over 17%, twice as fast as the nominal gross domestic product grew. The level of money optics is halved. With ten twists in 2000 on today's six turns a year and the ratio of total liquid assets and gross domestic product increased from 41% to 63%. Trust in the national currency has also been increased and the share of kuna savings in total savings has doubled from 14% to 28%. The average interest rate on loans with the currency clause as the dominant form of credit in Croatia is from 12% to 6.3%. The interest rate on the money market fell from 7 to 1.7%. And the inflation measured at consumer prices is down from 5.5% in 2000 to an average of 2.4% from 2001 to 5 months 2006. And finally, and most importantly. The average GDP growth rate rose from 1 to 4.7%. What do those numbers show? They show that throughout this period and contrary to general belief, monetary policy has been extremely expansional and directly supporting economic growth while maintaining inflation at very low levels. Why, with such monetary expansion, economic growth was not faster. This is the result of the money demand structure and it is not, as you know, a monetary phenomenon, depending on the overall situation in the real sector and on the country's overall economic policy. And at the same time as all of this, important transformations of the monetary and wider financial system have been made. The amending legislation, the new Act on CNB, the Law on Banks, the Foreign Exchange Act, the Law on Payments, etc. And they were introduced... the interbank business systems, including the large payment system and the national clearing system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] New monetary policy instruments including open market operations, overnight deposits and intra-day loans have been introduced, etc. Credit control of banks has been improved and a stable money market and the country's financial market has been briefly developed. And in short, the monetary situation today is very different from the one six years ago. However, this comparative rate, the comparison of the two static states in 2000-2006, actually speaks very little about what really happened within that period, which were the decisive events, which were the problems and which were also the negative consequences of such movements. So it's important to distinguish three significantly different sub-terms in that period of six years. She was just alone in 2000 and 2001. It was a time when the CNB led a highly expansional monetary policy by giving a monetary injection to the financial and real sector that it was then needed. This was done primarily by reducing the minimum reserve rate. And by the end of 99, it was 30.5%, and by the end of 2000 it was reduced to 23, and by the end of 2001 to 19%. In those two years, the primary money was issued 66% and the cash mass was increased by 70%, the total liquid assets by 84% and this was an important reason why it was never again talked about indifference in the system, and at the same time with such expansion policy of the CNB we broke with the old dogmoma and the rise in national currency exchange rates as objects of debt, strong, permanent interventions. We let the rate freely form on the market under such conditions of monetary expansion. And that's what happened. The course stabilised in those two years at 7.56 kuna for the euro. The CNB was not present on the market for more than 6 months. Then came a speculative attack on the Kuna. When, and during a time that was usually the period of depletion of the exchange rate where the course applied to 7.12 kuna, then jumped to 7.70 in the peak of the tourist season. The CNB then intervened within 2 weeks with a total of 400m euros and announced the exchange rate. After that, he remained mostly stable. What course was that? This was a course under which, under the terms of 2001, the current balance of payments deficit was only 3% of the GDP. And in other words, even in such imperfect conditions, it was a balanced course. And inflation is, of course, reduced. Basic inflation fell to only 1.2% in 2001 and remained at that level for the next two years. And the second period within the six years begins in fact at the end of 2001 and in early 2002 when we were faced with another shock, and caused by the introduction of the euro and... currency in euro. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In just a month, more than a billion euros have been poured into the banking system from citizens' pockets. The system and the CNB managed to neutralize the inflow, and there was no impact on inflation or on the exchange rate. At that time, however, another inflow of over a billion and two hundred million euros followed in the second part of 2002 that banks were in debt abroad. The consequences were evident back then. The course realistically applied by 2.8% of goods and services was doubled from 5.5% to 11% of GDP, and current balance of payments transactions reached a record 8.6% of GDP. It was just a hint of events that followed and that continue today. And the CNB responded immediately to them with a fierce criticism of all stakeholders in the country and abroad including the IMF, and at that time we were accused of suffocating development, limiting consumption, enslaveing low inflation dogs as the only economic objective of the central bank. Since then, we have movements and relationships that have been retained to this day and about which we talk a lot every day. Why are these relationships exactly like that? There are several reasons, and they all started to meet in 2003. The first is, in some ways, seemingly absurd and previous successes in reducing inflation and exchange rate stabilisation have reduced the perception of risk for foreign investors and also for domestic credit users with the currency clause. Then it's by the bank and then it's already taken over 90% of the domestic banking system,... and organised their business, while at the same time in the European Union, there was a stagnation at the fall of interest rates, which increased the difference between the yields made in Croatia and the contribution to the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, foreign banks started to do the job they came to Croatia for. Which is why they bought domestic banks. They started, they began to dominate large and relatively cheap money, and the European Union to the Croatian market. It is simply a standard picture of the effects of globalisation of financial systems on the national economy. On the other hand, after decades and more denials, the country's tendency to spend has been increased. And the population and the business and the state. Simply because bank loans have now been financed by this increased consumption. The budget deficit has also been increased due to the rapid construction of infrastructure. As a result, the consequences were also known. From the 12th month 2002 to the end of the 5th month 2006, the banks owed a net of EUR 6.7 billion. Their external debt is growing at an average rate of 35% annually. The banks say it is among other things the result of the CNB measures. If it wasn't for those measures, we'd be less in charge. Okay. And let's rule out the effects of CNB measures on bank borrowing. However, without these measures, they have committed more than EUR 5 billion with an annual growth of 29%. And the share of their debt in the GDP is doubled from 15% to 31%. At the same time, the borrowing of other sectors of state and business has increased, so that in the past 3 and a half years, the country's external debt has increased from 15 billion to 27 billion euros. So for 12 billiards, the share in GDP is lower from 62 per cent to 85% of gross domestic product. What are the consequences of this, and what do we of course feel today? There are two kinds. First, the direct consequences of the external debt achieved. Potential and real. They're potential risks. The country's vulnerability to possible changes in interest rates, exchange rates, international capital flows. And the other ones are the real ones we feel, and that's the high cost of serving that debt. And in our analysis, we have indicated that, with the current trends, we, within a relatively short period of time and the amount of paid amounts, reached the height of the possible growth of the GDP. And what does that mean? First, it means a significant reduction in the country's own financial potential. And his second even greater dependence on foreign sources of funding. And we know that economic addiction is usually followed by some other addictions. Others are the indirect consequences of such a debt. First of all, constant pressures on course application. And basically, the CNB's been working all these three and a half years to stop the rabbit from getting stronger. And airing the arrival through foreign exchange interventions. However, with that Kuna intervention, it has actually applied in these three and a half years almost 10%. So much import is cheaper, and so much our exporters in kunas are actually less. Secondly, the dynamic growth of domestic loans at rates of over 18%, with the tendency to strengthen the kuna, has a natural negative impact on the balance of payments. The deficit isn't as high as it was in record 2002, but it's permanently high. On average, the deficit in the exchange of goods and services is 7 and a half percent of GDP and the current transaction deficit is 6 and a half percent of GDP. Of course, the deficit in the exchange of goods and services and directly negatively affects the slowdown of gross domestic product. Next, inflation. She's still short. She's still in control and she'll stay that way. But the figures are stubbornly saying that inflation is slowly but constantly accelerating. And from 1.7% in 2003 to 3.6 in 2005 and 4% in five months 2006. I've got the light on, which means I have to cut it short. Of course I'll do it, but let me do one thing. In these six years, I've been very rarely here. And that's why I'm not just talking about the annual report right now, but I want to point out the essence of the problem, and he's not since yesterday. That's why I started at the beginning of my term. And besides, this may be my last address. And it's not just inflation or consumer prices because of this foreign debt growth. There's even more inflation in the real estate area. Such is of course not shown in consumer prices. Except for the rent. And let's keep in mind that they've increased 32% in the last 12 months. Of course, all this appreciation, inflation worsens the balance of payments, and through it, they re-influence debt. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68309	Keep going, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68310	I'll be brief. Here is a set of interrelated problems in which the CNB seeks to act on limited instruments at its disposal... in this way, these instruments in a way that does not endanger the achievement of the fundamental economic objective, which is high sustainable economic growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, the CNB’s action is much wider than its legal objective. We try simultaneously to act on all these problems, not only to limit ourselves to inflation, as there are many lunches. If that were the case then it would be the simplest thing, let the course continue to acclaim, and not by printing money, we're actually dividing... We simply manage the form of minor evil. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How does the CNB actually work? In the system connected... It's hard to tell exactly what's causing it and what's the consequence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, as a monetary institution, the CNB first follows what is called a money trail. In this respect, it comes from the fact that the difference in the contributions made by banks in Croatia and the European Union is the basic driver of capital imports. This capital is created to turn into an aggressive loan offer that then fosters the demand for these loans. That is why our goal is to reduce the motivation for borrowing by raising foreign sources of funds. We have increased this already in 2003 with 35 per cent foreign exchange liabilities covered by liquid, foreign demand for banks, as well as mandatory registration of cash registers for the growth of plasma above 16%. With all the criticism from all over again. We gave up on these 16%, which is why in 2004, we introduced a borderline reserve, a direct form of capital restrictions on bank borrowing. By this we are the only ones in Europe and of course we experience that with criticism both in Brussels and elsewhere. We started the treasure with a 24% rate and then raised it to today's 55%. This measure is neither mild nor harmless even though banks are still trying not to look back... A billion and 500 million euro of bank funds were mobilised today, without interest and this measure also began to operate on the operations of banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a result of preserving their liquidity, they no longer transfer profits abroad, they increased interest rates to domestic deposits, stopped further relaxing the terms of credit approval. We hope that this will be enough to slow the expansion down in frames that will not have any further negative implications. ... and in this context, we have also made a decision today to increase the general provisions for fast-growing placements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If necessary, other measures will be taken and not only on the side of the passive but also on the bank's active side. But that's what I'd end up with. All that the CNB can do is refer exclusively to the sphere of money and credit supply, and the possibility of our impact on the demand sphere is only indirect and much weaker intensity. That is why we have on several occasions pointed out that the duty of concerted action of all aspects of economic policy... Here, forgive me for this long exposure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The submission of this report actually ends my term as governor of the CNB. I tried to do my job as best I could, and we made decisions autonomously, based on our own judgments, and we weren't anyone's exposure. As successful as we were, it's not my place to judge, but I don't think there was anything in my business to be ashamed of. Thank you for letting me do this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68311	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68312	Dear Mr. President and Governor Rohatinski himself admitted to hurting the Rules of Procedure because he presented a report on his work, meaning from 2000 to today, and the subject was the report for 2005. So Article 211 was injured in conjunction with Article 214(1), first indent, and I am holding this speech as a candidate for the new governor, and the report. ... Because we stick to the Rules of Procedure in Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So when he gave that speech, why didn't he say that there was a privatisation of banks, what didn't he say? I'd let him talk... But he didn't say the banks were sold out, that we didn't have our own banks, that banking was ruined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means a breach of the Rules of Procedure because Article 211 Mrs. Zdenka, please report for a pay phone on behalf of the HDZ Club and speak, but this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have no objection to the report, but it is not the item of the agenda of the report on Mr Rohatinski's term of office but the 2005 report. If we want, we can arrange for him to make his proposal for his candidacy again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68313	As part of the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2005 the Governor also presented his vision and one demonstration of the activities and functioning of the Croatian National Bank in the past period. It's consistent. ... You'll be fine, you'll talk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You should have a little bit of it, and regardless, you should have consideration. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP club, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68314	Thank you, Mr. President. First, let me say that the governor spoke well because in 2005 and this report cannot be evaluated or valorised without the essential elements that led to all this. We heard the governor about what happened and what happened today. He's started since 2000, so with low foreign exchange reserves, with the isolation of the population, with the banking crisis, with inflation, high liquidity. In that term, all relevant laws and on the National Bank are amended in line with the European needs of foreign exchange laws, payment laws, etc. and today we are in a completely different situation in which 2005 is to be observed. At the same time, I hope that it has been well seen that the Croatian National Bank has been competently leading an expansion-based monteran policy, which has always been considered impossible not to at the same time encourage high inflation and at the same time not to have a negative impact on a number of other components. But enough about it because we have a serious situation today, which this 2005 report also points to. The governor himself said that things stand with debt, with exports, and that inflation is speeding up. Allow Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament to ask two questions, one to you and one to the Government, with the impertinence of an ordinary representative. Monetary policy, or monetary sphere, is a form of real economy. The monetary economy relative to the real economy is the face and face of the same medal. I sympathise the personal small night debates or conversations that we had tonight on big topics such as real economy, of course sensitive issues related to budget and weak points, but it's not good that we separated it from what we're talking about. And that's why I don't understand it first, and that's why we've inserted some other reports here between the discussions on economics, the budget and monetary policy because it's all face and face. And why here, when we talk and talk about monetary policy, the government is not present and there is nothing to say about it, because it directly concerns the entire functioning of the national economy. So we didn't need this HINA report, and we had to organise this debate quite differently because it's about two different aspects of the same problem. And the second question is the government. Why does the Government have nothing to say about this Croatian National Bank report? True, she said she accepts it, but big questions are being asked here. And one of them is whether Croatia needs an alternative policy at the moment, including monetary policy, and economic policy, and all of this is strictly linked. There's nothing the government can say about that and all of us together and here in the Parliament have masterly separated each other in a debate. I'll end up saying what I think about it. By the way, here, among other things, is what we've been saying tonight by the governors, which is that we're not successfully dealing with the challenges we're facing, but I'm not going to get into it. Mr. President, when we talk about this 2005 report, about monetary policy and the National Bank, we're actually talking about four questions. It is one question of growth in placements and loans, and how the Croatian National Bank and monetary policy supply the economy and population and how they oil the mechanism, what is the blood flow of the real sector. The second question is what is the situation regarding the exchange rate, foreign reserve and the total matter of relations related to the relationship between domestic and foreign so-called essential components. The third question is debt and the fourth question is balance of payments and liquidity, and that is the content of this report. I'll tell you about anything. The growth of credit ratings in Croatia and what the National Bank does in this respect has an unequivocal feature of expansion monetary policy with average annual growth, the governor said of 17% and in fact it seems to me that this growth is over 20% and about 22%, respectively. This raises the question of what, and then about borrowing, the role of foreign banks or our banks, the withdrawal of capital from abroad can be made by the Croatian National Bank. In the current situation, the Croatian National Bank can continue to press on only to act on the bank's activity and on the side of the activity, not on the passive where it should operate. And now if the National Bank continues to act, it will act very harshly. Almost 1/3 of liquidity growth is sterilised automatically by these procedures. The opportunities of the Croatian National Bank in this regard are becoming quite limited. After all, we have reduced the mandatory reserve in Croatia from 29.5% in 2000 when I came to the Ministry of Finance to the current 17 but this is still twice as much as the reserve in the new members of the European Union and the old members of the European Union have a mandatory reserve of 2% to 3% and ours is 17%. A one-point reduction produces 2 billion kunas of monetary aggregates annually. That problems in the real sphere are being solved through this monetary channel and instruments are still very limited. How to limit money from abroad and the implications of domestic emissions, how foreign banks behave, what about their own financial development lever and banking, etc., these are all issues that the Croatian National Bank cannot solve further. At the same time, appreciation pressures are growing, and the monetary situation in this regard can still be controlled, but it is not certain how long they do not make more positive interventions in economic policy and perhaps also in monetary policy. And that is what I stress for including the first question that is important and concerns the placement of the loan of which the Croatian National Bank of course takes care of. Another important issue is the course and relations to abroad. Now, of course, it's a long series of appreciation pressures. The Croatian National Bank has placed a course on the market but it is all expensive under specific circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll speak plainly here. Given what we said last night about budget, debt, unemployment, etc. The government seems to deny the little monetary independence and the draft law on amendments and additions to the National Bank Act that we received in the procedure requires special attention. At this point, I would simply say the following. It could be recommended to the Croatian National Bank and also to the government to answer further subtle monetary analyses on two issues. How do we use monetary independence more successfully while we still have something small? In a situation where we don't have great maneuvering opportunities for more significant turns. And the second question, whether or not, in which relations to correct the parities of our parameters and some foreign ones in conditions where our productivity is 5 times lower and our exports are inescapable, which directly affects exchange rate issues and overall concepts of monetary policies or areas in relation to other economic policies. The issue is raised openly at this time to consider the alternative option of action in the field of individual economic policies and in the monetary sector. The third important issue that this report is dealing with is the foreign debt issue. The truth must be told by the governor and the Croatian National Bank is more prone and milder than the Government of Ivo Sanader than it was with Racanov, but it can have an understanding of that. However, I must say: in Croatia the problem is the total debt and that is the Croatian problem. It's not Croatian, it's not just a government debt. That's what everybody's gonna tell you, including the IMF. And that debt has grown in the last few years to unacceptable proportions. It has grown in the last two years and two months from about 19 billion to 27 billion. It has grown in the last two years and two months as much as in Racan's almost term. And what happened about that, too? A previously solved problem of impossible indivisibility, a road has been made for 3 years to Split, which has been planned for centuries and has been refurbished at the same time. 23 billion kuna is invested in rebuilding houses and so on. We now have a huge increase in debt, and a very questionable situation relative to the state of the economy and as far away as possible. At the same time, the government debt increased. That's what I quoted last night. But at the same time, the country is in deep debt on the domestic market. Sucking out what the domestic market would pull. Domestic companies and others. It's all a very questionable situation, especially if we keep in mind that we're getting closer to the cost of the interest we pay in 2007 already becomes almost nearly as much of the payoffs, what is the increase in what we create in the country on the basis of economic growth if it's about 4 to 5%, and the question is whether it will be. Now it's a billion-to-billion-to-200 relationship issue. Then all parameters change significantly in the state. And an examination of her quotation and internal financial situation and everything else. And that's why I'm saying it's urgent to consider, and that's why I'm sorry that the government sees it all on the side as if the Croatian National Bank can fix it. Other economic policies as well as an additional new monetary policy option. In that regard, I'd say inflation puts a little pressure on it. That there's one big fear of inflation in the world. That the American "fed" has been constantly raising interest rates for the past two years in the fear of inflation. That they were 2%. That they've grown over 4%. That every two months they raise them, and the growth of interest rates in the world and we know what it can mean for all our internal parameters and relationships. I also want to say something about the behaviour of foreign banks in Croatia. Foreign banks have the first interest in their capital and their owners. They have a further interest in their national economies, their corporations and their exporters in Croatia. But they behave normally, they trade money, and they can't be blamed for what they do in Croatia, but we should be blamed for what we don't do about all this by editing the entire monetary sphere. I mean, we can service our debt today and our relationship to foreign payments, but no one can say in this country today that they know we'll be able to do it tomorrow. Therefore, this requires special care and, of course, consistent measures and procedures. The government believes it is long and that these problems are the problem of the Croatian National Bank. And that it should bring about the order of foreign banks and everything else and that the debt problem will be resolved. It's completely wrong and it won't lead to any results. Already at this moment, the number of objectives is greater than the number of instruments and variables and by no algebra is more impossible to achieve success in what only the Croatian National Bank can. In connection with this, of course, the issue of exports which remains weak. The foreign exchange deficit last year was $9.7 billion as never. In the first half of this year, it increased dramatically. It warns all this together that there should be additional options and solutions to be offered here in relation to the overall economic policy and then development policy. There's no time to wait. And besides, what we're talking about here. The problem of debt and so on is not at all the problem the government reacted to or covered by its kind of strategic framework for Croatia's development. And to conclude, here's Mr. President, that's all. The government simply has no opinion on this analysis and has no views or suggestions on what to do in politics in general and also monetary because it simply avoids further action and mistakes here. We're simply waiting in a stable way for the election. What are two, three, four years of Croatian eternity in Croatia? And in the meantime, the issue with Croatia, Croatia's "Quo vadis", where are we going? We are full of mouths to go to the European Union. In Europe, no one will solve these problems that I am talking about or take care of our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68315	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68316	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Croatian National Bank, the distinguished gentlemen of the parliament. Real growth is small. Here in 2004 was 3.8%, 2005. 4.3%. The governor's mention of this year's 4.7%. If I've heard him correctly. In 2002 it was 5.6%, in 2003 it was 5.3%. I don't want to mystify 2000 on purpose. Why? Because in 1999 we had negative growth, which is not surprising because of the NATO coup on the then SR Yugoslavia, which was definitely lost in 1999 in a touristic way. We lost one season. If something similar had happened today and 2006 it would have been a clearly lost year and the nation would be on its knees. However, economic growth has slowed down whatever Mr Rohatinski is saying. Why? Now, did he, from previous years, rest first of all at low levels, on huge external loans. So on an enormous debt or really a Croatian economy after Croatia got out of isolation it so needed a gift. So in 2002 and 2003, there were two basic reasons why the economy lived. So Croatia has come out of this political isolation, and that is why it is important for Croatia and today the European Union to come to the market that we have left to others because of our policy and because of the fact that from 2000 to today, Croatia is in charge of a good 20 billion dollars on the basis of a new debt. That I am right to bear witness to the fact that a personal amount of more than $20 billion, that I am in the first place witnessing the fact that personal consumption makes the biggest contribution to gross social product growth in 2005 and that is 2.1 percentage points or almost 50%. This, however, was lower in 2005 due to slower wage growth than in 2004. So what characterizes this report and in 2005 is the first slowdown in wage growth and the slowdown in pension growth. So in 2005, it was harder than in 2004, and in 2004 it was harder than in 2003. It is a shame that in 2005, wages grew by only 1.7% and by 3.6% in 2004. What saved us from growing personal consumption faster is clearly personal loans. And as time goes by, citizens will be increasingly difficult to live, more and more in charge, the smaller share of domestic goods will be on our market if something spectacular doesn't happen in the coming years, in the years ahead. But it's neither this policy of this government nor it can be a policy of 4x4 means drive on all four wheels as someone else offers. I'll pull this at one parallel between the County of Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County. Unemployment at this point in Istria is below 5%. We have 5600 unemployed, looking for 5950 seasonal workers. It's clear that everyone can't waitress, that everyone can't wear that plate, that they can't work in a store, etc. The coastal-goran County has over 11 per cent unemployment. Exports to Istria County, which has 100,000 inhabitants, are less than a billion dollars in the Primorje-Goranian region, in 450m dollars. The coverage of exports to Istria is 90%, in Primorje-goranska on the Croatian average about 40%. Or Istrian tourism in 2005 won 7 times more or 700% more than all remaining Croatian tourism combined, as the Primorje-Gorski County and Dalmatia and continental tourism will say, etc. and I argue that there are also investments in Istria that are bigger than the whole of the Adriatic, and that is why I say that Croatia needs to be trained, but before that, I need to create a way to express the media climate for investment because logic is simple. Either the capital will come to Croatia or the citizens of Croatia will go around the world after that capital. This country should be relieved, i.e. by an investor of administrative barriers, because at any time in Croatia it is blocked between one and two billion euros of potential money from which the state could immediately arrive at night between 250m and 500m euros and finally need to be restrained in some way by this legislative hyper production, a legislative offensive, and not by day changing normative principles, until, for example, in 2004, it could be built 70m from the coast, and then no longer be possible. Well, those who bought it today are coming down to them, etc. etc. That's what I'm saying because of the fact that we've become a land of normative chaos without a real, good investment example. Unemployment in 2005 saw something lower, but what was the point. Employment increases by 0.8% but at the Croatian Pension Insurance Office by only 0.5% or 0.3 percentage points less. That's the point. So, pressure is growing on this Mirovinski Fund, but to touch now the Croatian National Bank and, let's say, exchange rates. The overindebted Croatian citizens are eligible for such a course, i.e. what I would say is a stronger kuna lower euro. Kuna, on the other hand, is unique in the world, I guess, in a country where nothing is done but only exports are growing from year to year. In 2004, one euro, one kuna was 1:7.67. In 2005, one euro is 7.38 kuna. Today is 1 euro 7.26 kuna. But you know what that means? That all exporters are, and that's why I'm mentioning that billion dollars in exports that have an Istrian economy plus about 3 billion in tourism. Thus, all exporters from Buzet’s “Cimos” to“ Oilers, ” “3. May", I do not know the Split “Skvera” etc. stay due to this policy without profit because only at the 2004 course in 2005, they lost 3.9%, and 3.9% is a decent profit, and now those who combine the domestic export market still give, let them somehow survive. But those who work 100 percent for export only and there are those who don't know “Brodogradja”, “Cimos” from Buzet, which exports 60m euros to such monetary policy, are well-needed. Understandably, I am not in favour of the drastic growth of the euro, because the nation is too indebted to us. But neither this measure nor this policy is good that the de facto of this policy is the most profitable again by the banks that are once again owned by foreign governments. Governor Rohatinski said according to the report that the external debt is 25.5 billion kuna, that on today it is 25.5 billion euros. On today, the external debt is 27 billion euros. That's $33 billion somewhere. It's 27.6 percent waste in the country, and we see that a year ago, there were even 33.3% in that mass. In a year, he grew ino by 12.1%. It's 82.5%. So in 2006 on today, it may be more than 22.5% today and in 4 years, I am convinced that it will be over 100%, and therefore, in the year until the election, it shouldn't be unreal. I said three years ago here when it was the current morning that if something radically doesn't change, the government will end up with an external debt of $37,38 billion. I'm sure we'll reach 40 billion dollars next year because pensions need to be paid back. Privatisation didn't follow, and living on credit again is clear to have to. And there you can see now I'd say the insanity of selling rescheduled banks. Those who were not rehabilitated, of course, should have been privatized. But I am being resold to claim that it was the greatest crime against this people, although new owners of the state should be recognised, they spared permanent interventions, the exception was 2001. The Rijeka Bank. Banks no longer end up in bankruptcy, but due to uncontrolled imports, it is not said that the state will eventually not end up in bankruptcy as they previously ended up in bankruptcy of our bank. And that's why gentlemen should put their heads together. It's supposed to attract investment. But we're just not going to do anything, so maybe we'll do something with dignity. Now, look at the growth of the company. It grows at a rate of 9%. Citizens at a rate of 20.3%. It is good that housing loans grow at the rate of 2005, 2004 by 28.8%, which will say that the times have passed when in this country as before 1990, which could certainly have been so easy to get to the apartment. Today, that apartment is to be bought. The apartment is a capital matter. Last year, the banks went out for six billion kuna. In the first quarter of 2006 for another 6.3 billion kuna. And that's why it's not unrealistic to expect that at the end of this year we'll be somewhere at $35 billion in external debt. Let's face it, that's where the oil's gonna play its role. I'm glad to have these tables in this report. In the first month of 2004, oil was 31, 32 dollars. 2005. In the Bible, the Bible’s Viewpoints of God’s Word, 2 / 15 63 dollars, today it's 72 to 73 dollars, which will say it's more expensive for 40 bucks. The data on the industry suggests that opportunities are stabilizing, although we probably wouldn't have had one of these revisions of conversion. Why? Because we all know that those who have acquired something in it have won without one of their own kunas, and then that is unfair, and that should be revised. However, there is clear because Croatia has no Putin nothing will happen. In construction, page 25, we again record a lower growth in the ego in 2004 precisely due to the decline of large investments. But here in 2006 the state thought I'd be a cynical way not to have a negative trend from 2005, so it all started to collapse along the coast at sixteen. So when he's not able to build something, then he crashes, but it's important to do something. I'm kidding. There's something going on with tourism, too. Gentlemen, I couldn't believe it when I read that data. The number of guests from our most prestigious markets declines compared to 2001. So in 2001 there were more Germans, more Italians, more Austrians, more Czechs than in 2005. Yeah, we had more nights in 2005, because people came from other markets. But it's interesting that our number of Germans, the Czechs, the Slovenians, page 27, is dropping, which is certainly not good. We've got a little more guests, and it's going to be like this this year, but we're also losing some traditional guests. For the end, there's a bank merger. In 2003, we had 41 banks, 2004. 37, 2005. 34 and that's definitely good. Bank assets owned by domestic shareholders were 5.6% in 2003, 2005. 5.3%, so it's going down. Banks owned by the state remained 3.4, 3.4%. Banks owned by foreigners increased their assets from 91.3% to 91.3%. Of this activity, the Italians control 44.6%, Austria 43.3%. It's 87.9%, the rest of the waste on Germans, Hungarians, etc. The total active banking system is 260 billion kuna. 91% of what falls on foreigners is 240 billion kuna. It's an active sign of foreign banks. These are almost 2 and a half of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is the entire annual gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. And it's sold for even 10 billion kuna. And it's really a national betrayal. For neither 10 billion kuna until 2001, the net is now available for the 10 billion with an asset of 240 billion kuna. And that's the point of this report. And it's a disaster. 56.8% of these assets are only loans. It's cca 140 million kuna, etc. The profits made by banks before tax are 4 billion kunas. The river was sold below 10 billion, maybe about 8.9 billion kuna. And those are the largest ones for about 14 to 15 billion kunas. For 14 billion rescheduled, they were sold for 7 billion kuna. And the annual profit in 2, 3 years will be as much as we have left the entire banking system in the hands of foreigners. And no one will answer, and that's what we're still growing here and that uncontrollable import. But that's for a second chance. This is a commendable report, due to a review of the Croatian economy. It's neither spectacularly good nor critical. But the bottom line is that everything in this country is going by the inert, that maybe banks can today without politics. The question is whether or not they'll be there by the time. That everyone who thinks it's possible to make some spectacular changes overnight is wrong. And we clearly support the report. But you also have to imagine what in this country with all of us is going to be three, four years from now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68317	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, a respected representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go. And before that, it was a correction to the false precept, Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68318	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative of the Croatian National Bank. Comrade Cain, you have made one incorrect claim and a very dangerous thesis for Croatia in general. You claim that such a low rate and such monetary policy and overall economic policy most corresponds to Croatian citizens. It's very dangerous. The governor of the National Bank has just said that this policy corresponds to the banks. They import cheap foreign money, they place it on domestic citizens to buy goods from their domestic producers. This is how our citizens pay interest and the price of goods in their countries. Our citizens are really concerned about their future, if this policy continues. And if they continue with the thesis that this is their interest then their future is truly questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68319	Honorable representative of Šima Prtnječa, Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68320	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report from the CNB for 2005. Of course it can be accessed in different ways. I will try, given the time, and also the content that is in it, to try to fly over that report in a short time across all areas, but starting from the fundamental role of the CNB defined by law and try to avoid a trap of theoreticalisation especially of the economic role of the CNB and perhaps the measures it takes within the calendar year that the report covers. I only point out that the fundamental role of the CNB is bank control, clearly from the post-independence and through its state of affairs within the country, price control, inflation control, etc. Therefore, if we go from this, and it has already been expressed in some way doubts that this CNB report is going to the government, so it is strange that the IMF report or some others are also going to the government's hands, as well as a recent report when an improved financial rating of Croatia is published, obviously, and this is going to the government again. So I'd say it goes to the Croatian state and the Croatian people, regardless of who's bringing it out. I also go, given the so-called concern and opinion, from the final assessment of the independent audit that audited the business of the CNB which in short said... who briefly says this report is real and objective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let us see what this report realistically and objectively shows during this period. Once again, the macroeconomic environment in Europe has been processed, especially in those that have an impact on our economy, the same macroeconomic environment within the country has been processed and it has conditioned the situation and the measures the CNB took in the previous year. I now single out only one piece of information, one fact that this report shows that the decline in social gross product in the world in the past year is 0.5%, that it has dropped to 1.3% in the European Union. I particularly point out that the lowest growth rate in Europe has been recorded by Germany, and the stagnation of a real gross social product has been recorded in Italy. Why am I pointing that out? So Germany, Italy, Slovenia and Austria are the main foreign trade partners of Croatia and they withdraw most of the goods, and also in tourism make up the most of the services, i.e. a positive opportunity in foreign exchange... Here are just some data I want to highlight from this report, as well as other significant negative or external trade factor, that's the price of oil. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The price of oil increased by almost 31% in 2004, at a rate of almost 45% in 2005. Such a negative impact on producer prices both in Europe, our main partner and in Croatia on producer prices and through direct influence on inflation, of course, are the two fundamental negative impacts we have had and which we can hardly or cannot control at all. With the economic growth of the macroeconomic environment within the state, we have already heard all variations in economic growth, but I am stressing the growth rate of 4.3% and the minimum of the fundamental characteristics of this period. Investments are starting to grow, the state is lagging behind. The happiness of private investment is growing, I cannot now enter into an analysis individually of what these private investments include, but obviously, part of the impact also has an increase in capital, i.e. the capital of banks to companies and companies that then invest some of that capital in lasting goods and we hope that will contribute to the effects of the next time. Personal consumption is also growing. She may have degressive growth, but she is the strongest generator of social gross product growth. Does it stem from the increased lending of the population? I also point out two data that regardless of small, but the increase in real income in the last year was at 1.7%. So, real income, not nominal. Also, the increase in pensions in the last year was 4.4% no matter how much it affected domestic demand and domestic consumption through such an impact, not moving further into the models. Therefore, personal consumption is the main generator and it will continue to be in the coming time. In investments, I repeat, the state has made modest contributions, slightly greater minimum compared to 2004, but still a certain increase, and the biggest increase I say has recorded private investments in the past year, which we also consider a positive phenomenon. When it comes to state spending, it's important to control employment and the cost of expenditure, and that those expenditures through capital goods actually make such positive effects that we have. In production very briefly. We've heard it before, but a few more data that I repeat that report, which has been said to be realistic and objective, says that industrial production has grown somewhere at a rate of 5.1%, but the fact is it's the largest since 2003. Therefore, it may not be enough and certainly not enough for what we want, but on the other hand it records the highest growth rate in the last few years. In industrial production, the structure dictates the situation we have. The processing industry accounts for 80% over or almost 80% of total industrial production and such a processing industry grows at a rate of about 6.6%, which then gives a positive contribution to the movements we have. At the store. The trade has been stabilised in some way, but with its constant fall also sometime since 2002, so every year, gradually it has been stabilised in that store, yesterday I said to the budget and today I point out that we had a concern for the sale of cars, and now in retail they record a significant increase and all that fear of excise duty, i.e. from the old rolling stock that some have said clearly today that there is no sign of it, and that cars obviously make up the highest import rate because Croatia does not produce cars, but also what is related to cars, and that is oil, oil derivatives, the rest that you use and cars also makes a significant growth rate this year. In tourism, the negative impact of foreign trade trade on tourism balances this situation and keeps it realistically in a situation that could be much worse, but given the possibility of tourism, there is a much greater chance and tourism is growing at also a total rate somewhere from 7.6. But nominally somewhere around 9 billion, its contribution was to the debalancing of goods, i.e. goods and services in foreign trade. From the labour market with all the problems we have and far from the desired employment rate, unemployment has been the lowest in the last 6 years regardless of what needs we have in this area. At prices and courses we can say and I say the legal role of the CNB is precisely in this area that it is stabilised and prices and courses and that they have absolutely positive tendencies in the period to come. Inflation, external or so-called. the imported inflation through those elements that it affects we have already said in the debalancing of goods and through those domestic negative and positive factors it retains at that level which is today but as inflation is growing in European countries it is a growth ratio somewhere closer so we hold that inflation if a shows now a trend of control or stabilisation that it would certainly be necessary that it is lower but shows that this trend of growth is nevertheless restrained, so that CNB has performed its function through that part, through the elements that enter. Negative movements or impact on inflation especially in the previous year, I point out only a few data that the increase in some food products of clothing and shoes and part of consumer prices, the increase in electricity, the price of electricity, I point out for the reasons that we are coming next in the coming years approaching at the price, and I fear that this impact may be something already in the coming time. Also, the influence of oil and derivatives especially utility services. Communal services in cities that are the fastest growing under their control and have a negative impact on inflation and on the overall price rise in society. The issue, of course, is now an instrumentation on how to act on it and how to move on. We see stories about the appreciation of the course on the one hand that there is a great appreciation already this year, at the beginning of the previous year, and especially the trends in this year and on the other, the stories of what it means to be an appreciation of the kuna and such a strong kuna. I think how many economists so likely to be theoretical models that we could study, but such an appreciation and the relationship of the kuna and the euro at this time also influences the relationship between foreign trade and trade, so through this way this control or stabilisation now, in some ways and in this sector, makes positive shifts. With monetary policy all the stories about what we can do, did the CNB take enough action to take. In particular, I only point out some of the main ones, but we can't process everyone else, of course. I am particularly emphasising these measures on the border reserves that have been raised to 55% and just commenting in this sector. It is obvious that these measures have not been granted either, and the governor has said that only now is the possible effects of such measures and the amount now deposited without interest. It also raises doubts as to whether these measures are sufficient but this measure has nevertheless made certain restraints, withdrawals or debts of banks abroad and also placements, because if the state has defined itself in monetary policy in the previous year that, with foreign debt, due to all these risks of such foreign debt under domestic stabilisation and, on the other hand, on the domestic market, it is quite clear that there is a growing debt on the domestic market but also in cash, but also in that other part of the cash-free market which has also not reached the desired level. Thus, we still have the opportunity to move in that area. The impact of banks' liquidity on the so-called banks has proved to be quite good for the daily ones. the weekly repo auctions that have also contributed to the stabilisation of liquidity, especially here banking, of course in a series and other measures taken. For the first time in the open market in the last year, we can say for the first time all year has also given certain positive effects so that the liquidity of banks last year recorded quite a solid level. Through the plasma banks, we've heard all the stories. The banks import capital first, of course, so they don't come here if they don't have their own interests, but the CNB and other monetary measures and even fiscal policies need to respond to that situation. In this sense, banks continue to pressure consumers' credits in all segments, and a special growth rate has been recorded in these housing loans, which is then potentially leading to that increase in private investment in housing and other sectors, so that the impact remains significant. And in this year, the trend of these loans and plasma growth continues, but it is looking forward to growing the footing rate to finally the companies, which should then be for effect and should have a later effect because the investment is lastingly good and not in consumption, so the results should be later on with the effects that will occur and give results in that time. In the capital markets, bonds have increased by as much as 40%, shares by as much as 75%, but this is neither close to the desired nor possible on the Croatian financial market. In the balance sheet CNB is also trying to control its own measures through all the instruments available and we think that at this point it makes maximum. In that structure, I'm just going to say two, three figures, that we had the highest rate of growth in the ino of debt in 2002. In 2002, it became a turning point in the ino of debt and in the debalancing of goods, i.e. through external trade through goods and services, and that it grew aggressively. In 2004, it was halved, and then it fell again from about 15 to 12 and some percent. It is that it is high, but all the stories about us not being in debt, and even the state, even though its participation is mostly banks, in the second place businesses and others, and third place states. Thus, such an earlier high debt must also be served through this instrumentation. It's one of the reasons why it's not easy to make a decision and say we interrupt today's assignment inside it and it's hard to get into discussions and controversy. In the banking sector, it seems to me that the government is preparing and will simply need to take action and pass an emergency law on lissing but probably consider the status of domestic banks and domestic bankers. Not just think about it. We were also waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision on the status of the Croatian Bank. The Constitutional Court's decision had to wait. So now we're opening up that possibility, and I think that's where we're going to make it easier to reach a consensus to make a move on that. Here, all in all such a report HDZ supports and I don't think there's anything particularly controversial within that report, starting from the final repeat position... that this report is real and objective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68321	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the incorrect conclusion of the HDZ Club's representatives is that as many economists as there are theories about the depreciation of the kuna. It is a relativisation of the assessment given by the governor of the Croatian National Bank and it is in favour of the so-called Croatian banks, because such a course of kuna has no need to invest in Croatian production. What's that reason to so-called. Croatian banks invest in Croatian production when they can place the money of their domestic banks and sell their goods, their countries of their domestic banks. So we can re-trace the Croatian National Bank governor's grades, but if it were scientific and national, then the profits for the commission would not have sold all Croatian banks, and even now they say that the exchange rate of kuna is not important for investing in Croatian production.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68323	Honorable representative Ante Markov, club representative of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68324	Dear Mr. President, representative of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. I will say from independence to today almost all administrations of the Croatian National Bank have not run enough sovereign monetary policy. They didn't run enough monetary policy, so I'll dare say a little harshly that they weren't even enough Croatian policies. Of course, this probably won't cause applause, but these are unfortunately the facts that we can find in this report. And in that part, and in that part, this report is true. The facts are just talking about the state we're in. Because you know if you have 80 billion kuna and over EUR 9 billion on the lager, and if the guardian of that value allows the economy to be Croatian in that state, then relations are not good. Then the thesis falls that Croatia's macroeconomic policy and position is excellent. Of course, every country must also try to ensure the highest degree of independence of monetary policy and as little dependence on competitive countries as possible. These are normal positions that every country must have. Of course, all countries take care of these waters and international institutions that directly and indirectly affect the sovereignty, the monetary sovereignty of each country. It's the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Those institutions that in nature represent the interest of large multinational companies and that is quite true and cannot be denied. Of course, every country struggles that the monetary colonization process is not done until the end. That the tools at the disposal of politics, the government, the country be as strong as possible and that it can resist these attempts, the natural attempts of those who want to monetaryally colonise another country. They naturally want to colonize it so they can have their economic interests in that space. Of course, almost literally and almost always the biggest losers of exactly such financial colonizations are national entrepreneurs, state-owned enterprises, but unfortunately older employees who can hardly find their jobs anywhere after the end of work in such and these companies. Such fate, of course, has, given the circumstances and such policy-making has also taken place in Croatia. Of course, if we go back to the fact that budget expenditures can only be covered by budget revenues and the difference, the deficit that we can solve in two ways. The first is to print money and, of course, cause inflation. Of course that won't allow us the IMF and then go to another variant that the IMF will allow, which is to take credit abroad. Of course, by taking foreign payment funds to cover the deficits in the Budget will create a normal mechanism to bring down the price of foreign exchanges on the market, thus increasing imports of foreign goods and thus the impact of the decline of domestic production, which is quite evident and what can be seen on the Croatian example. Of course, a large supply of foreign exchanges will precisely lead to this, and if there are no significant measures of fiscal and incentive policy, that is, the very principles that make up the elementary, monetary, financial sovereignty of a country, which are development banks, business banks, stock reserves, tax institutions, financial investigative bodies that should be the guardians of what I called one country's sovereignty. Of course, when such mechanisms fail, they fail when you do not have such aspects of positioning development policy, then there is a suffocation of the real sector. The financial sector, due to the great interest of financial capital, is extremely strong on one side, achieves phenomenal results and that is correct. We have succeeded in the financial sector since 2000, raised to a strong level. We managed to create a strong financial sector, but at the second level the real sector was not somehow followed by that financial sector. They've scheduled the bypasses of this system, of this society. They have scheduled on one side and development policies and development banks and agro banks and all those banks that need to be monitored by society in their needs. Who were supposed to bridge that addiction that controlled and controlled foreign banks. Unfortunately, this did not happen and the measures of its own domestic economy and the real sector did not, unfortunately, happen. Of course, we can't all load into the basket of the Croatian National Bank, but the politics run by the Croatian National Bank together with each government is crucial to these disorders that have occurred. I will try very vividly to describe from the introduction of the kuna itself as a means of payment. From that moment on, the regulation of the foreign exchange market has actually been left to foreign banks that have naturally taken loans from their parent banks, they have placed them primarily into consumer loans. Of course, we make money on interest and differences while also placing our goods, which is quite appropriate and what we would do, of course. Of course, the result is the decline of the Croatian economy, the huge increase in the debt and the state, as well as the population, and that is why one newer date that does not naturally contribute to the Croatian population is that Croats are in charge of more than 2300 euros per head and that they are the most in charge of the nation in Europe. I repeat the most responsible nation in Europe according to the latest statistical report. Of course that's not good. This says that total debt has become almost the kind of drug that has to be taken as any drug if you want to stay still and if we know that any drug and any such drug definitely leads to destruction. What is very important is to highlight and say a few words about business banks. Business banks are now owned by foreigners, almost over 95% are foreign-owned. This procedure began in '91. Of course, under the IMF and the World Bank's patronage, we still have the situation we have today. But it is interesting that the beginning of the transformation to say financial institutions also began the process of shutting down strong Croatian industrial strongholds. So parallel to the transformation of financial institutions and their transition into foreign ownership, one of them started whether or not designed, whether I do not know now but again the facts say that there has been a shut-down of the work of coke in Bakr, the electrodes and ferro alloy factories in Sibenik, the factory “Dalmacija” in Dugi Rat, Željezare “Siska”, Đure Đakovića, “unity” in Zagreb and a hundred and a hundred smaller companies. And reportedly, debt reprogrammed by the IMF was reprogrammed. Of course, such a position does not give much opportunity for an alternative, I mean a Croatian alternative but it does. She's got it and she's got to be. Of course, the key question arises when it is completely controlled by this report that is simply what it is. It's about numbers that are. Anyone can interpret them one way or another. Someone can translate them into a language that's acceptable to him. Others may say that it is not acceptable at all, and citizens know what they think about it because they, by their own calculation of their opportunities, their potential, their credit responsibilities, their incomes, they know best where they are. So, first of all, the question is what to do in this situation, what to do in order to restore monetary sovereignty. What do you need? New banks need to be established. With what do you start new banks? Well, we already have most of the financial resources, deposits from citizens and legal persons, and payment traffic from businesses. They need to be moved to a newly established bank that can be called what it will be called, but should be right on the line of defence from further strengthening exposure to foreign banks, further on the line of reduction of exposure to the value of foreign assets, at a further link to protecting the value of the Croatian economy. Of course, it is also necessary to establish strong control services that will monitor what is happening on the banking market in order not to repeat the negative experiences that have occurred in this country. Also, it is necessary, and this is what we are, I think there are now three years or more, and the government has also been tasked with amending and supplementing the Banks Act to reintroduce small financial institutions, institutions that will be able to operate within the so-called. The smaller banks that there are everywhere in the world that will be set up to be interestingly or groupically, but that will be in the surveillance system as well as the other banks. Of course, the state also has its potential within the 80 billion kunas that can find its depositary place in a newly established Croatian bank that can thus play the role that sovereign monetary policy has in each country, which is to service its citizens in the right way, but also to serve the needs of the Croatian economy in the same way. But it would also be necessary in every county and in all major cities to establish such small banks, and founders should be small entrepreneurs in cooperation with local self-government. However, in order not to overly influence the work of such banks, all municipalities and cities and counties should not have more than 15% of the stakes in any bank. Attracting local self-government and administration deposits, but also small entrepreneurship, would have the potential to lend new entrepreneurship projects, as well as to encourage domestic production. France has between 3,000 and 4,000 small banks holding 45% of the deposits on their own, and thanks to which, even in 1929, the major financial crisis did not significantly undermine French financial sovereignty. What does that mean? This means that there are alternatives that can be rightly called Croatian. That there are alternatives to which the brakes cannot be found in the European Union directives, because the European Union is now acting in terms of defending its national interests and the sovereignty of its country exactly as it is acting. Therefore, there are alternatives that are good. There are steps we can do, there are ways we can work. By supporting and praising this report as excellent then we should also find that the position of the total Croatian economy is indeed excellent. All those who think the situation in Croatian society and the Croatian economy is excellent should support such excellence. We at the HSS Club hold that there are no such excellences, but that there are opportunities, that the alternatives especially of those of Croatia have and that it stands in our reach only needs to be caught. If you don't catch her today, we'll catch her tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68325	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, a respected representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68326	I thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct my colleague Markov in the section where he was talking about setting up new banks. I think it would be more important to talk about demonolysing the financial market in Croatia. This is just one of the forms. Today we are practically witnessing a monopolized financial market in Croatia, or even worse than we can call even worse than monopolized, it is... Because we have the presence of two financial lobbys, two sides of the financial lobby that dictate the product, the financial products that provide for citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If, for example, only the assets of this country or the funds of the units of local self-government were to pass, God would not give through some other banks or eventually appear on the financial market of another bank, France or Belgium, and not only from Italy and Austria. The market would be much richer, and competitiveness would be much higher on it. There's no competition today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68327	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68328	Dear Sir... the speaker has been turned off. Dear colleague Markov claimed that this policy began in '91. For years. That's not true. This policy begins with a stabilising programme from '93. In the years, and then important economic and political people are the same as today, the same people as today claimed that selling the Croatian banking sector will seriousise the banking sector, that importing foreign goods will control the price of our domestic goods. They didn't or did, they could discuss it now, they didn't, or they didn't want to bring Croatia financially into the colonial position. But she's really here right now. But we don't change the policy that was pushed in '93. years, than we keep driving on the same tracks, and citizens are getting worse and worse. It's just that the pronunciation of that policy is changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68329	And third, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68330	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's to correct an incorrect assumption that companies have failed on an IMF order. Well, I don't think that's true. Most of our big firms have never managed to get over the clinical eastern markets, and we really couldn't get past the safe placement of goods, and with the ageing technology, we couldn't really go west. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68331	12.36 hours have elapsed to report a ten-minute hearing. HSP representative club, respected representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68332	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, as well as Mr. Governor in his speech on the report on the work of the Croatian National Bank for the past year, practically spoke about the overall work of the term of office of this current Croatian National Bank, which is practically based on the previous work of the previous governors and the CNB, then we, in the name of the Croatian Party club, will say a few words about our assessments, about how and how we are watching the work, the former work of the Croatian National Bank, and its role in Croatia, as our distinguished colleague Leko has now said since '93. The year one starts... which lasts to this day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, I would like to point out that even to the criticism I'm about to raise, the questions I'm going to ask, we have no real intention of going on ad-hominem, to the man, whether Mr. Rohatinski is going to be a new candidate for governor or not, and we don't make any judgments about or against him as a candidate for the new governor. But we're actually going to ask more questions about the responsibility of former governors, especially the current management of the last six years. Because the report we received can be professionally accepted, but you can always read it to be really part of a positive campaign, but if you can read it in a different way. So we believe that there are a few things that need to be highlighted and perhaps asked as questions to the representatives of the CNB. We have kept at the Croatian party's right club during that period, which the governor spoke of, in the last 6 years, that the CNB has also achieved some poor results. So in the report itself, then in the speech after six years, it was spoken in a dictionary that practically anyone could sign that it was very good if it were all that way. But here I am asking some findings and some questions that deserve at least the representatives' answers, primarily the Croatian National Bank and perhaps the Croatian Government. Unfortunately, no one is present at this time. According to our data, losses have been achieved in this business in these 6 years in business from 2000 to 2006. According to the revised data for the current management mandate, about 1.1 billion kuna, or 150m euros, is the highest negative financial result of all Croatian state institutions. Losses were made in the business of foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia, which are entrusted to the management of the Croatian National Bank. There was no word in Mr Rohatinski's report on the collapse of the Rijeka Bank, which is a loss of approximately 87m euros. What the CNB has been trying to fence, although it is legally the only one who cares about orderly business, has all the powers in the supervision and control of banks. There were no words, and here we are asking a question, about giving legal consent to the fictitious sale and privatisation of the largest Croatian bank, Zagreb Bank, which turned overnight from the state bank into a private bank, although at least according to information, you will explain whether or not it was so, even though no one in the Republic of Croatia or abroad has ever paid a single kuna to the Croatian state budget, which has made more problematic works. The CNB was authorised, therefore, a solution to the fictitious privatisation of the Zagreb Bank, which is now market-rated at approximately 2 and a half billion euros, which is the amount lost by the de facto of the Republic of Croatia by that transaction, i.e. by fictitious privatisation. There are major failures in the supervision and control of banks. So, we expected when talking about the annual work report that the governor would explain to us, to clarify why the CNB was unable to act preventively because as many as 33 banks and savings banks of whom in the CNB failed in any case to prevent difficulties in business, because due to the poor organisation of the supervisory service only a small part of the active banking system as a lack of quality controllers, or bank inspectors. Although there was talk here about a story about real, monetary and credit policy, we believe that she was misrun... the country's policy, which is exclusively in the function of importing interest lobbys and de facto, promotes the continuing work of responsibilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The current leadership of the CNB which is as the only institution in Croatia in the description... so as to express myself constantly declares the high foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia, and if all the measures it has taken and brings to a stop and the same duty not only slowed down foreign debt but continued to grow, making Croatia one of the most in debt of all transition countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The CNB measures in the area of foreign debt suspension were and are now delayed, wrong and as such counterproductive and logical not to give the expected result. For the sake of the country's high debt, Croatia is in a difficult position of economic lagging although some indicators speak of some small shifts forward, however it is far from what could be more significant to start an economy that everyone likes to talk about very often, but in practice it is obvious that a change in credit-monetary policy is needed in order to create a new state, a new policy that would allow the CNB as an institution, that is, when a reputation of solving some of the problems that are related to the economy. As the CNB operates today, it has no reputation as an institution to address any problems that are present daily in the country's economic life, but has already established, built a mechanism for imposing its own views as an axiom, especially with regard to resolving the country's fiscal problems, which everyone in the Republic of Croatia should unspeakably follow. So, in particular, the question arises when the governor himself was talking about a six-year period and according to the report that we have here why did not a concrete law on the privatisation of banks, because until that law was then we had a situation... de facto way of uncontrollable privatization of the same and that something turned into nothing, and what it has for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a result, Croatia no longer has almost one of its own banks today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Cain here as he spoke he presented some information saying about it and I can repeat them, but there's no need to talk about how much financial resources were invested in the recovery of banks, since these banks were later sold and... they even talk about their resales, which are more than visible to the tens of billions of kunas, that I am not talking about the larger numbers in my mind which the Croatian people, Croatian society, by such a business, lost, and nothing could have happened without the consent of the Croatian National Bank which once again implemented the policy of governments that gave it political or other support or logistics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remember, I hope that I will not be resented by the President of the Croatian Parliament of one of his steps seven and eight years ago, perhaps even a few years ago when there was a debate about the banks, that he also spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, saying that the banks had been involved in crime. So that was seven, eight, nine years ago, I don't know exactly a year, don't mind me, so that's why I'm surprised by one... The debate, which turns out to be about the huge money that revolves around the Croatian National Bank, said counterpart Markov 80 billion kuna and 9 and a half billion euros, so it turns out that everything is so impeccable, all clean and should continue on track, that is, to accept the report unreservedly in spite of everything we all know objectively in Croatian society that Croatia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] its banks came into position economic and monetary dependence in which it is today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is why we expect that, first of all, we welcome the decision to go to the first reading with the Law on the Croatian National Bank, but we also expect that these evaluations or the enquiries that we have put in place by the Croatian National Bank, if the Governor or his deputies are to be made manifest about these matters, because I believe that through his speech on the report that the area remains uncovered, and when there is a talk about the Law on the Croatian National Bank, we will also talk about other aspects of the work, functioning and role of the Croatian National Bank in the Croatian Society of Economy and Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68333	Thank you. For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68334	... People's banks and colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] And such a mild feeling that the game is over, the result is famous and we are now as in this unfortunate football also now everything is possible, we are doing every possible analysis of why the result is just as it is. I need to remember there it is. ... The result is, I'm going to talk about what the score is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A little bit, I remember some good book by a Polish philosopher who was in '68. The year has to leave Poland, go to London, it's about Kolakosko who wrote a great book "Praise Consistency". Why... to praise consistency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was just thinking, already some colleagues mentioned before, it would be very interesting to take some of our speech stenograms so what we were saying there and... as fellow Leko who apparently has a better memory than all of us in '93, '94, '95, '97, '99, and let's not go so far as to say 2002, 2003, 2004 just when we faced similar problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's not that unreasonable and illogical either, because politics is a strange thing, depending on which position it represents,... the position in which you are in position, so depends on your position, means how you structure your speech, so then you have from an extreme criticism that again relatively affects the full thing to the same also apologetics that is certainly not welcome to anyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we don't really need this, not at all today's debate doesn't need to surprise a man. We can say that this is one of the few very comprehensive reports. It's almost like defending a doctorate at the Faculty of Economics, and indeed each of us was a member of the commission, and it's quite like actually to bother to ask which questions to ask. But politicians, unlike these scientists, actually know the questions they're going to ask in advance. I must admit it's moving to listen to the outpouring of the necessity of our financial independence, sovereignty. This year, the elections are coming, we are approaching the election year, and it is very important to show that really, financial independence is something we hold on to. Now, if we're going to do this verbal turn-out to call it that, we can and we can do it now is another thing, but it's going to pass the time, we just have to make a good impression. And I'm saying, the results are more or less irrelevant. And it seems to me that today it is very difficult for one Croatia as a transition country that has actually done everything in these past 15 years to sell its family silver, family treasure. He always wonders when the real opportunity is when the family silver is sold. It's obviously a time of great misfortune, a tragedy of family, wartime, a time of distress when values really don't mean much, but it's about mere survival. Now we can comment again on whether it was necessary to do so when it was done, and what colleague Košisa Chicin-Shain correctly noticed that we actually have here that Croatia is financially occupied, that it is about that the largest part of the city capital is controlled by Austrians and Italians. I can only remind you that we are very sensitive to any, some verbal political fallout that comes from the Italian side but interesting when we need to talk exactly about how these same Italians hold almost 50% of our financial capital, then suddenly we don't show one such sensitivity. What we did here also in the House let's be part of that commendation, consistency saying whether it's true, I used to ask that in the former coalition of the Deputy Prime Ministers at our famous meetings whether it could lead to a correlation that banks are in foreign hands with the fact that unemployment is what unemployment is like with us, or unemployment. Is there a, what does the theory of whether it is a causal relationship between the fact that, or what is the interest of foreign banks to open new jobs here or when we can expect it to become of interest to them, or if we cannot expect what we have to do on our own to achieve such an interest? They told me it was the wrong thing to do and that there wasn't one even though it wasn't mine, it was some people who did something about it. Here, I can mention the late colleague Nikola Shimetin who did not enter the then Management Board of the National Bank, I think he would do very well with his wisdom and maturity and years to make good use of it. He was just claiming that our financial capital was in foreign banks, that it really... It generates the fact that in Croatia unemployment is exactly what it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because here we're looking forward to something from 8.9 falling to 8.6 and I'm afraid I'm saying the consequences of these very generations that are experiencing it are even more than dramatic, almost frustrating. I don't know what can be harder if a young man doesn't have a job and an apartment, it's actually two fundamental problems that bother every human being, and how to create and build something called a better society, a happier society if you actually have ten percent of your population in the beginning, which is really a big question how can it all endure. I look forward to this fact, I may now be a lawyer of the Croatian National Bank, I won't say... It's just that maybe the climate is changing, that we've finally started working on the independence of our institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't have a transition if politics wants to put every institution in office. Then write home failed. I've already said that here several times. Jelicin failed that moment, but he failed to reform because he ignored institutions. In Spain after France, the transition succeeded from a simple fact because it was those people who then led, who began to lead Spain that knew how important this independence of the institutions was for the democratisation of a society. We also show that every time political movements have a major impact on economic movements. Whenever you have positive political movements, when you have an honest attitude towards the democratisation of society, then you can expect a favourable economic movement. It seems like a common place for everyone to know, but I'm afraid that we, apart from these verbal outbursts, are actually doing everything the other way around, and then we're getting into that situation where we're being asked seriously quo vadis Croatia that's actually waiting for us, whether this foreign debt is a big problem or not a big problem, or about what it's going to be. In the end, I don't think any of us think like that Madame Pompadur after me a general flood simply or Antonetta if you don't have bread, eat cookies. I'm afraid that none of us can take responsibility for the flood, nor do we think that we can feed the public with cookies, even if these cookies are called these relatively tempting stories of our financial sovereignty and independence, and I'm afraid that in these global movements, other than Chomsky, who is trying to challenge it in every way possible and show what we say in Mexico, Argentina happened when they listened too much to the IMF, and then you can see from time to time that some expert who suggests that you tell the IMF historically no, but apparently things aren't easy there. I mean, it all depends on what position we're talking about. When we're in position, then we're for historical "no," and when we get in a position to act in power, then we see that it's relatively easy to translate, but it's not that easy to say. And what I now have to say from this position of regionalist one is that 33 banks have reportedly failed in this period for the last ten years. Some of these declines were noisy, some of the bankruptcy and recoverys were as noisy as the Bank of Dubrovnik, as with the Bank of Rijeka, the problem of the Istrian Bank was set to a significant level but it seems to me that the problems called the County Bank were so called the Cibalia Bank and the City Bank, that it went a lot quieter and that it was precisely in that fact... If I hadn't mentioned some of the others, but here's what first comes to mind, which should also have been warned by the government and us sitting here in Parliament politics that is exactly the same disproportionate that exists between the fact that something fell apart and it was rescinded under big bells and something quiet that we don't really need to focus so much on who owns it or who is the lobby that stood behind these banks but should have put it into focus on saving that citizen who was actually not guilty that he didn't know that his politicians were quieter or that they didn't have enough power or that they were simply not so interesting to the media that I didn't know their remarks about the fact that something was going down, and that by doing so, it would be a question and the economy of this and future development, and that then there were certainly negative political implications that we were witnesses, and that these political projects that we were certainly offeringing these solutions were certainly far from these solutions to the new ones, and yet had to the new ones, which, which we had no idea, and therefore, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, that we had any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any kind of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any kind, which, which, which or of any of any of any of any of any of any kind, which, which, which, which, which, which, which or any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be taken into account for the good exposure of the governor who seems to me, as far as I can track... To oppose the former prime minister, I don't think with this I'm in any way in a secret relationship... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I feel rather than, in the back of his term, he has tried very often without our support to create exactly one independent institution that should just work past political relations in Parliament, past who is prime minister or who is minister of finance and I think that strengthening such an institution is very important, I'm just saying that the game is played, so here's what I'm saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're going into the field and we're trying to share... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] yellow and red cardboard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HSLS Club will support this report, because I'm afraid there is no space, but that we are about to have these very thematic discussions about our financial substance, or some future. It's also a fact, and let's see what can be done precisely on the trail of what counterpart Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain said to increase on the financial market competition and that this impact which is not only financially but also politically these two biggest lobbyes, and... that money doesn't have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It tastes and smells and it's a big question, and who's behind it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we so easily burn on the political plan when someone mentions something to us, and I say on this story which is much more sensitive and which is highly dependent on the fate of our citizens, their future, and exactly what we say is the most important political question that we will still have enough wisdom, and I will once again say that the even development of Croatia is just telling us that we are equally concerned about the fate of each, the future and the fate of each bank and that these certain collapses and bankruptcys and all that was in fact cannot pass that the one who is a lobby I don't know was rather strong in 2002 and they have succeeded, and I don't... Because it's not a criticism of them, it's a simple fact, but unfortunately, my feeling wasn't loud enough, so some banks, as they say, went through the night, and I'm not sure that it was justified every time, or whether the price of certain poor management was ultimately paid by citizens of the economy in order for the National Bank to be able to play a more significant role in that, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was a lot of conversation and an attempt to actually not tell the intervention in this way but to present the matter, but the success unfortunately was not adequate to the effort. Thanks again for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68335	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68336	... President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Specially enabled.]] The Croatian National Bank can greatly influence economic developments, economic development and the general consolidation of the state through monetary policy instruments. This is why the Croatian National Bank's report does not show the macro-economic movement of the economic and overall society as it can assess the effectiveness of the measures taken and the instruments of monetary policy. The monetary policy, however independent of various political influences, must also be in the role of realising the objectives outlined by the overall economic social development strategy. How did economic indicators of achieved development such as... gross domestic product, industrial production, employment and others already commented in previous exhibitions and in other reports through the annual budget calculation for 2005 and, similarly, I would not repeat them in my presentation but would refer to the measures taken and instruments of monetary policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The purpose of monetary policy in 2004 was to slow down and halt foreign borrowing, and was continued in 2005 to maintain macroeconomic stability. For this reason, in two times over the year, the border reserve rates were increased from 24% to 30% in March and from 30% in June to 40% in order to expand the base for the calculation of the border reserve in December 2005 but with application in 2006. This shows the Croatian National Bank's determination to continue implementing measures to stop foreign borrowing. This restrictive measure on loans abroad has prompted some banks to attract domestic capital by raising interest on deposits. The shifts are not great, but the trend is to raise interest on large deposits that are already being achieved by legal persons, and the calculation of the profitability of the domestic passport is clear. The second objective of the monetary policy introduced in 2005 is to improve monetary governance in order to maintain the liquidity of the banking system and to establish an active role of the Croatian National Bank in liquidity management. This objective is achieved by introducing a new monetary policy instrument, which is open-market operations. The main objective of the introduction of operations on the domestic market was to reduce the oscillation of interest rates on the money market and stabilise the market. During 2005, regular reverses were used for the implementation of this monetary policy instrument... operations carried out every Wednesday at regular auctions involving domestic banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As collateral, the kuna vault records of the Ministry of Finance are used. It is also necessary to highlight this monetary policy instrument which specifically came to light in the second half of 2005, as banks turned to using a new liquidity maintenance source at the central bank due to the introduction of 40 percentage rates. This also confirms that, on this basis, more than 89 billion kuna was placed on banks, of which more than 83 billion or 93% in the second half of the year. To implement the objectives set, the Croatian National Bank also benefits from other monetary policy instruments that intervene in the money market and regulate the banking system depending on the needs and current situation in the area. The banking sector continued to consolidate the banking system towards a reduction in the number of banks, from 37 at the beginning of 2005 to 34 at the end of the year. There were 46 banks at the beginning of 2003. I would particularly point out several times the changed business regulation of banks towards respecting international accounting standards and international standards of financial reporting, which has contributed to a better quality of showing financial assets. In addition, the Croatian National Bank introduced order, financial discipline and transparency in business and financial reporting through sublegal acts, decisions and guidelines. Thanks to the measures taken by the Croatian National Bank, there has been a change in the structure of the active banks, but I think there is a need to mention an increase in the participation of deposits with the Croatian National Bank, vault and cash registers and securities while loans to other users in absolute terms continue to account for more than 50% of the assets. Speaking of loans, I must point out that it has increased, that the share of credit has actually been reduced and increased by state units and republican funds, which is in line with the basic objective of monetary policy, which is to reduce borrowing abroad. It is certain that some will say that it does not matter where we are in debt, whether abroad or on the domestic market, whether it is debt. I would not agree with such a finding because the domestic market is under the control of the Croatian National Bank. We can influence it through the measures of our domestic monetary policy, regardless of what most of the banking capital is owned by foreign governments, because they operate under conditions and within our legal frameworks. On the other hand, we want faster development, we want to grow gross domestic product by five and more percent, we want to increase exports and employment and we don't have enough of our own financial resources and we want to make it happen, and then what? Either borrow credit and develop or stay out of debt and stagnate. Personally, I don't think it's a problem to take credit, but to use and control spending. If the use of the credit enables it to be returned and to achieve some additional value, then credits are bearers and drivers of development. In the end, just one more thought. Croatia is going in the right direction, only it must not stop as someone said, I don't know who but it says if it wants to join Europe then it must run if it wants to catch up with other members of the European Union then it must run faster than others, with the conclusion that the goals set before the Croatian People's Bank are achieved. Therefore, maintaining the stability of the exchange rate and the price for the issue of credit expansion, which also resulted in a slowdown in external debt, and I believe that in 2005 the Croatian National Bank demonstrated its full responsibility in the development of the economy. I hope that the Croatian National Bank, i.e. I am convinced that it will continue to implement measures in the function of economic development, which will, together with a significant fiscal adjustment or fiscal policy of this government, speed up economic growth and thus the standard of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68337	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68338	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! In the past year, the Croatian National Bank has focused its business on achieving the primary objectives set out in the 2001 National Bank Act. Among the primary objectives achieved by the central bank in 2005 is price stability. The Central Bank continued its activities to limit the country's external imbalance, introduced significant improvements in monetary policy instruments. In addition, she managed international reserves, controlled the banking system and the business of housing savings. She was running payment traffic banks and vault business. According to the Croatian National Bank Report, consumer price inflation increased in 2001, up by 2.1% in 2004, to 3.3 in 2005. As a result, the world market price rises in oil prices, depreciation of the kuna by the US dollar. However, the increase in prices on the domestic market, primarily meat and meat products, clothing and shoes, electricity, protected rents, health services, has also contributed to the increase in inflation. At the same time, a set of factors helped keep inflation, which are strengthening the value of kuna towards the euro, slowing the growth of personal consumption, growth in labour productivity, a continuation of strong competition in the retail sector and banking. The overall stability of the kuna exchange rate over the past years has been crucial to the effectiveness of the Croatian National Bank's efforts aimed at retaining inflation and preserving financial stability. In order to prevent excessive liquidity, the Croatian National Bank has continued to reserve its reserve in the banking system under which banks are required to allocate to the Croatian National Bank the particularly prescribed amount and keep some of the funds in their account. Mandatory reserves during 2000 were calculated at an 18% rate based on the kuna and foreign currency. These efforts were not sufficient to prevent the spread of external imbalances, so the National Bank took measures to slow down credit growth in order to slow down foreign borrowing of banks and companies because the funds supplied from abroad encouraged the growth of credit and imports of goods. The new bank's debt and related companies in 2005 limited the Croatian National Bank by increasing the border reserve. The rate to calculate these reserves during 2005 increased from 24% to 30% and then to 40%. The Croatian National Bank, in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance, has raised steps to reroute the country's foreign debt to the domestic market. This has contributed to a reduction in the share of foreign debt. Total foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia from 33% to 27.6% in 2005. During 2005, foreign debt increased from EUR 22.8 billion to EUR 25.5 billion or 12%. Banks and the domestic sector have increased their debt by €1 billion and €200 million and foreign direct investment has increased by €300 million. The state has reduced foreign debt by EUR 200 million. The foreign debt ratio of the Republic of Croatia in gross domestic product reached 82.5% in late 2005. In addition to this fiscal policy measure, the Croatian National Bank introduced new instruments of monetary policy, among which the most significant place belonged to the weekly reverse... auctions used for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] liquidity in the banking system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian National Bank continued to use the purchase of deveiz from business banks through auctions and bought EUR 671 million and simultaneously sold to the State EUR 343 million. According to new monetary policy instruments, the application of new monetary policy instruments contributed to the moderate growth of monetary aggregates in 2005. However, the primary money grew 19.1%. Money mass increased by 12.3%. Cash in circulation by 11%. And deposit for 12.9%. Population deposits increased by 7.2% and foreign deposits increased by 6.1. This is the main indicator of the quality and potential of the banking system in the Republic of Croatia. Plasma banks... The sector grew by 17.2% and the population by 20.3%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much more than the growth of deposits, but for the first time banks are more significant assets, credit funds also directed towards the economy. Foreign-owned banks did not use Croatian, the services of the Croatian National Bank, which I consider to be one of the main problems of their behaviour but were already in charge abroad of parent banks for 6.3 billion kuna. These funds have been paid to the domestic sector, such credit growth has allowed for an increase in goods imports larger than export growth and the current account deficit of Croatia's balance of payments has increased by 6.3% of the gross domestic product in 2005. In my assessment, permanent and fiscal measures should be taken to control foreign borrowing. This must be our goal and such measures, regardless of what individuals are criticising that by taking fiscal measures against banks, the price of money that comes from abroad into the Republic of Croatia and thus encourages consumption must be collected, and banks ultimately earn exceptional profits. In 2005, banks met their commitments without difficulty, affecting the stability of interest on the money market. The balance capital of banks at the end of 2005 was 23.6 billion kuna and was 19.7% higher compared to the end of 2004. Only one bank showed losses in the 50.3 million kuna business while others earned a net profit of 3 billion and 369 million kuna. There was a capital increase of 19.7%, and this is one of the major indicators of how high money is earned on foreign capital transactions in Croatia and by importing and selling goods on domestic Croats. The market. I must say, in the end, that the Croatian National Bank managed properly with international reserves that reached 7 billion and 418 million euros at the end of the year, which were more than 15.7% compared to the previous year. Of the 98.6% of these reserves, foreign exchange reserves. The currency structure of international reserves was 80.7% in the euro and 19.3 in the US dollars. Most of the international reserves, the Croatian National Bank invested in the securities and deposits of the state and banks of the highest rating. The rest of the central bank's international reserves are... Business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, Mr. President, the Croatian National Bank had an orderly financial business in 2005. The profit of 261 million kuna that the National Bank has consistently distributed into reserves, its reserves 52.3 million kuna and 209.3 million kuna in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. I will certainly support the adoption of this Croatian National Bank Report because I think that the Croatian National Bank played its part in the financial market and capital market in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68339	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we're about to interrupt the session. We'll continue to discuss this agenda point at 15.00 hours. It's Vesna Skara Ozbolt's representative. So, proceed at 15.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to discuss the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2005. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68341	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed representative of the CNB. Here's a report from the CNB, and I would say, as with many other examples, that in 2006, positive and negative and positive and less optimistic signals and less optimistic signals can be seen, and it is a real impression that the economy has come into a state of temporary balance and now the question in which this toothpick is going to move forward, whether it is going to start, whether one small initial incentive is enough to move forward or sink. That there are optimistic and pessimistic tones tells several examples. The example of the labour market on the one hand is unemployment in May 2006 as opposed to the same time last year has been reduced. That sounds good until it is known that at the same time the number of employees in the industry fell by 1.7%. More and more companies are announcing a decrease in production, but dozens of Croatian companies are interested in going to Serbia where the conditions of business are much more favourable due to tax policy and are finally and privileged to export to Russia. The IMF tells us about a favourable external environment for growth, while at the same time warning us that in the future the conditions will deteriorate for Croatia and that it should not be too vulnerable, or unprepared. The IMF recently praised us that the state budget was tamed, i.e. the budget deficit, but at the same time we recently received from the government in this House a proposal that completely irresponsiblely forgives 700 million kunas to the football mob and thus basically sends a signal that it is socially acceptable not to pay taxes. The prime minister boasts the growth of exports of 17.4% but fails that at the same time imports increased faster and 18.2%, respectively. There are, of course, positive signals and a lot of it. The “Maraska” factory is recovering well. In Zadar’s “Luke” they announce the enormous employment of 1,000 workers. The Nexe Group collects more than 700 million kunas without a problem for further development. But at the same time, there's pessimistic evidence coming in, and tomorrow we'll see that health care is about to break. Also, entrepreneurs present evidence of corruption in state bodies and companies when it comes to setting up public tenders, as well as those rarely accused of so-called. The fraud in the state structures is being cleared of the charges. Here, and that is now the question of these positive and negative signals being sent to us through this report but these days too. Who can answer the question of where the Croatian economy is going, and what should be done? Definitely one of the answers is to find the right development strategy to be based on exports. Therefore, the development programme should be based on exports, which also confirms a number of examples of Asian tigers, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark. All these countries have based their development on exports and it definitely seems to us that it is time to replace the slogan "bought Croatia" with the slogan "export Croatian". Because if we want to develop then we have to develop as a small country based on exports. Furthermore, when it comes to debt, Croatia has accumulated a debt exceeding 25 billion euros. We have a debt greater than 83% of gross social product and these debts need to be paid off. That could have been achieved by selling the property so far because we had it. So we sold HT, we sold it to the INA, but what happens when we sell it all? So the only long-term solution is exports. Why there's no export that's the basic question. Probably because the import lobby is strong, because this is how we would encourage imports. This import lobby is encouraged by overrated currency. The CNB's advice in the course policy is actually what it looks like to be powerless. The reason for the appraisal is the increased supply of foreign exchanges on the market, which is precisely by borrowing and is not a problem when companies are in charge of equipment or of some intermediary products because this will increase production. But when the population or banks then credited to buy import products from their countries of origin are being stimulated by consumption and imports, and the borrowing process increases the supply of foreign exchanges and lowers their price. And indeed, it has proved very unsuccessful to stop the borrowing of banks and the population, which is both the business of fiscal policy. Now it is interesting to see which sectors Croatia is stimulating. Croatia is stimulating several sectors that are economically unwarranted. The non-payment of VAT excludes the entire fiscal sector – bookshops, gambling games and casinos. All countries exempt from the tax of the sector on which they want to base their development, and it is obvious that we do not need to base our development on these sectors that are today excluded from VAT. So foreign banks today in Croatia prefer to finance consumption rather than production. Credits to the population are maximumly facilitated, and it is not so easy for entrepreneurs to get to them, and that is why bank loans are growing to the population, and not to businesses, and if you want to stimulate something, it is logical that the procedure will be simplified. That's why the procedure if you want to get a credit for entrepreneurship is extremely difficult as if you're going through a maze. And now something about the comparative advantages of Croatia. This is all about the sea, tourism, ports and transport. Tourism should be developed by exporting agricultural products through it. How to profit from tourism if food and furniture are imported, or import addiction is very high. Or take a shipbuilding in which import dependence is almost greater than the added value. Through tourism, agriculture can develop, but not with such incentives. Such incentives stimulate expensive production because it stimulates the treated area and not the quantities produced. And it is definitely a solution to encourage tourism to buy domestic products, so even peasants wouldn't have a problem with the ransom. But also in the fall must determine the ransom prices to... In this way, the farmer would be left with a choice if he could sell it more expensively for him, and if he cannot guarantee that he will be redeemed at agreed prices. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] And here's an example of how the state stimulates imports, not exports. One importer recently introduced beef from Brazil. Even if we assume that meat was of good quality, the imports came without VAT. By introducing VAT, we increased the price by 22%, and the importer went to franchise, he added another stage of marginal value based on which he returned the entire VAT paid. And in the end, I'm going back to the problem of duty. We hystericald a few years ago about extremely right here in the Parliament about an extremely high external debt. Then he certainly did what was right for us. However, today's external debt is never higher, and everyone is silent. And definitely also the Prime Minister is the first to care that foreign debt growth is not mentioned. The slowdown in borrowing, regardless of whether it was achieved formally or by banks or by states, would reduce definitely the paying power, i.e. the ability to pay, the country's particular demand. And that would cause a fall probably inflatable rates of growth from 4 to maybe 3% or 2%, a decrease in employment and budgetary problems. And then definitely the finance minister would find himself in a lot of trouble if he reduced the import of goods, because that would also reduce VAT revenue. Of course, before the next parliamentary elections, no one can afford to stop the growth of foreign debt. But a country where there is no political determination to reduce debt also accepts a stand by arrangement to force a reduction in consumption through it, and I think we know everything about it. And I think you should definitely let go of the stories of who's guilty of external debt. Debt isn't party. It is neither HDZ nor SDP, because all governments have practically run the same policy and instead of managing the country, the country has been sold out. Today, too, the question is how to enter the European Union. Easy if you have an export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68342	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, an official visit to the Croatian Parliament is the delegation of the Parliament of the Kingdom of Sweden, led by the first deputy president of Parliament, Mr. Per Westerberg, who is at the gallery. Let's say hello. Yes, clearly, accompanied by Mr. Luke Bebić's first vice president. [[Applause.]] Yeah. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68343	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague of Vesna Scare Ozbolt's said the loans to the companies didn't grow. That's not true. Credits to companies doubled and the rate was increased from 8% to 16% compared to 2005 to 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68344	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68345	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what my colleague says is that foreign banks stimulate consumption, not production. In fact, it shows that I should understand the production. Manufacturers have nothing to guarantee when they seek credit. And there's the problem. By the way, I know a number of manufacturers, I talked to him, thank God everyone from my community came to us and helped us through stimulating interest on these problems, and a series got them without a lot of problems with a good elaborate. Next, says import, colleague, import lobby stronger. She forgets, and she was next to the president of the late Dr. Franjo Tudjman when he said nicely that the whole of Croatia would not go to a small Austrian village, and I would go further to Trieste, Nakanja and more, but we finally got the department houses here. No more tails at the border. How much was the import on that... Shut up, I think. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68346	And the third correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues of Skara. In 10 minutes, what you said would be better if you spoke at the time, and you were a minister by the time you were three months old, then maybe you'd be more credible. It is not true that this government is not politically determined. Every man and she rule who is principled that determined. And your unprincipledness, Pere Kovacevic, is silent when I speak to her because I'm older than you, every person is principled and determined. And your principle extends from the Communist party, SDP, HDZ, DC, and don't talk to me about determination and principle because you need to know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68348	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68349	So the Croatian National Bank report speaks of fiscal policy, monetary policy. In any case, this report can read what kind of economic policy we have, whether it's going in the right direction or not. And what may most possibly have been mentioned in this House and in recent years, somewhat less this year, is the country's responsibility and how much we are therefore in charge of this country. The fact is, we're in a lot of debt. We have now come from 68% of the GDP's debt to 82% and the fact is that in 4 years, the coalition government has committed 7.7 billion euros, and that the HDZ government has committed 6.4 billion euros in just two years, which means in 2 years everything that has been the post in 4 years. The fact is that this task is a dramatic upper limit that should not be gone. More than 7,000 euros were owed to the child born in Croatia every day. This height of external debt and its trend of further growth gives one result and a poor negotiating position for Croatia towards the European Union and... It is about dramatic moments and a dramatic future, because this increase in the trend of public debt can indeed lead to very serious crisis economics, thus both political situations and serious conditions in Croatia. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] What happens with the rise in external debt is dramatic, the crisis is big, the debt is big, and the only answer is to really change the current power. These are colleagues and colleagues of the words Ivo Sanader, Vladimir Seks and Jadranka Kosor just 3 years ago on the same topic. I believe that this is today an indicator of the non-disciplinary HDZ policy because, according to Croatia and its public and external debt, we should be equally responsible when we are in opposition and when we are in power, and today the gentlemen here have no such concern about the external debt of the Republic of Croatia which has risen to 82% of the GDP, Croatia is increasingly becoming more and more difficult to repay its debts, rather than giving in production, in the development capacity it gives in consumption, it is not spoken of here, it was spoken of here 3 years ago, and I think that both Prime Minister Sanader and Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Shucker and Finance Minister Ivan Schuker were to discuss here today a rather difficult situation in the Republic of Croatia which in many documents is falsified and does not show it as it is. The only document of the Croatian National Bank has shown what the fiscal policy situation of the Republic of Croatia really is. So much for the principle of HDZ and your policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68350	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I apologize for at some point I've been monitoring something here, so I haven't, I'm sorry I haven't been able to hear you connect my name to what. Could you maybe repeat that to me to remember what this is all about? If you'd be so kind as to just say it because at that point I really missed it, so I don't know if you would. ... Well, fine if you hold that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. It is not true, gentlemen, that we need to change this power, that this power is chosen by the Croatian people and will be confirmed by the Croatian people based on the results of the colleague in 1989, since 1990 you have forgotten that this is a sovereign, independent, democratic state of Croatia. For the first elections, we wrote like this if we were allowed to vote in the Croatian Parliament. That time did not happen again, not because of me and you, but because of the Croatian people, and fellow Members of Vesna Škara Ozbolt in the next elections will evaluate the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68352	Leave the representative alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68353	I've been chosen by the Croatian people and you, I've never... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68354	Let her go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68355	I've never missed 5% unlike you, so count the votes of your constituency.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68356	All right, calm down. Come on. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68357	Count since 1995, the 11th electoral unit has won unlike DC. Count the votes... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68358	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68359	Mrs. Zdenka Babić Petricevic injured the Rules of Procedure for not correcting my incorrect allegations, this is Mr. Ivo Sanader's quote, he told us three years ago, so it's just the quote of Eve Sanader, and not mine, so it's not a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68360	If she was correcting the incorrect allegations by claiming that you incorrectly presented this fact, but you're not going to tell me what you said about me. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68361	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, when a colleague was already saying that we had talked about the task before, we were the only ones with the former government saying that the state was over-indebted, and that's what we say today and the only decisive step Mrs. Zdenka was doing when the debt grew to over $30 billion, then she turned it into euro. Here, it's the only decisive step to reduce as a debt if you had a better psychological relationship with everything else. Therefore, the country's debt had been high before, now partly continued by borrowing, and on the other hand we don't have domestic banks, we don't have investments in domestic production, but all we get are different loans that are in the function of loans that are consumer nature and purchases of goods from these banks. ... Foreign banks, here's the part. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68362	Replication response. There isn't. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68363	Mr. President, I refer to Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Kovacevic mentioned my name and quotes, and I didn't discuss it at all. I was reporting to correcting the incorrect allegations of Mrs. Collars, not Mr. Peri Kovacevic, because he thinks that everyone who talks to us is thinking about his knowledge and his mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68364	A respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68365	So I can say that here's my violation of the Rules of Procedure of Focus almost on what Mrs. Petricevic said and here after years of conflicts here I agree with her that my colleague Kovacevic hurt his Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209. Namely, he brutally attacked the government he supports. I don't think it can stand. It just doesn't go with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68366	Okay, this is so-called. A flabby violation of the Rules of Procedure a little bit. I'm finalizing a debate on this subject. Annual report by the Croatian National Bank for 2005. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2005, 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 82 votes for, 4 abstentions and 4 against, the proposed report was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68369	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here I will try very briefly to present the basic figures and indicators from the financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2005. Therefore, the financial reports were confirmed by the Croatian Government but also confirmed by the independent auditor Deloid, who said that these HABOR financial reports show real and objectively showing the bank's financial position on 31 December 2005 as well as the results of business, cash flows, changes in capital according to international financial standards. So at the end of 2005, the total balance sheet amount of HABOR was around 13 billion and 700 million kuna, which is a 17% increase compared to the previous year. The growth of the balance sheet amount was the most contributed by an increase in gross credit by around 44%, so our core activity and I must stress this by listening to this previous debate of loans intended solely for the economy or infrastructure projects that create the preconditions for the development of economic activity. So, as regards the approved loans in 2005, around 4 billion and 700 million loans were granted, which is 44% higher loan approval than in the previous 2004. In addition, we have issued guarantees of about a billion and 450 million kuna. So our total business activity was about 6 billion and 200 million kuna. This should also be added to the activity we are working on behalf of and on behalf of the Croatian State, which is the insurance of exports from political and commercial risks that amounted to about a billion kuna in 2005 which is 66% more than in the previous year. And I must say that we have processed about 550 export insurance applications and have reached about 2% of the guaranteed exports from total exports. At the end of 2005, our capital amounted to about 4 billion kuna and 900 million kuna, and I must say that it was secured in a professional banking way by the reserves for all possible risk placements. Our total capital was around 36% at the end of 2005 in the total passive structure. Total revenues were around 694 million kuna, total expenditures of around 524 million kuna and profits of around 170 million kuna. I must stress that in that profit we kept, so by clock get of about 170 million kuna we kept the real value of capital. In fact, this profit slightly exceeds the amount of inflation to the total amount of our capital at the end of 2005. What I think is important to highlight beyond these I would say is that at the beginning of 2005 we reduced the interest rate and that for future credits granted so that from that period, from January 2005 to today our interest rates range from 2 to 6 % but I must also say that we have done something that is probably unique in the Croatian banking market ever. We reduced the interest rates for previously approved loans, and that was about 410 loans in total, in which the principal total was around 2 billion kuna. So we reduced all these previously approved interest rates to all these previously approved loans for exporters to 5% interest and for all other economic operators at the most to 7%. The new lending programmes that we have brought in this report 2005 are in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture to raise long-term crops and improve cattle production, then prepare the tourist season to connect tourist activity with production activities, whether it is food production, whether it is manufacturing the necessary equipment and retail inventory. And with the Environmental Protection Fund, we have developed a credit programme for environmental protection, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. With the fund, we have concluded an agreement on co-financing of 2% of the points for the reduction of interest rates in these credit programmes. For the Croatian economy or Croatian exporting economies, which have export status according to our rules, we have provided two new programmes, a loan insurance programme for the preparation of exports and a programme for issuing censure guarantees. We also signed in terms of improving the increase in Croatian exports, we signed seven new agreements on co-operation with export banks and export credit agencies from Austria, the Kingdom of Jordan, the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Ukraine, the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation. So far, we have signed thirty-five agreements with export banks and export-credit banks. We primarily made sure that these were the countries with which we co-operated in international trade, so in which we export the most. Then we concluded five basic export credit agreements with framework credit lines, foreign customers' banks in Russia, Serbia and Kazakhstan. I must also say that already in 2004 we took a step towards our users and in 2004 we opened the regional offices in Split and Pula. In 2005, we continued the opening of the district offices and opened the district offices in Osijek and Gospić. In this way we want to be not only closer to the users and allow them to get better conditions and insight into our credit programmes but also to satisfy or respond to our role as state development banks in an advisory sense. Therefore, not only do we provide timely information but we link end-users, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, craftsmen and farmers who find it difficult to reach the bank's counter to help them not only prepare the credit claim but also during the use of credit or investment. We continued to organise a seminar for beginner entrepreneurs. Within the 12 seminars, we had over 500 participants. On the foreign market in 2005 we obtained EUR 260 million, with the most favourable conditions for lending to Croatian entities on the market of trade union credits. We also organised the 4th International Conference for the Promotion of Exports in Dubrovnik, then a workshop on encouraging foreign investment together with the USD in Bjelovar and the Ministry of Economy in Bjelovar, an international foreign investment conference for Croatian economy growth under the auspices of the Croatian government in Cavtat. We have joined as the first financial institution in the Croatian financial initiative of the United Nations Environment and Environmental Protection Programme. In April 2005, we signed a partnership agreement for technical support with the USAD including their project "Entrepreneurship Croatia", a project that is support for small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen. We have been selected as the executive body of gift management for the renewable energy project. It is a gift received by the Republic of Croatia from the World Bank. I will only say a few words about what is now current, so what is related to ours, our work in this period and the first half of 2006. We have organized a very useful workshop in Vukovar "Incentives of investment in the economy of the city of Vukovar and Vukovar-Srijem County" so that the business zones already in existence in the city of Vukovar and Vukovar-Srijem County would be filled in to attract both domestic and foreign investors. Then, in cooperation with the Agency for the Protection of the Competition of the Republic of Croatia, we have completed the process of harmonising the terms of the lending programme in order to adapt all our credit programmes with the provisions of the acquis of the European Union. In March of this year with the Ministry of Agriculture, the economy and the sea we signed an agreement on doing business on behalf and on account of the implementation of the model of fishing fleet renewal and modernisation. And for the purpose of encouraging and restoring domestic fishermen, or fishing fleets. We signed an agreement on cooperation with the import-export bank in Korea and the Korean Export Insurance Agency. And we started the process of reorganising HABOR in order to make it more effective and support Croatia's economy especially by uniting all credit operations in one sector and strengthening IT support. By April 30th, this year over one billion kunas of credit were granted and export turnover was secured at HRK 360 million. I forgot to mention that in the 2005 report, the biggest increase in lending was in the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises as much as 206% compared to 2004. In this first quarter, we further increased the meaning of these extraordinary achievements in the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2005 we further increased according to the same period last year by 60%. So we take great care of this small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and craftsmanship where jobs are most and most quickly created with at least financial participation. We also signed a contract with the Environmental Protection Fund on the basis of the Global Environmental Protection Fund's donation, and we designed a preparation programme for environmental lending. Something that we think is very important is that we adopted a new programme for lending finds. We want to make a full contribution to lending and encouraging those entrepreneurs and inventors to come up with new technical solutions. Which will improve new products or design new products because without it there is no progress in Croatia's economy or in Croatia, without speaking in better competition on foreign markets. And finally here's Mudis agency raised HABOR rating from BAA3 to BAA1 according to the increased rating of Croatia's state. Mr. President and distinguished MPs and MPs thank you for your patience and here I am at your disposal if you need to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68370	Thank you very much. Since no one has applied for the debate, I'll conclude the debate and move on to the next point. Annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development 2005. I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm HABOR's annual financial reports for 2005. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 90 votes for and one abstentions have been submitted to the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68373	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians. It is my pleasure to present a report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development last year. You got the report in front of you so I'll just do a short cut of work, and all the other details are in the report. The report contains, of course, everything we did last year and everything we plan to do in this year or what we already do in this year and how we want to profile our National Science Foundation. First of all, most or almost all programmes of the National Science Foundation were launched last year. At this moment, the Fund has 13 programmes that are basically aimed at or support the development of research careers, the development and expansion of research capacities in Croatia and the integration of Croatian science into the European space of higher education, or European scientific and scientific research space. Programmes are grouped into several categories with different objectives and programmes are actually financial instruments to realise these objectives. We started with, as early as 2004, with the first programmes that had the task of supporting higher education reforms in the section relating to science development because we estimated that science development depends primarily on quality education for people at the doctoral level and quality reform of higher education. Then we started four programmes aimed at the inflow of brains or attracting researchers in Croatia from the earliest stage, so from the post-doctoral phase to the latest phase of so-called seniors of people who have established an independent research career and who want to continue their work and research in Croatia. We have further developed two financial instruments to support new doctoral studies, i.e. the education of PhDs in those studies that have been reformed or changed in line with the goals of the Bologna process. So, with studies that provide much more quality and organised and shorter education at the doctoral highest level, so-called. the third cycle of higher education. In addition, we have launched a programme aimed at achieving a partnership between budgetary sources of funding. First of all, we think of industry and entrepreneurship and basic research in which we insist that this partnership be felt financially. So, in basic research, they invest both industry and entrepreneurship with the aim of not only creating scientific product and scientific results but primarily education of people through a doctoral study for the needs of industrial development and entrepreneurship. Furthermore, we have launched several programmes that we continue to develop aimed at including Croatian science in the European Research Area. For the time being, we have launched two programmes to support the participation of Croatian scientists in European Science Foundation programmes and a programme to support the development of an independent research career together with the IBO, the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, which is a prestigious programme and Croatia is first involved in this programme. So, all these programmes are essentially financial instruments that we want to realise the strategic values and strategic objectives of the national foundation that we presented in the strategic plan of the foundation and that we are implementing exactly as outlined in the strategic plan presented to the Parliament and which was discussed. In addition to last year's programme, we worked intensively on the organisational structure of the foundation, primarily with the aim of including our trust in the European space. That is why we decided to form the International Council of Foundations for what we announced last year, or last year's report. During 2005, we formed the International Council of Foundations, which includes four prestigious international institutions, or their representatives. The most common are the presidents of these institutions. These are the president of the German Science Foundation, so the DFG, the Swiss Science Foundation, the Irish Science Foundation and the Finnish Academy. All these people have been visiting our foundation and Croatia except for representatives of the Swiss foundation we expect in the ninth month of this year. Of course, we aim at using the resources of these institutions, using the knowledge that exists in these institutions, above all, expertise and the ultimate goal and the real goal is to actually develop and launch joint financial instruments, i.e. joint programmes. In addition to the International Council of our Foundation, we also organized advice, or began to organise a foundation advice in line with strategic objectives, or strategic priorities. We have structured this advice so that two representatives of the Councils are scientists from Croatia, one from the Croatian diaspora and two representatives, prominent representatives from foreign institutions. For now, we have formed two councils of this council, and the process of forming the other 5 councils according to the strategic priorities set out in the strategic plan is under way. As far as the fund's finances are concerned, at the end of 2005, she had 107 million kuna. Of these 107 million kunas, about 50 million kunas were basic assets that were registered as basic assets and which we do not have the right to spend, and other funds were allocated according to the programmes that we have set out. So, they're all planned as software and basically all the software is with these programs that we've run and set up spent. Therefore, according to the dynamics of the implementation of these programmes by 2000, by the end of 2008, all funding will be spent on that part of the programme. In other words, this means that there is a need to think either about a specific additional budget item for the trust or about or better to say about additional sources of funding that are not directly linked to the state budget. Of course, the board of directors began to think and began activities in this regard. Our goal is to attract additional investment through all our programmes in research that are not of course funds from the budget. Of course, however, the foundation cannot accomplish its mission if it relys solely on such small resources from the state budget. So, in the next period except for a few programs that we plan with foreign institutions, above all with the Irish Foundation, a pardon with the Finnish Academy, with the German Science Foundation, with the Japanese Science Foundation. So it's going to be a joint programme for which we have the intended funds. We have no intention of launching new programmes precisely because there is no financial coverage for the new programmes. So we think that we have built a structure specifically by making connections with foreign institutions and including, by connecting with European institutions, that we have established a structure that guarantees promotion and more significant investment in excellence in Croatia's research space. Excellence is also one of the strategic values and strategic objectives of the foundation and we think the foundation has been profiled as one of the three key pillars for financing research in Croatia. So besides the Ministry of Science, which is funded by basic research technology policy that finance applied research, the National Foundation for Science focuses on the excellence of research careers and of course a proactive investment policy in quality research and quality people. Well, Mr. President, that would be a short cut of what's in the report, and I think all the details can be read further. And of course I'm willing to answer all the questions that interest Parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68374	Thank you very much. Does the board president want it? Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Honored Representative President Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68375	Thank you, Mr. President, sir... The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the National Declaration for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 on 24 June. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee discussed the issues as a home working body, and the opening statement was submitted by a clear representative of the applicant. Comparing the report with reports from earlier years, the board found, which I find very important, that the National, Mr. President, could be a little quieter.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68376	Who's bothering you? All of them? Is that where you are? There.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68377	Therefore, by comparing the report in question with reports from earlier years, the Committee claimed that the National Science Foundation was established by the 2001 Law, only in the past 2005 to be sufficiently organisational, programming and financial, to be able to carry out the objectives entrusted to it. The Foundation's bodies have identified their own priorities in funding programmes and projects. It has qualified organisational forms for their implementation, has opened and implemented the first grant tenders. In addition, it has launched forms of international cooperation, which I particularly underline, so international cooperation for the purpose of embezzling in the own structures of some of the best European experiences. In fact, the Foundation has won cooperation and participation in its own forms of action by several very prominent world professors, scientists and experts to support science and scientists through foundations and similar organisational forms. Information from the representatives of the report has been accepted that, for the time being, the funds for the ongoing competition have been allocated, in fact, all available funds, with funds for monitoring the Fund's programme to be increased in accordance with its main and part of the financial capacity to be spent for the purpose of financing ongoing projects. All the forms through which the Foundation is multiplying its own effects in collaboration with economic operators interested in projects financed, together with the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, budgets and other interested partners are supported. It is necessary to expect and support the growing importance of the Foundation's role in the coming years. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously concluded. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68378	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68379	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Management Board of the Foundation. First and foremost, I would like to emphasise the introduction that the HDZ Club fully supports the key findings that have just been made in the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for 2005. In that sense, I would like to stress specifically and repeat the following facts. It is more than obvious that in the past period, a significant step has been taken in advance in the work of this important institution over the past year. Comparing the 2005 report in question with previous years' reports, it is clear that the work of this institution has been improved in every respect, both in organisational terms and in particular in terms of results achieved. As the foundation has said, it has opened and implemented its first grant tenders. The Foundation has gained co-operation and participation in the work of several very prominent scientists, which is very important for credibility and extends the international reputation of this institution. And we certainly support all the forms of activities that should enable the Foundation to multiply not only its own resources which I would say are limited, especially to multiply these funds in cooperation with the economy, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. For all these reasons, given the positive significant steps made in the past year, it is necessary to expect significant and significant efforts of this institution in the coming period. So, therefore, well-recognizable and significant results regarding important activities, as it stands in the statutes of this institution, and I would regret to stress them. First of all, the promotion of science, I believe, is a very important activity that deserves more attention. The promotion of technological development also deserves organised efforts not only of this Foundation, but of close cooperation with other institutions of the Croatian state in order to achieve strategic objectives, and they are related to ensuring economic development and promotion of employment in this case and this knowledge-based context. The transformation of Croatian society from industrial society into a knowledge society is important, but I would say a very complex, long-term task that requires organised efforts of the entire society, full support, but also significant financial resources, far greater unfortunately than we have at this time in the mood. A globally competitive knowledge-based economy requires investments that have its standards, which are defined by the Lisbon strategy 3% of GDP, is certainly a challenge that needs to be achieved in the next period, above all in the Republic of Croatia, and it is also not too excessive to stress that both the European Union and the whole range of other countries are making great efforts to achieve these financial standards and these financial amounts in terms of investment in science. Without this investment, unfortunately, Europe's global competitiveness will not be so likely, given that many other large and developed countries are investing significant funds, especially not over-emphasizing China, which should reach the desired 3% of GDP in the next few years. All these funding problems are also referred to by the European Commission, Mr Potočnik, who was recently in the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense certainly support of the Croatian Parliament, support of the board, wider political support in the Croatian state in order to ensure that we both have a common goal and I would say joint effort. It should be recalled that many multinational companies are investing huge financial resources, and here is just a quick note, perhaps from the pharmaceutical industry, Fazier invests annually in the research and development of $7 billion, which is almost seven times more than the budgets of the entire Ministry of Science. Promotion of science and is an important topic and should be given a special place and special importance. It is not without reason particularly highlighted as one of the objectives of the foundation. Promotion of science and popularisation of science in Croatian society is one thing I would say is a lasting activity that needs to ensure a better understanding and approximation of the science of citizens, marketing research and development as a product is certainly important, the importance of understanding the role and place of research and development in modern societies is also important in this respect the role of this foundation, so I would say the role of the Croatian Parliament, the role of the board, the role of our media must be more and more pronounced in this regard. Strengthening Croatian sciences in the interest of Croatian society, in the interest of the Croatian economy are certainly important activities very simply for the following reasons: success in the global world economy, is a proportionate level of education of a nation, one state, one nation and that fact we must be aware of because it is very clear and very simple. Success is also proportionate to the number of innovative, creative individuals, proportionate and their entrepreneurial spirit, and all of this should be developed in order to really increase the competitiveness of Croatian society on the global world market. That's what we're talking about I would say continuously today when we talked about the Croatian National Bank, yesterday when we talked about the budget, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Basically, all these problems play a more important and significant role in science, technological development and education in the economy. Because of the comparison here I can take advantage of the opportunity to point out, I have already said this several times a year by India producing 300 thousand top engineers, China is today the world's leading country in some of the new extremely important technological areas of the future such as nanotechnology, many have been surprised by this fact because most today think that the United States is. New global players are emerging in the scientific field and, in this sense, Europe is doing everything on the agenda of its economic competitiveness based on knowledge and access to the European Union is indeed linked to the fulfilment of all these requirements, and I certainly believe that this trust in terms of these objectives, in terms of these efforts, will do everything to contribute to the European Union's stronger competitiveness in the global market, support for higher education reforms in programmes and what has been realised over the past year significant, brain flow programmes certainly, I agree especially with what is involved in strengthening the quality of doctoral studies. We generally have at most colleges quite high-quality undergraduate studies, but the part where we lose our pace, where we lose quality, where we lose competitiveness, are unfortunately our doctoral studies, these are unfortunately the quality of many of our doctorates and it is recognised in this programme and certainly deserves full support. As regards the promotion of science, it is certainly necessary to highlight this new initiative that is related to the prize of science as a result of cooperation with the "New List" daily. Certainly in that sense you can and should do even more. A few words about funding. Here's an example: support for higher education reform, a very important task, but when you look at concrete financial resources, then you can see that 6 million kuna has been allocated for this important task, not less than 6 million kuna. The total annual budget, spent amounting to 3 million 980 thousand kuna and what is indicative, although small financial resources insisting on quality, were not spent, so there are 2 million kunas left, and here I can say my own personal experience when I led military technical advice from the Ministry of Defence 10 years ago in a similar situation where a man insists on quality, when he wants good, applicable programmes then unfortunately very often the money is not a key problem, the key problem is quality researchers, and I would say especially brave scientists who are able and willing to accept the challenge to solve some concrete problems. Here's one of my conversations with a respected Croatian academic physicist, once advisor to the president of the Republic for science around... Professor, here's the funding, you take on this particular important problem that we're facing, and what happened? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was no I would say courage, courage to accept people of some concrete challenges, responsibilities, and risks with top scientific references. And here, I think we should conclude. In any case, in the past year, the foundation has made an important step forward. It is an obligation to do something similar to that when you submit your 2006 report, and in any case in the Committee and in the Croatian Assembly this foundation will have full support and fully agree with what you said and in your conclusion that the foundation should and may be one of the holders of the activities of the National Action Plan 3% of the GDP will certainly be an important challenging task and we believe that it is one of the tests, one of the markers that we will be able to discuss here in the Assembly every year and realize that we are approaching those desired European standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68380	Thank you. For the HNS Club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68381	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I won't repeat what's said in the report. I guess you can't say that better than it's written. Namely, the report is about what the foundation did in the previous year standard good, systematically transparent, made exactly the way it should and expected from such an institution. What is particularly interesting in this opening section are given some parallels with similar foundations in Europe with which our foundation cooperates. So, for example, Finland gives a sum of 13% of the state budget in a foundation that supports scientific projects. I note that Finland is not a much bigger country than Croatia. She's richer today, she hasn't always been, and that's true. Croatia invested 50 million kuna in the foundation in 2002, which is about 0.07% of the budget. As a result, the total amount of the Foundation’s revenues is around 7 million kuna in 2005 and that is 0.007 of the State budget. We, of course, can put resources out of the state budget to put an end to our social and other fires. It will provide us with instant peace but it won't drive us anywhere. The funds invested in these purposes have a chance to move us somewhere. As much as we think about science, technological development and high education and their progress. Of course, these funds that are found in the foundation that are used for these purposes are not all, there are other sources, finally and sources from the Ministry of Science. But all of this together when you add up and multiply by some factor is a few light years away from 13% of the state budget. Science and technological development, therefore, scientific research and technological development are organically linked, but this is not the same thing. And finally, in the name of the foundation, in the name of the foundation, these two segments of action are separated. Base research and applied research which are directly used in industrial and other practices and are financed and implemented in different ways. What we're missing seems to me, I don't know what to call it, I don't think there's an appropriate term, but let's just say I call them trade research. In fact, we're a small country that can't do what the rich West can do for the simple reason that our incomes make it impossible for us to do so, so we can't do research that will bring revolutionary news in the world of science and industry. What we can do, we can educate our experts and our researchers so well that they currently recognize what it is in the Western world and what the Western world is worth for this reason or for that reason, the economic, environmental, technological, any other reason it can't and will not work and what the East doesn't know yet. It's a fluid state. Such segments change from week to week, from month to month. It is not easy to recognize and requires extremely high education and requires one tendency to analytical work, everything that is marked and scientific research. It seems to me that both in our higher education and in science today we are not paying enough attention. Let's see some projects. The Foundation funded projects according to its work programme, covered all three segments and these projects as well as scientific projects financed by the Ministry of Science amounted financially between 100 and 200 thousand kunas, so between 15 and 30 thousand euros, 20 to 40 thousand dollars. This is 1% of the average well-valued scientific project in those countries that really create technological and scientific progress in today's world. So, we're not imagining that something that deserves the Nobel Prize tomorrow is going to come out of the Ruger or the Medical Faculty or I don't know from which other university or institute in Croatia. That's not going to happen with these funds, unfortunately. What should in any case be praised by the foundation and what if you remember a year ago when we talked about the report one part of the speaker did not believe that it would happen is the organisational structure that should be and one selective approach that is not at all characteristic of the evaluation of either higher education or scientific projects in Croatia. Today in Croatia if you have high enough status, status means profession and report a project with a good enough title and a sufficient number of co-workers will certainly pass the competition announced by the Ministry of Science. That's not the case here. Obviously, the foundation was dealing not only with the need of a number of researchers in Croatia but with real selection at the level of excellence, by encouraging what is really worth. I think that's actually the most important thing that's happened because it shows an indication of where, where and how the Ministry of Science should move in the future. Thirty to 50% of the projects reported have been approved. At the Ministry's level, it's been moving between 80% and 90% so far, I don't know what it's like with these new projects, but in previous years, it's been between 80 and 90%. So the selection wasn't practical. The other big thing the foundation has done is cover all segments, stimulate higher education in the part where it is least stimulated in the segment of doctoral studies. A colleague, Cosic, said it was exactly the segment where we lag behind the world. Postgraduate studies are good for us and our students from pre-graduate, advanced undergraduate studies can be easily included in the world's postgraduate studies. Our graduates and I've had a chance to see quite a number of PhDs who, apart from the cover, don't deserve it, don't deserve that name. Our graduates are not at the level of graduates at valuable world universities. The objectives of such a foundation are clear and good and seem to be realized. The method of work is modern, intelligent, and especially important to say once again brave. So he does the selection and supports what's really worth it. But the area of work, or the breadth of work, is about 50 million kunas in a trust fund, or 6.7 million kuna, that are added annually to a fund that can be held. The area of work is inevitably limited and with this, with these resources very much cannot be done. Once again, the Croatian People's Party Club will fully support this report and I think we should commend the authors for what they have done and what they have shown here. I would point out only one negative side, and that is poor information about the Foundation's work in the general public and I must say even in the academic community. I know a lot of colleagues from Zagreb University, I asked them exactly who almost didn't know there was a foundation. Of course that's their problem, their values and their information. But I think it could be done more that the works of the foundation which is of great importance for Croatian society and better shown in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68382	Thank you. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, she's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68383	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President of the Foundation, please allow me to refer briefly to the report submitted by the Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. Well, at first I can say that I only support the report, but on the other hand, I agree with all those who claim, who are also asking, that in the coming years, a lot more funds than it is now, than in the budget for this year for the work of this foundation. So the amount of funds this foundation has to offer is, in fact, contrary to all these words that we've heard today, with the support of this foundation's work. It is contrary to the very foundation program that we adopted in this Croatian Assembly. So the purpose of this foundation is just to remind myself that it is working to promote science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia with the aim of achieving a vision of the foundation for the transformation of Croatian society into a knowledge society, the development of a world-renowned research and so on and so on, that I do not repeat it all together. So on the one hand, we have big goals, they have purpose, we have high goals and visions, and on the other hand we have 6 or 7 million kunas a year, and with these means we actually can't do anything about it. And that must be done we are aware and much more aware of all of us. It has to be done, here is one information that is also known is so, but it is not insinuable to repeat it once again that in Croatia we have only 4.1% of the population with completed higher school and only 7.8% of the population with completed higher schools. It's not just about Europe, it's about some of our neighbouring countries. It's also too small a share in the gross social product that we separate for science and technology. It's about 1.2% right now and our goal should be so we heard about 3%. With investments like this not only in the Ministry and through the Ministry, but also in this foundation, so it's hard to achieve. So I'm hoping that we'll finally make a step up here maybe a bigger budget for next year. So we'll see that as much resources as possible in this direction. What I would like to warn and suggest may be the future work of the foundation itself. to align projects with this purpose, with vision and so on. So I would like to point out that three problems that should in some way be problematicd and turned into programs for the work of the foundation itself. In my opinion, the foundation should therefore work to achieve a balanced and politicistic development in this system, in the system of science and education, in this sense, so that the whole of Croatia is a suitable area, so where would all those involved in science and technology be equally concerned with this work, right? That most of this work should be concentrated only in the city of Zagreb. Here's a paradigm for this can also be used for this year's science prize. This year, 29 state awards for science were awarded and some newspapers pointed out that only 3 such awards were distributed outside of such scientific workers outside the City of Zagreb. Last year was worse. At that time, all 29 awards were distributed to scientists, scientists working in the City of Zagreb. I think this is one indicator that we all have to imagine well. Croatia has, therefore, a lot of scientific institutions throughout Croatia. New universities are being established. We think that these universities should therefore have the support of the City of Zagreb if scientists can therefore achieve the same results as they do in the City of Zagreb. There's also another indicator that points to disproportionateness in this segment. Namely, the number of agreed scientific projects by universities in the Republic of Croatia tells us that the number of contracted scientific projects is the largest again in the City of Zagreb. And that percentage goes up... 72%, i.e. Up to 67%. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] So in the City of Zagreb it's... agreed projects by universities. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] In Dubrovnik, which has a university it is 0.2%, in Osijek 8.7%, in Rijeka 12%, in Split 8.6%, in Zadar 3.5%, therefore in Zagreb 67%. So I think it is very important for Croatia to establish a balanced development, i.e. to enable quality work for all of this segment in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. What the Foundation should also be alerted and working on all the time is the share of the private sector in science and technology. In fact, the data tells us that since the burial of science for science and technology in the Republic of Croatia, about 1.12% in 2003 is estimated to be only 0.45%. So it's all and it's a little bit on the state's burden again. So we need to activate the private sector to activate it in that segment. Therefore, stronger cooperation between science and the economy should be enhanced, the competitiveness of Croatian products should therefore be increased, and thus scientists in the Republic of Croatia should be activated. Because again, the data tells us that only 20% of scientists in the Republic of Croatia participate in the development of the economy. Until, for example. in America, in the United States, that amount is about 80%. So this is a very important link between science and the economy that increases the competitiveness of our products, so that the product is based on human intelligence, not on ordinary naked human labor, and thus we will get a bigger profit. So once again, I imitate this report. In addition to the fundamental observation that, for the work of the Foundation itself, as well as for the general development of education science, many more resources should be allocated than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68384	Thank you. Final review, Chairman of the Management Board, Pero Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68385	Your Honor, Mr. President, I thank you for the debate. I think there has already been an expression in this debate, i.e. some very important issues of Croatian scientific policy have been expressed. As you all know, we have completed the negotiations in this chapter and have temporarily closed this chapter. But that doesn't mean the job is done. We have a few big challenges ahead of us. The challenges will not only be a challenge for the government but also for the Croatian Parliament. First of all, it is a challenge to create a serious national plan to increase investment in research by 3%. This is a huge goal and this problem, i.e. the achievement of this objective as a problem, has many European countries, and we must move towards that goal. This objective, i.e. the action plan, will be a major challenge because not only should investment from the state budget be increased, i.e. from budgets, but investment from the private sector, industry and entrepreneurship should be significantly increased. Some calculations suggest that a more significant impact of science on the development of society and on the development of the economy should be around 600 million per year of active resources from the state budget, i.e. those directly funded research. And that part should be one-third. So two-thirds should come from the private sector, i.e. non-entrepreneurship or non-profit sources. And now we have the ratio the other way around, with that little segment, as mentioned in the 0.4% section, mostly in Pliva, and you all know what's going on with Pliva's research, and the question is how these private sector investments are going to reflect on that share of ours. The capacity to increase research investment is essentially measured either by the ability to develop a society or by achieving a developmental level achieved. Besides, we're gonna have to make a plan of science and society. We will have to make a plan for the mobility of researchers and the development of research careers. You'll probably have those plans on your desk very soon. And of course very soon you will see that you will need to think about the instruments of how to realise these plans and how to achieve those goals. The trust is just so sophisticated that it's one of the instruments that can and should be realized. First of all, it will be based on the principles of excellence. It was mentioned here in the debate that the level of complicity, or the desire for the competition of our scientists, is not large enough. That's exactly what the trust is working on. The treasure insists on excellence. It's not just a phrase, it's a job, and it's best seen, and we like to interpret it most so that we don't finance, but we invest. When we invest money, then we ask that the results of the research be shown to us, and we're not just looking at the end of the research, but we're looking for that after six months. And it's already happening to us that some projects, some funding, are being interrupted because the result that was projected has not been achieved. Of course, many scientists do not like it, but it is the only way to develop serious research and promote excellence. We ask you to support us in this exactly because there will be, of course, the greatest pressure and the greatest objections. I think it is a very good emphasis on the even development of Croatia, that is, science in Croatia. I think it's... And that's where we started in that segment that, of course, refers to the promotion of science, we started a science award along with a new list. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are preparing something similar with the Voice of Slavonia, and we are preparing similarly with "Free Dalmatia" just so that science promotion begins to take place in regional scientific centres. Of course, this year we are working very intensively on information, an information campaign to get closer to both the contents and objectives of the foundation to the general public. Of course, we didn't want to pay exclusively for the funds we have, but we were looking for partners in the daily newspapers and the media to promote science together. I thank you and remind you once again that you have a very important instrument for promoting and developing science in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68386	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Annual report by the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The Annual Report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. The proposed conclusion was unanimously with 901 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68389	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So here's after the previous debate that we had in this House, here's what most of the representatives' clubs have actually proposed, which we've also had, and I'd like to say that we've organized a workshop, a workshop that has been participated by social partners, trade unions, employers, to which all the chambers within the health sector have been participated, but also to which patients' associations have been participated. What exactly was the target of that workshop? The aim of the workshop was, of course, to actually analyse everything that was said in the previous debate, to analyse everything that was left and what could actually be done better and better in this package of laws and, of course, to come up with the best solutions which this moment will be in line with what the Parliament has adopted online, and this is the National Strategy for the Development of Health in the five-year period 2006-2011. So here I have to say that after this workshop, and then the Economic and Social Council unanimously accepted the reference of this package of laws to the parliamentary procedure, of course by continuing after the first reading to actually have certain materials and to have even better and better quality laws. Let me also give you one message from that workshop right now, so that's a message from employers' unions, chambers and patient associations, so here I am going to say, and that's next. A message from the workshop: "We have taken responsibility, we want no politics and we have a common goal, which is to improve the health system and health care in the Republic of Croatia". Here I have actually sent it as a single message from the workshop and I think that it should be taken as such because, as in the previous debate, health has been said so the question of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this is therefore not a matter of one party or a few, this is actually a matter of all of us together. And that is why here are four proposals before you, the Proposal for a Law on Obligation of Health Insurance, the Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act on Health at Work and finally the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. So let me, in a way, briefly show you and in some ways show what the changes that these radios have made in relation to the acts we had in the previous debate. What does the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act provide? One of the very important things that we wanted to stress inside is the increased responsibility of the founder for the obligations of health institutions, as well as strengthening the responsibilities of both founders and directors of financial operations of each health institution. In particular, 7 provisions which, in this legal act, are made in the Mandatory Health Insurance Act to allow for better quality and better financial control and responsibility of the founder, or director, and to call him hospital management in such a way that this responsibility goes down to the level of department, or clinic. Maybe this sounds a little weird, so why should doctors actually deal with financial calculations, why would they be careful how much it costs? But they're not doctors, they're department heads and clinic heads. They're not the people who operate best, they treat the best, no! These are the organizers who gather their team, who know what to do, but of course who follow what they have to do. Here we give one provision, they always say that the point of carrots and beatings, this is not a beating, but there are few carrots, and that is that we have determined that a quantum of decentralised means can be practically rerouted to covering health care costs in a particular health institution. This is also at the request of the Croatian Association of Employers in Health, on a proposal from employers and with the full consensus of trade unions, chambers and therefore patient associations accepted. I think it's a good step. Of course, here is actually a quantum that needs to be isolated, which will be isolated from the decentralised means, is absolutely restricted. Why? In order not to actually endanger investment or ongoing investment in the general hospital first. One of the very significant items that we bring here, I have already spoken of and last time, is the establishment of a health home on the islands. I want to make it clear here that there is not a single head of the municipality or the mayor, or a mayor who is now against the islands returning home to health. A lot of people were saying, so it's expensive, it's inappropriate. No, that's necessary. The island, an area of special state interest, mountain and mountain areas, is what Croatia must pay special attention to. The island medicine, that's why we call it, has its specifics. It is not true like that medicine that is practically provided and that health system that works in the land. And exactly, respecting these specificities, which means organisational, structural, whatever we want, must return home to health to the islands. Speaking of primary health care maybe one of the extremely significant changes that you now have in front of you is actually the formation of administrative councils in health homes. Here, yesterday on the current clock I mentioned, we often use it as a single sketch and that was the situation we had and that is that in certain administrative councils we still have not really represented all those who should be represented. First of all, you think of the tenants here. If there is a high level of expertise in the primary health care system, at this point about 92% of them are leased, I think it's normal for the tenants to be practically represented in the board and that's one of the proposals that we're absolutely going out with in full consensus. Not only that, but we are creating a basis in the perspective that the expert council at home must give consent to what the equipment will buy from decentralised funds. Why am I saying that? Because we had "x" cases where the decentralised funds bought equipment or which no one needed, or ultimately where things were being bought for some offices while others were left without anything, so we now have the case that, for example, in Novska, we have two dental offices that actually have machines that do not really serve anything at the moment and at least what they should be serving and that means providing dental services. And I think we actually have to eliminate that kind of practice absolutely. This law also decides to further define the structure of clinical hospitals, the establishment of general hospitals and the basis for defining departments, clinics and clinical institutions. What I'd really like to mention here is that we're introducing a new term. We're introducing the concept of the clinics of a cooperative facility. Why are we introducing that term? Some of our hospitals eventually rose above the general hospital rank. We even have individual departments where we have two or even three teachers. It's a turn to somehow both these people and these departments reward and single out, to give them one status that will, together with their scientific unit, still raise that hospital together, means that we stimulate not only professional but also scientific work in general hospitals, and in special hospitals. I think it's one logical and normal approach, the more we keep talking, and I think it's a general consensus. So we want to base our society and Croatia on knowledge and this is actually one of the most logical ways of knowledge. Therefore, the clinics of a cooperative institution and I must admit, here I will immediately say this is also the case with Slavonski Brod, with Varazdin, Zadar, Dubrovnik where we have a great quantum of teachers in colleges but which at this point are in some way not adequately valorised nor are their departments as such recognized. And I think, in fact, that these departments, too, so hospitals, but we also have to give individuals a certain confession, and this is exactly what I think is actually a step towards it. In a discussion conducted at the workshop and here, I am sorry to admit that, of course, they did not join and some parliamentary representatives I called who had extraordinary ideas in the previous debate that was being held here. I would like to say that we have sought in this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act to the greatest extent possible to adapt to the legislative solutions that exist in the European Union right now. I'll say that the initiator of it was unions unanimously. On their proposal, we practically placed a 48-hour working week. What does that really mean? This means that all duty and preparedness will be practically incorporated within 48 hours of a week. I repeat again, this is one of the European Charter Directives that comes out of the European Charter, and we have therefore taken over entirely but, of course, in accordance with our situation, we have given a transitional period of five years. Why is that significant? Because if we immediately introduced such a provision, it is clear that we would have one shortage of so many dictionaries, means the lack of specialists, and that is why we have given ourselves this period of five years to practically bring this number of specialists to such a quantity so that we can respect this regulation for 48 hours of working time a week as well. One of the things that has been very much talked about and I want to make it clear that behind this is absolutely all the patient associations in Croatia. There is no association of patients who are not behind this provision, which is the famous article 158, an article that allowed doctors working in a full - time hospital to work outside the hospital. Why were the patients against it and why did we end it? The patients were against it, and I absolutely support them because I think that kind of approach was extremely unethical. For example, the patient comes to the doctor, is ordered for examination, waiting list is three months but already in the afternoon for money from that same doctor in that same room on these same devices can be done. So you will allow it to actually be one extremely unethical approach that I repeat has condemned all patient associations in Croatia. That's exactly what gave us to think about where we did an additional analysis, so we saw that certain doctors who reported such work outside full-time so where they worked during the morning at the hospital and then in the afternoon at that same hospital but for money they had reported 1,000 and some reviews and the hospital received a few 100 kunas a year. And those are the facts. All of this forced us to eliminate this article, of course, but at the proposal of all union centres, and according to the Labour Act again, because the Labour Act says that everyone has the right to work outside full-time, but now they will pay both taxes and VAT until it was paid before, according to the Union's objection, we still limited that time to one third of the total working time. This means that we actually took that every doctor can work outside of the hospital means in the private sector but up to a third of the working hours by having the privilege of the director. And here we actually have in some way supported us in fact all of these solutions with exception I would like to say one, one union centre that opposed this kind of solution, but all the other union centres have accepted this. One of the things I absolutely think is extremely important, and here's what I was talking about yesterday in the current class, which is the structure of the Governing Council in health institutions. Yesterday we said the same cartoon a little bit, but we told the truth, it's not the truth that the president is a board of directors, and I think he's still a smoker. We have the presidents of the board of directors who also have a primary school. I don't think that's really allowed. I don't think it's allowed. They're academic institutions. These are institutions that employ a hundred, two hundred, so doctors of higher education, who hire nurses, who already have a higher and higher health school today, so you'll allow it inadmissible that as chairman of the Board of Directors we actually have a person who doesn't have a high level of expertise. And here we have again agreed with everyone who has been participating in the workshop that I must admit we have appreciated here, and that is that a representative of the workers themselves in the board structure does not have to have a high level of expertise. So here we found a compromise, but absolutely the President of the Governing Council, I think it must actually have a high level of expertise. And in the end, one of the newspapers that I want to present is quality control. And in the National Health Development Strategy, and in general, and we're all actually talking about that that quality is something that actually makes a system. Of course, that quality is evident and exists, but we have to valorize it, we have to follow it. Why? Not only for surveillance control, but for that reason, we could actually improve it in some segments. And right over here, we're putting in fact the necessity of continuous quality control in each institution at least once a year. This system that's actually supposed to be to say it's exclusively about the activity of the chambers we've actually modified a little bit now and I think it has to be at this point until we actually go into some other structure. Whether or not this will be the Quality Control Agency where the Health Quality Agency is that this system must actually be operated by the Ministry or the competent chambers. Allow me a few words on the proposal for a mandatory health insurance law. This proposal that is set before you is actually working on it at the workshop. I think that until the second reading we will have some other elements that are in line to the greatest extent possible with all the partners who participated in that workshop and some things that I think will be an additional step in our legislation. To begin two of the most important things that actually mark this law is our desire to gradually convert the Croatian Institute for Obligation Health Insurance into a national insurance house. And that's not an accident. If Slovenia could have done so, if the Czech Republic did so in the beginning, then it made a further 5 out of that national house, so today there are 6 national insurance houses, if there is one Germany and I think Croatia should have them. In other words, the Croatian Institute for Mandatory Health Insurance would therefore be a national insurance company outside the reach of the executive authority. So far, the Bureau has been run by the Administrative Council. You know that was appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We now propose that the executive body of the congregation, that the administration, excuse me, be managed by the congregation. The Assembly would be represented by representatives of units of pdorucal/regional/ self-government who elect their representative bodies so that up to 100,000 inhabitants are elected by one representative in the units of self-government with more than 100 thousand each for another 100,000. In doing so, the executive body of the congregation would practically be the administrative council. The administrative council will continue to have nine members, but the structure of the Governing Council will be different. It will include: 3 representatives of the Economic and Social Council, 2 representatives of the users and 1 representative from the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute of Obligatory Health Insurance. What was said here in the previous debate was a potential problem, but immediately suggested. I've been accepting it, it's an excellent proposal, and that's how we're going to choose actually members of that executive body of the Assembly, so the board of directors? I'm calling a contest. This will allow the highest quality people to really participate in the governing council. As regards the Director of the Croatian Institute for Obligatory Health Insurance and Deputy or Director or Deputy Deputy Director or Director, he will be elected by a public tender. And I think it's still the best way to completely detach this national insurance house beyond the reach of the executive government. What about the right to health care from compulsory health insurance or so on. A basket of favors? And right now, I want to make that clear, and that's what we wrote in the National Health Development Strategy, which is that this right is not going to change. They stay exactly the same as they were. And I don't see the need or reason to politicize that it actually shows here that I don't know that someone will be left without any rights, that they're having sex, that I don't know what. It's just not true, it doesn't answer the truth. And what's true is people say it's called a lie. Therefore, the basket service remains identical and can simply be checked by comparing practically old and new law. It doesn't make any difference. And I think that's supposed to be accepted. Otherwise, like we said, it's a lie, and it's called a lie. What's a big step for this law, I think it's actually forming a new list of medicines. That was a lot of talk. We were also sponsors of the Round Tables, which were organized by the Associations of Patients and which were participated by our actually distinguished experts in the field of primarily clinical pharmacology. Clinical pharmacology is actually a profession that studies the use of medicinal products in clinical medicine. What is important is to say that there is often an idea that we will reduce medicines. No, I don't. No, that's not true. All medications that are on the list now will remain on that list. But what we want, we want to adapt practically to the solutions that some other countries have. Solutions that on the one hand make it possible for patients to benefit. Why? I'll explain a little later, and that allow fiscal stability in this area. Maybe the best way, and this is what I actually brought, so I can copy who's interested, it's our Croatian journal for pharmacotherapy, it's called "Parmaka." I took the Croatian I didn't want to take any foreign ones, although the literature is in there and you can also see foreign literature. This was written by one of our impressions, and I may not say the biggest but certainly one of the most recognizable experts in clinical pharmacology, Professor Vrhovac, where it is actually very nice and clear that the list we want to make right now exists in one Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, but also Norway. I don't have to say that Norway is one of the countries with the largest gross social product. So a country that is very, very wealthy and that stands out for health care an extremely large quantity of money. What's important here is to mention that before we went into this drug policy that we're proposing to do some things. In 2004, for the first time, it was actually made and then implemented a Regulation on the price of medicines. What does this Regulation bring? He took one very simple modus, which is that we took the price of every medicine on our list and compared that price to the prices in Slovenia, Italy and the Czech Republic. And these reference prices dropped the three countries for the originals by 10% and for generic drugs by 25%. That marked a hell of a lot. It's like the battlefield she's ruled for the price of drugs she's finally contained. And we, of course, and also at our meetings where our clinical pharmacologists went away, where we often talked about that Croatia doesn't actually have some kind of clear, transparent list of price formations, finally actually came to the fact that we have a certain rule. And this Roule book or actually the Regulation that we introduced actually marked a major milestone in general in pharmacotherapy and made it possible, and I will honestly say it here, which is that in 2005 we end up relatively well within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. This means that the lack of income compared to expenditure was 570 million kuna. What's important is to say more about the list of medicines. So, I'm saying that all the drugs will be on that list. By determining and giving preference to generic medications. Why? So if one France has 55% of the medicines on its baseline, if one rich United States, one UK has more than 50% of the generic drugs on its list and Croatia has 34%. So the question is why. And that's one of the things that we need to promote and that we want to put on the basic list. In other words. For every drug in which we have a version, we will make that version, and so it is the same drug, and everyone who's been on those Round Tables has made sure that, therefore, these versions, and the exact same practically medicines that are where and where the lower prices will be our reference prices that we will pay. And every drug that has its version, of course, we're not gonna pay for this most expensive one than we're gonna pay for this cheaper one. And that I repeat again the principle that is here in a large number of European Union countries practically in force. What will it mean for the system, and especially for the citizens and the patients? The current way of forming a list, and this was one list where everything was pushed from all sides, made it impossible for new innovative medicines that had proven advantages to the existing pharmacopoeia to be kept on the list. And we had a case, and here's what we're going to say, Glivek, Mapter, Lantus, here's what we're not going to advertise anymore, all of these are medications that were on average four to five years waiting to get on the list. For example, for Mampu neighbouring some country, Bosnia and Herzegovina, then Serbia-Montenegro already had Mampur on the list, we didn't have it. I think they're inadmissible things. We need to focus on most European countries. If European countries are taking some medicine and it is proven to be so much more effective than the medicine in the existing pharmacopoeia, it should be absolutely accepted. And here are 42 new innovative drugs, so basically in the last half of the year we've accepted on the list. Why could we do that? Because we got the right financial space for that, the financial space related to the administrative fee. So with this new list, we will allow quality new medicines that have no alternatives, which have great advantages compared to the existing pharmacopoeia to come right on the list. The other is standardization of regulation. You know, we actually have a whole series of potential conflicts of interest right now, big lobbys of the pharmaceutical industry, high pressure of the pharmaceutical industry to prescribe certain medicines, and that often these drugs are actually prescribed and sometimes unnecessary. Administratively with the formation of this list of medicines, and in accordance with the experiences of other countries we will standardise the practical and prescription of medicines and what is extremely important, and this is to enable fiscal stability. And based on this, and here's another message from the round table, I want to say it, and that's the question is, are those who don't support this list whether it's a cause of ignorance, uninformedness, I'm not going to say maybe a stronger word or maybe it's even a conflict of interest, so maybe I don't know pharmaceutical firms, maybe they're sponsoring someone's campaigns, someone's acting or something? So, that's one question, I'm passing it along nicely from a round table where it's actually open that why someone wouldn't support a list of medicines that actually exists in a large number of European countries. What I would like to say is, in fact, that we will continue with round tables because this is actually the best way to practically inform the public. I'm sorry, no, it's worse. Today I've received an association from Gorican, and here I warmly welcome them, and I hope you'll welcome them too. They're up here. I received them today because we actually had countless open and unresolved questions about children, but also for adults with special needs, today I made it clear to them and promised that here will the Croatian Parliament support these legal acts, that they will support them unanimously because they are for the benefit of Croatian health care. [[Applause.]] Why? In order to actually regulate the provisions relating to transport in practice, however, that some things that were not regulated would be better regulated, which means transport in, for example, mountainous areas, for transport on islands or areas of particular national interest. And in the end, just one more word, and that's about the interest of patients and patients related to this legal package. For the first time we have practically given one provision and I don't think it will say revolutionary, but it will have in fact quite certainly its great implications, and that is where we have clearly defined that if some form of health care cannot be achieved within a certain period of time, the patient can do the same search or review in the private sector by refunding its costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68390	Minister, you're gonna have to, like, three minutes... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68391	I want to say that this is actually going to be in the details regulated within the general acts of the institute, and I think that this is one big step, and here I expect that not only this provision, but that you will fully support the whole package of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68392	Thank you. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68393	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting Mr. Minister's claim that he finds it unethical that healthcare professionals can do extra work in a health care facility where they are in a working relationship. This is simply not true because the current ministry's proposal to amend and supplement laws has been introduced. Secondly, the minister says a basket of services remains the same, and those who say otherwise lie. That's also not true. The basketball may remain the same, but the basket is not available to everyone but only to the rich and not only that. Article 66 even seeks to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, contrary to your oaths, to restrict the use of the right of compulsory health insurance to emergency medical care. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68394	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68395	Well, Mr. Minister says he spoke to the Gorican parents today so that things they didn't regulate would be better regulated. Mr. Minister, even if it were a little correct, you would admit here that you and your parents nine months ago took away the right to finance the transportation of their children to go to treatment and you would also be correct to say that these parents fought for a full 9 months to get that right back to them and thanks to their struggle, you have returned that right today. That would be correct of you if you said so.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68396	Thank you. The minister said he spoke to the attendings today at the assembly. That's true. You did not correct the incorrect allegations, but used the instrument of an incorrect allegation to accuse the minister of something you can say in your personal debate. I give you a warning. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68397	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr. Minister said the proposed legal solutions bring improvement in transportation to patients in islands and mountainous mountain areas. However, as far as improvements are concerned, it is not true because we had a transport for all patients resolved by earlier legal provisions, so that the legal provisions for all patients and also for these children mentioned by a colleague Opačić up to 100 kilometers away, and now only one part of it returns, so this is not an improvement, this is only part of the return of what we had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68398	Thank you. It's on behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš. ... Oh, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm already deep in the debate. So the committee's rapporteurs, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the esteemed representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68399	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 56th session of the Committee held on 26 June 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act as well as the other three draft laws which were united in this debate. The Committee discussed the draft law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, a united debate was held on all four laws. During the broad discussion, the committee members held that the solutions proposed in the Amendments and Supplements Act proposal were an improvement and a step forward in relation to the solutions set out in the previous reading. Certainly, the goal of this as well as the other three health laws is to fix the current situation. The organisation of the system by applying the provisions improves and charges and contributions to a certain extent reduces losses. All proposed solutions stem from the adopted national strategy. A significant and important amendment to Article 5 of the Law, which determines that specific health care is carried out by workers in accordance with the Health Insurance Act, health protection in order. It is particularly important that funds for specific health care are provided from the means of contributing to the protection of health at work under a specific law. This is an important improved solution to the present proposal, which envisioned the cost of implementing the specific health care of workers being provided by the employer rather than the basis of the contract with the healthcare organisation. Such a solution would question the quality of health protection at work. The establishment of a basic network of health activities has previously provided appropriate opinions in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as in the applicable law, not the Ministry of Health and Social Care, as proposed in the previous debate. As an important change, the committee members assessed the proposed organisation of work and working time in the basic network of health activities. It has been pointed out that health institutions in the basic network of health activities are obliged to provide health care continuously in one, two and more shifts in working time, shifts in working time, preparedness and duty. The members of the board also agreed with the planned strengthening of the financial responsibility of the founders of the hospital institutions as well as the responsibilities of the director for the operations of the health institution. These measures should lead to the strengthening of the stability of the financial system. Some members of the board were of the opinion that a debate on Croatian health should be opened primarily because, in their opinion, the system cannot function with this kind of funding. The following conclusion was reached after an extensive debate with the majority of votes: Under 1. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act in the text is hereby adopted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Next, the Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Health Insurance in the text is adopted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Next, the Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Health Insurance in the text is adopted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the Health Insurance Act on Health Protection at Work is adopted as proposed by the Republic of Croatia. And number two. Any proposals, objections and opinions expressed in the debate on these laws will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68400	Thank you. The Legislative Committee and local, regional self-government? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68401	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary! First of all, I'd like to say that the worst laws that have the ambition to change the system thoroughly are nothing changes with these laws. These are the worst possible laws. And if it were possible in this House to conclude that such laws are not proposed because if laws are bad, then the system learns to function with bad laws. Permanent amendments to the law and therefore we are known not only in the health system but it is not a fundamental change in real relations within any system is not a good change. And unfortunately, despite all the principles, wishes and visions that are contained in the reform and are in the light of these laws, it is my belief that after these amendments to the law, these are complete changes given the scope of the material and the laws that change that nothing more serious is actually going to happen in our health system. In our health system, which has actually changed more seriously since the very beginning, that we do not now enter those periods of socialism but the basic structure of our health system has been more or less the same for 15 years and will not change with this law, and it will remain the same more or less. Of course it's not possible not to support the intensities of the law. They are detained in the National Strategy, which is a centralised policy of standards, standards, planning and control, decentralisation is managed, strengthened primary health care, mandatory information and insurance and rationalisation of funds and distributions according to fundamental principles such as equality, solidarity, accessibility, rationality and quality. Who wouldn't agree with that? But by reading these laws, it's not really clear how we're going to put those high principles into our health practice. So I'll try to say something about it. I also agree with what is stated here in the light of these laws that a comprehensive and profound reform of health funding is urgent and necessary as it says in all the materials, but it is absolutely not clear how this reform will succeed in this way. The basic institution of our healthcare system is the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. This institution, it's a socialist fund and it's not a modern insurance house. It's a socialist fund whose structure, how management has not changed more or less in the last 15 years, for sixteen years, that we don't enter before that. We don't have any other national insurance houses in mandatory health insurance. We've got one. What does that mean? This means that there is no competition in that segment and that means there is no choice. If you do not have the option then there is no talk that you have significantly changed the model of management or model of insurance in the health system of the Republic of Croatia. Not only do you no longer have state insurance houses as much as possible, but of course you don't have any private insurance houses, and that's a prerequisite for relations in that segment to be brought to competition level, and competition is, of course, an assumption that quality would be achieved. Modern countries, which also have difficulties in this regard, have several national insurance houses, some of which are private insurance companies and those that compete with each other according to the standards and principles set by the state and the health ministry. There is no such thing with us, and it will not be achieved by these legal changes either. The same situation is with those who provide health services. You don't have any competition here either. And that state should set standards and private hospitals and state hospitals should compete which will succeed by these standards attract the patient and give him the best protection. There is no such thing in Croatia. There may be little in Zagreb or perhaps in some major centre, but in fact most of our citizens are condemned, referred to their county hospitals, to their homes of health and there is a story more or less finished. So there's no competition. If there is no real competition, then of course there can't be any real quality. In supplementary health insurance there is competition, there is private insurance but there is no other than diagnostics, which covers this supplementary health insurance, in fact, you have almost nothing more. To make things worse, some private insurance companies negotiate services with public health institutions and thus burden instead of discharging our health system. So you have someone who comes with additional health insurance to check into a public health care facility and asks to go across the line compared to all those who do not have the opportunity to have additional health insurance. And so that supplemental health insurance instead of discharging public health care it actually puts even more burden on it. These are therefore fundamental issues and I do not understand how these legal proposals will be translated into these fundamental changes to the health system of the Republic of Croatia. Here we talk about how decentralisation should be carried out in the health system and everything we have had for the past two and a half years has actually been a process of emphasising or avoiding decentralisation. The plan to modernise the hospital system that was adopted in 2003 was completely collapsed. The reason for the ruling majority and parliamentary majority and the government is that it is against the law. We have proposed to amend the law that modernization of all county hospitals in this country which, some of them in very difficult condition that it would not be illegal and that our law was rejected so there remains a reason that this remains illegal and this is why no more or less county hospitals have been approached? Why is this modernisation stopped and where serious steps have already been taken to prepare and then some hospitals have decided to modernise according to the political assessment of those who decide and that is, of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So here, too, the law was not a fundamental reason, but it was just an excuse why this vast, ambitious but very important programme that should not depend on what government adopted did not implement and why did this programme collapse? The situation with our county hospitals is such that it is clear that the county today in the Republic of Croatia cannot be responsible for what the law puts in its jurisdiction. She can't manage the hospital, she can't manage the hospital, she doesn't have enough resources, she doesn't have enough resources to modernise the hospital and she can't even maintain this cold drive of the hospital because it's all determined by the central government, the health ministry. The county's powers as founder are merely to appoint or not name a director. Everything else, the number of beds, the standards, the pay, it's all in central government intelligence. And then the central government sets limits to the county hospitals and itself makes collective agreements and thereby increases the salaries that go from the budget of these hospitals to which they set limits. And when they are, these limits are breached, then the directors are responsible. So what director under such circumstances can keep the system financially balanced? If there is no authority, if the government makes collective agreements for him and we know that wages are actually still the largest part of the costs of our health system as such director appointed by the county administration and I repeat it is the only one of its powers, how can that director keep that system financially good? And of course that's why our hospitals are in debt, and that's where our policy comes back again. The directors were removed, part of them because they were in debt, and then the new directors came, they made new debts under these circumstances because it was not possible otherwise, but they were no longer replaced because they corresponded to the political preference of the one who appointed them. So it doesn't matter if you made debts, how you did business? Can you even do business? But the important thing is that you didn't belong to one political option, so we'll name new ones so that today two of the most significant directors, or two of the most significant institutions, if I can evaluate it, the Dubrava Clinical Hospital and the Rebro Clinical Hospital in the city of Zagreb, have the highest debts and these are the directors who appointed this authority because the previous directors made debts. If we are to apply these criteria, then these directors should be replaced, or if it is clear that this is not sustainable, then change the way in which the limitations of the hospital institutions are at all determined so that these directors have some powers and that these directors can manage something. In my opinion, these are fundamental issues that tear apart our health system. I'm not talking about the financial situation. That was a lot of talk here. There was, of course, the collection of pears and apples, comparisons with 2000, then 2003, etc. It should not be returned during that period. It's not much use. We did so much, so the public did not benefit much. But the fact is that health institutions in the Republic of Croatia are a complete system of health care in large debt. There's no more regular publication of that data, but it's about 4 to 5 billion kuna. It's about debts that go beyond 300 days, which, of course, has other negative repercussions. This must be a constant topic of our health policy. So this system hasn't solved that question either, and I don't see how it's going to be able to solve this system that's now being proposed here. There are, of course, certain things that are impossible not to say hello, which are practical things, but that is why it was not necessary to change the law. The telemedicine issue. Of course you should say hello. Strengthening health care on our islands as a declarative intention. Introduce a unique internal structure of health institutions, where possible, where logical, of course that should be welcomed. But, of course, that's not enough for these fundamental shortcomings to change the system. This would lead to some improvements, partial ones, that could have been done without changing the law. But these fundamental relationships, I'm afraid this legal package is not touching. And that's, of course, what's asking us not to give our support to these legal proposals. It's about the inability of private practice in health institutions where doctors work. Mr. Secretary says it's unethical to have such a system. Of course it's unethical. And that was unethical from the very beginning. And because such a way has also prevented the definition of public health relations, but also the profiling of the private health system. But this model that a doctor has the right to the instruments of the hospital, to work at the hospital as a private practice, that model was introduced by this government. Wasn't it logical and visible that even then it wasn't ethical? So working at the hospital on his own instruments after working hours, it was there before, and so it was introduced during this government to solve the problem of strike by a doctor who threatened, etc., etc. So these are the things we say hello, that's how it should be solved. But it's a partial thing and it's stupid to call it now as something that's unethical when it's been there for so many years. And of course there is one provision here, that is, in the light of the law that says that prevention should be the one that should be the basic health care. Of course it is. It's just that prevention is something too deep and, of course, it's not possible to solve any kind of organisational structure and no laws. The law can possibly help, but you can't teach people overnight not to drink, not to smoke, to adhere to some basic rules. You can appeal to their responsibility, but that's not a question that can be solved in some important dimension by law. This is a question addressed by years of education, raising the level of culture of health care, health relations in general, etc. And in the end, I will sum up the views of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party. We therefore believe that a truly comprehensive and profound reform of the financing system and of the overall organisation of health care is necessary, that our health system is outdated, that it cannot be considered modern in any segment, that the problems that, year after year, from government to government, we have from minister to minister in this system are due to the wrong foundation of the whole system. But we believe that this problem will unfortunately not be solved by these legal proposals. And these are reasons why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will not support these legal proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68402	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68403	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Jozo Radosh has made so many incorrect allegations that I would like to see who gave him the information and wrote this report to talk to him. And until then, next. A fellow Radoš advocates and says the solution in privatising is several health insurance, privatising hospitals, building private hospitals. Well, that's the system we've been fighting for 15 years. Thank God. Because that would mean market, marketing medicine where services are 10 times more expensive than naked in our social. My three-hour surgery service at the hospital costs 40 kuna, in America it costs $4000. It's a social-private difference and it really doesn't need to be discussed. Furthermore, he says salaries are the greatest burden. Yes, in all countries, wages are 70 to 75% of the total expenditure as is ours. That the principals were removed because they were in losses. That's not true. No director has been removed for loss but has been removed because he has not accepted a new health care system. KBC Rebro and Zagreb, cited them as bad examples with large debts. These are two institutions that have shown in two years from a deep negative have entered into a positive business. They are now operating within 2 and a half percent of revenue expenditure. And these are brilliant examples. In the end,... Introduced in his government in 2002. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were yelling at all our mouths to stop it, we couldn't, and now he's attributing it to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68404	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68405	Me too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68406	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68407	Well, I don't see where Mr. Hebrang fixed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68408	Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68409	My incorrect allegations, therefore, hurt Article 209. Rules of Procedure. He was expressing his views. When it came to wages he confirmed my basic quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68410	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, Article 209. The esteemed representative Hebrang, in his opinion, corrected your claim, and he is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68411	I wasn't talking about privatizing hospitals. I wasn't talking about creating new private hospitals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68412	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I'm grateful. Please sit down. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68413	Thank you very much. Well, there's a lot of things being said that should be fixed, but I'm just gonna try some things. A colleague said that a practical technological reconstruction and reconstruction of hospitals were interrupted, which is not true. It was only followed by the law passed during the former government, which simply prohibits the state from investing in a county hospital. He also said that some directors, whether he mentioned Dubrava and KBC Zagreb, were replaced because of the bad business that these new directors also did the same things and were not removed. That's not true because two things are being chased. All these hospitals had inherited debts, it's quite another thing, debts towards suppliers, but the directors who are in the KBC now and in Dubrava have shown that they can control the costs and in their mandate costs from 24% that went down to 2% to 3% before that, so they proved to be able to control the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68414	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68415	I'm sorry, buddy... But I have to react. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Bacic did not correct my incorrect allegations again, so he injured Rules of Procedure 209. I said the modernisation of county hospitals was suspended. In 3 or 4 hospitals, it was Zabok, the Chakovec, it seems to me that Varazdin, it was continued, everywhere else it cared, therefore it is not a correction of the incorrect assumption. You said it was against the law, I made it very clear how you treated the change of the law, therefore it was not a correction of the incorrect assumption. You can only paralyze in a replica or some other way, but don't do it that way. It's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68416	It's not about the violation of Article 209. We have already said countless times, we cannot now create an investigative commission and determine whose claim is correct, whose is incorrect. Since the second time you have abused the Institute of Infringements of the Rules of Procedure and under this institute you have pollemized with a representative who has corrected your incorrect claim in his opinion I give you in accordance with Article 214 of the Notice. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68417	Mr. Vice President, I don't think I hurt you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68418	What article is injured this moment?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68419	214. You have given me a warning, and you have no reason to do so, and I ask that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system be made known about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68420	All right. The parent committee will make its statement at its next session. Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68421	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that work in hospital spaces is out of business time, i.e. in the premises of the same institution where an employee works was introduced during this government, this government or your government as the gentleman declared himself was introduced in 2002. And secondly, the financing of county hospitals and health homes has been left to units of regional administration that exceed their possibilities. It is precisely the new law and the possibility that decentralised funds are being used in this regard that is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68422	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to have to look back on my dear friend Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68424	No, no, you can correct the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68425	And correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68426	No, no, just correct the incorrect quote, don't look back at the exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68427	So, dear fellow more insurance and more service providers are not a guarantee for better quality as well. So I'm estimating it as incorrect as it isn't. ... No, no, it's you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68428	Don't pollemize, I beg you to correct the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68429	And more healthcare providers that this should be offered to the public, i.e. patients, in order to be a better quality for health care. That's incorrect. Therefore, just as it is incorrect when you have in democracy many more parties, to a measure that, but a lot of small parties are not, so move to... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68430	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. ... And I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My sin, my sin, my sin too great. I apologize to the esteemed representative, Dorotei Pesic. Correction of an incorrect quote by Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68431	... I would correct my colleague Jose Radosh's incorrect claim that private practice could not have been done if it were public health... [[Specially enabled.]] that's the government's decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, it's not true. It's not the government's decision, it's the government's decision until January 3, 2000, which means the government. At that time, doctors who worked in both public health and were able to work in private practice, of course only differentiated professors and primariums, and in 2002 other mortal doctors were introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68432	Thank you. Honored representative Dorotea Pesic on behalf of the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68433	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, before I say anything about these laws. First of all, I would like to point out that we at the IDS club were disappointed and bitter with these proposals that came before us because a month ago we had a previous debate and in this previous debate were really extensive discussions and debated about the strategy and in this same package of health laws. Now, in the first reading procedure, the same proposals were completely sent. It means that there is no willingness or sensitivity to respect the proposals that have been crystallized and stemmed from the debate itself. Today we have heard that there have been many round tables fragmented to be praised on these round tables, etc., but what is before us is a piece of paper that speaks for itself and we can say, at least so it seems to us that these health laws have been written in our opinion by economists because they have managed exclusively with numbers and papers, of course between 2 and 3 billion kunas are saved because I can't simply and I don't want to believe that these and these laws were written by doctors who took the Hippocratic oath to be their patient in the first place and not the money, and that they chose out of their own desire to be human. Therefore, these laws are written only to save money and cannot be good for any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. That I am right to prove the memo of the Croatian Medical Chamber which I believe was received by all MPs and I will quote you only one segment or one passage from it. "The Croatian medical chamber is fully built on the National Health Strategy and, in particular, on the proposed package of laws and their negative consequences, leading to the collapse of a health system that has further generation of losses, a decline in quality and growing dissatisfaction of patients and doctors." Health reform is an important thing. We can't play with citizens and treat them like guinea pigs and everything to carry out savings and after a few years we realize that we haven't even had a reform. This is an attempt to transfer all costs to the patients themselves. And when we talk about health care, whether it's primary, specialist or hospital treatment, the situation is getting worse every day, because the cost cuts from year to year must make our health care worse. If we look at the average age of Croatian citizens then we get to an average of 74 years, which is 75th place in the world by the World Health Organization. So we have a pretty old population who needs to be treated and we also have a circus of about a million children and these are very sensitive groups of citizens, although I must say that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia needs health care. Croatia needs a full health insurance reform because practically all health problems stem from a poor concept of health insurance. One such reform certainly requires a lot of effort, time and knowledge and a lot of material resources and should include all relevant experts in this area and thus make maximum use of the experience of other countries, especially those in transition. Perhaps we should look up to our neighbours of Slovenians who have good solutions in many segments of health insurance even though they have learned from their own mistakes. For example, ten years ago, they introduced a 5% to 75% participation but it turned out that few people could pay, and additional health insurance was introduced, but the premiums proved too high for the majority of the population. Now they have introduced four paying classes so that the poorest will pay four times less insurance premiums. So reverse redistribution in favor of the poor and unlike the former who went to the wealthy. Furthermore, the hospital's finances have been resolved in a way that has abolished funding according to hospital... For days, you've been introduced by the diagnosis of what we think about IDS is the best model. Why is that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, not all increases in the limit have proved effective. Maybe I should explain it to you, for example, at maternity homes. Infants who did not have a sufficient number of children and births extended maternity leave in the hospital or also had to lie in the hospital for surgery for six days and now all this can be done in day surgery. It is certainly justified that operations are paid by diagnosis and not by day spent in the hospital because in such a way 70% of patients go home the same day. It is, of course, linked to a 30% reduction in lying down in Slovenian hospitals and 32% of beds were released, which, of course, automatically shortens the waiting order for the hospital. In this way, Slovenians halted the growth of health deficits. After several reforms in drug policy, they failed to immediately reduce drug prices, but managed to take up growth and slowed down from 18% to 8% of drug policy deficits. After these measures, Slovenians received more efficient health care, which costs less. That is why we at the IDS Club are urging the Ministry of Health to start a systematic reform of health insurance in order to give Croatian citizens the health care they deserve. Because the citizens of Croatia can't wait to see both the hospital bed and the hospital bed without talking about surgery or the installation of orthopaedic aids. That's why we in IDS suggest that a patient who fails to complete his examination within 30 days may go to a private registered facility for certain activities with a cost refund by HZZO. In addition, if an operation is not performed within three months, the patient may go to a private institution with cost-refunding. There are a lot of problems in our health system but we will not solve problems until the moment when we do not start solving problems from the ground up, not constantly changing the roof on the fragrant house without foundation because the losses in business at all levels of health institutions are the result of the inconsistencies of the overall health and health insurance system. The gap between existing health infrastructures with users' rights and financial frameworks for the coverage of these rights and this can be only rooted changes in the system and such a solution is not offered under these laws. For example, the counties do not have the resources to provide in their budget funds to cover the losses in the business of their health institutions because the means to carry out the health activities of these institutions are not decentralised and are in the state budget. Countys generally do not have instruments, other than party instruments, of course, as always to affect the amount of funds allocated to its institutions. So until the system is built on the new foundations of the county, they cannot participate in the coverage of losses, but the losses must be covered by the state budget. They cannot be in debt to the county to cover the debts of general hospitals that have incomes several times higher than the county budget. For example, the Istrian County had to be in charge of 70 million kuna to cover the losses of a general hospital in Pula. But the Ministry of Finance reacted without delay and immediately issued a loan agreement. This indicates that decentralisation of the health system must be an imperative of health reform but not of decentralisation of problems and losses. Financial decentralisation should be carried out as well as decentralisation of powers. We should maybe go back to that SIZ model when it was really decentralisation in action. At that time, the funds collected in a given area remained there and were deployed locally. Now it might be good to start off with at least one percent of the total income that could be available on its own. In our opinion, the biggest problems in the future will also be hospital problems for not being established, and for the lack of documentation on how to act because patients will self-initiately come to hospitals for processing? Well, I guess this should be arranged in primary health care, family doctor, or at first aid. And such a system again when hospitals must process generate losses. I must also look back at work at all levels that it is non-transparent and that is also an example of specialization. Except that the minister himself makes decisions on the number and structure of specialists the public does not know how much specialization is in which hospital so hospital directors from these approved specialisation funds cover in part other costs which, of course, is not good. But it's not against them when they're trying to function in the best way possible. We also see the problem of education and education, and we think that this is a very important segment if we look back and compare with the countries of the European Union we come up with very poor data, which is that we have only 2.4 doctors on the 1,000 inhabitants, which is at the very bottom of the European Union's scale. Every year at the medical schools in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek and Split there are fewer and fewer students. Well, any further reduction in the number of doctors will certainly have a fatal impact on our health care. Another problem is the problem of professional staff, which is very large. And it's also not a good way to make a specialisation plan, and the plan as we've already said is brought by the minister himself, and then the specializations are divided by, I'd say to the party key, not to the real needs. We think that specialization should be granted to anyone who will also fund it. And these are privates who will finance the specialists themselves, and surely they will finance what they need. And also units of local self-government that will provide funds in their budgets for those they need in the area. There may be another segment that is important here, which is that these laws do not deal with prevention, and the prevention needs to be insisted. No project has been made to have a healthier population and, of course, save it for the treatment itself. I'm not going to talk about the directors who've been replaced so there won't be any more salves to correct the incorrect allegations, okay, okay. But let's move on. Maybe I should just look at a few articles in the law itself. This Regulation shall enter The health insurance law, health insurance and health protection at work are referred to the compensation of wages at the time of temporary incompetence due to injuries at work. That's certainly good, but I think you should make a distinction that for those who haven't used protective means at work that they shouldn't have paid and that they're not being costed for wages and disability. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act bids pretty much with blood donors. Articles 15 and 21 where the two articles may be in college because at one point men are mentioned number 35, for women 25, and later for men 25, and for women 15. I think we should also have an article 20 on treatment with medical complications resulting from the use of health care outside compulsory insurance, which would mean only in private institutions and, in our view, should be for all institutions. So they're also the ones inside the health insurance. In the proposal for a Health Protection Act, the article 49, which speaks of volunteering is interesting, so it is very interesting that there are no criteria for volunteers. So the criteria don't exist. The competition can't even be called, so volunteers are selected, so volunteers are chosen by different criteria, by family, by friendship, by shopping, and after volunteering they are certainly easier to get a job in that institution. Article 53 refers to the duration of working hours of 48 hours and includes regular work including work on duty and preparedness and there is no, no, is it an accidental failure or not? It was forgotten that he was entering all this together and preparing for what was an integral part of the work. And I think it should get into the captain's office as well. And it should be incorporated in that same article that, after duty, it is necessary to leave the workplace and not to stay and work on a normal working day. As far as our health system is concerned, we have witnessed that our rights have been seized. Now with these laws, they only partially return, and in the opinion of the IDS Club, firstly, to conclude what is important for us to have one basic health standard, which includes under the first decentralisation of finance and powers. The introduction of four categories of healthcare insurance payments, setting deadlines for the examination, setting deadlines for the execution of operations and mobilising young people for enrolments in medical schools and the possibility of complete liberalisation and specialisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68434	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68435	Thank you very much. I have to correct as many incorrect allegations as the light will allow. First, the Croatian Medical Chamber did not refuse these laws, but after agreeing to accept all of them, including the strategy. Second, health care isn't getting any worse than it is getting better. But it can't be seen, as the colleague said, from the life expectancy, because the profession says that health care only participates with 10%. 90% are the standard of nutrition and everything else. And according to this life expectancy, thank God we reached Europe last year and now a year longer is expected not in the European Union but in Europe. A '91. We've fallen three years below because of 20,000 people killed. Next thing you know, it's not true that the SIZs are better than today's system, the SIZs are better than today's system. We shut down the SIZs because they spent 30% more than today. Otherwise, every decentralised financial system in the world spends 30% more than centralised. And the light's on, so I'd just say it's wrong for the law not to deal with prevention. This is the first time in law prevention is included in the obligation of a primary healthcare doctor and is paid for by a special preventive examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68436	Thank you. Well, just for the sake of sympathy, you could've skipped something.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68437	I skipped 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68438	Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Buchanan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68439	I quote, "These laws are written only and only to save money.". That's not true. Page 9 of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Health Protection tells you how much money it will take for only one segment, which is the establishment of new health homes on the islands. And second correction, privates will finance what they need in specializations. It's completely incorrect. They can specialise in what they can offer knowledge and education based on the network and specialization that are needed not for him but for patient health.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68440	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68441	Thank you very much. Well, here's a lot. I'll try to name some. My colleague said that these laws transfer all costs to patients. That's incorrect. For patients, only those participations of 30 kuna per month are administrative fees. So in these bill proposals nothing changes in the patient's participation. The list of medications is what's called the so-called list of drugs. It is not a supplement that burdens patients, as it is essentially guaranteed to mean the old way. Secondly, the waiting list says we should go private. Well, that's exactly what this law proposed, and that should happen. That the specialization plan is brought by the minister. That is incorrect, the specialisation plan is brought by every institution, and the minister confirms on the basis of a plan that he has when he sees the list of personnel and whether it fits what the institutions have proposed. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68442	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68443	Thank you very much. Here, my colleagues have already corrected it, but I would still like to point out once again that you are de facto taking some of the articles in this bill and saying that IDS proposes after 30 days if you do not come to review that you are going private... In fact, that's exactly what it says in this bill of law, and it's not the IDS proposal, but it's a proposal for the law of this government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, it is incorrect that this law does not deal with prevention, but, in fact, puts this law as primary health care for the first time and develops and potentiates it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68444	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68445	I have a chance to earn another warning today. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, these laws are definitely not health reform. This could have been said in a folk way one spilling from a hollow to an empty one. No problem of Croatian health care with these laws is solved. The lack of reform also confirms a public statement by the minister saying that the reform should go slowly, that it should not be rushed. And the fact is that human health and health are a very sensitive subject, but it's also true that the problems are getting bigger and the patients are getting more dissatisfied with the state of health. These laws passed the previous debate because this House felt that they were so bad that they could not go to first reading. Now they are again referred to the first reading without any change, which speaks enough about the government's relationship to this House. This is where Mr. Minister talked about how he and the unions, the associations, achieved consensus, was a very good spokesman for both trade unions and associations. I'd like to say that you didn't have to spend that much energy in your opening statement because the unions wrote their comments to us and it's not all so wonderful and wonderful. There are quite a number of objections to all these five laws. And as for what counterparts of Dorotea read here one opinion of the Croatian Medical Chamber, the fact is that this opinion was sent to parliamentary deputies a few days before the previous debate on these laws. And it is also a fact that only a few days should have taken the Croatian medical chamber as a profession to change its opinion to positive and that nothing in these laws has changed, so no single point. So I'm curious, it would be nice to hear what makes the waist so much overnight changes the view of one negative attitude that they're limiting themselves from everything to being absolutely supportive. The fact is that health problems are growing from day to day without doing anything to find a solution, except constantly impose on the sick. A few weeks ago, we had a run-in to hospitals by large-scale drugs due to non-payment of drugs for over 360 days. Then the real truth about indifference in the health system came out in public, because unfortunately in all the materials this House gets it can only read how health care is all in the best order, and the fact is that patients are increasingly paying and getting less and less. The biggest problem is that this government does not offer any solutions to such a situation. The only thing they do for three years is keep calling the former government. In these laws, the only thing that is proposed is the reduction of patients' rights and greater reach in their pockets. It is clear to us that today's progress of medicine requires greater participation of citizens, but we are not for this approach in which this participation is required only of the sick and we cannot support the measures that this government has reached, and where we have lost the necessary solidarity between the patients and the healthy. The administrative fee has been introduced, and here for the second time, the Minister of Health boasts that enough funds have been raised, so additional medicines for the sick, and I tell you once again, Mr. Minister, you should have gone to a healthy population that is twice the population of the sick, and if the goal was to raise funds for additional medicines for the sick, then you could have raised much, much larger funds than those that you have collected to a smaller population of the sick. So if that was logic then we could burden the healthy who are twice the population of the sick. The problem of the unrealized system cannot be solved by new imposes on citizens. It is invested without a plan, and existing health resources are used irrationally. There is no analysis of the return on investments or the effectiveness of health institutions. It's either accidental or deliberate too much in the healthcare system non-transparent. There are no criteria for drawing up a list of medicines to the waiting list and the right reasons why you wait for a search for months. This is why it happens that health care is being more and more isolated and that health care is becoming increasingly more accessible. Thus, in this Law, you take a step further and in Article 66. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act introduces a provision whereby emergency medical care is denied for those who do not pay a contribution to health insurance. Every Mr. Minister must have the right to health care, and it is yours to find mechanisms to collect contributions to health care. If a 82 - year - old woman can end up in prison because she has not paid for electricity, we can certainly find a solution to collect contributions to health care. If you enter and charge an unpaid fee for radio and television, then you can certainly find a mechanism to collect health care contributions and you can’t go to anyone who doesn’t pay the benefit within 30 days, so any medical assistance is cancelled, in this case emergency medical care, because no one can be threatened with the right to live because it’s simply a constitutional category. Article 41 addresses the question of salary compensation during sick leave. The earlier bill guarantees to persons who spent a continuous period of 12 months on sick leave at the end of that period and provided that the person remains incapable of working cash compensation at the level of the last payment fee paid on the burden of the funds of the Institute. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. The bill was provided in the Croatian budget. According to this proposal, insurance companies shall continue to be guaranteed a cash compensation at the end of the 12-month period, but shall no longer be determined in which amount, while at the same time in Article 67, the provision under which the funds necessary to pay and the compensation is provided by the Republic of Croatia in the budget. It doesn't matter who pays this fee and how much it will be because in cases of long-term illness, increased treatment costs are important and current amounts are too small for such treatment costs where people have to buy a lot of things themselves, and certain medicines and all that can help them at these times are really very expensive. That is why we ask that this section be specified until the second reading so that our citizens and at least remain at that level of rights that they have so far. It is a very interesting provision that speaks about the Director of the Office of Obligation, so they wrote that any director who has shown an excess of expenditure on income in the business of the Office during the three-month period will be relieved. It is not realistic to expect the public health system to operate on the principles of the market economy and to generate revenues. Since you have done nothing to reduce the operations of a health care institution without loss, it is possible only if the public is deprived of health care. This system is so set up that I generate losses. There is no director of an office that can function with such a health care system positively. The fact is, we also had another reduction in the rights of our patients in the Health Security Act, i.e. health insurance. So it's about children and one right that this government abolished nine months ago, the right to refund means of transportation treatment when it comes to children. The government was warned of the consequences of the decision before the application itself. On several occasions, we have asked Prime Minister Sanader questions here in the current hour, and we have warned you, too, Mr. Minister and Prime Minister Sanader of the consequences of such a decision and the abolition of that right. We said the last population to be saved is children and sick children. That's when Prime Minister Sanader said he was familiar with the problem and that he would deal with it. It would be good to hear what's changed in the health system in the last nine months because nine months ago it was huge financial spending, and today it's not. As a SDP club, we have submitted a legal proposal that we wanted to motivate you to correct as soon as possible and to return the right to the children to the costs of transport when they go to treatment. In the amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, you added a new provision that obliges units of local self-government to which the founders of health institutions are to cover the losses of health institutions whose founders are. We are witnessing that many counties are in a very difficult financial state, quite in charge and are not able to cover all the costs of their health institutions. In this way we create counties where citizens will have better health care and those where they will be treated worse. Some may be forced to shut down their health institutions because they simply do not have the money to cover such losses that produce a poor and irrational health care system. What's he gonna do, for example? to work in Sibenik-Knin County where only the Sibenik hospital, according to a statement made publicly by its director, spends 90% of its wage limit? Then where's the patient's treatment? If they're going to treat people, they're going to have to make their losses. What's he gonna do, for example? Požeko-Slavon County, which is convulsing in debt and which is currently blocked. The County, which is to this end, is in charge of not spending any of its debts over the next 22 years. The county has no room for additional debt to cover the huge losses of its hospitals in so-called Požeko-Slavon County. Indeed, in this situation, it is a question of how local self-government units will be maintained, without additional rights and without additional downsizing of funding to the level of local self-government, that they will maintain a certain quality of health care to their citizens, and the fact is that in that whole story, which was about half a month or a month ago about debts in hospitals, the fact is that HDZ has also made any statements that they are guilty directors, on the other hand, that they are not directors. The fact is, what my colleague Rados said at the beginning of your term, the directors were replaced by one single excuse, which is that they produced losses. These days the same products of losses are not removed and I think they are not guilty of simply not being able to do otherwise because the system produces losses. This Regulation shall enter The health care law allows you to organize and protect mental health through private practice within the home health care. This is acceptable and necessary because the problem occurred in 96 years when psychologers of schools were mixed and also from the blue book or from the health system, so today we have clinical psychologists in Croatia that we can name them on one hand, we have been trying to hire a number of mental health professionals in schools for several years. Because of all this, we have this kind of violence in the family and in society at all because we have no prevention and care for the mental health of the nation. A very high place to protect and care for mental health has also given the World Health Organization, and it is high time for us to do the same. However, this could remain a dead letter on paper because mental health care is privatized. We think it is necessary for mental health to be part of the regular jobs of the home of health and funding from the state budget. In fact, in the lease so far, psychologists and other mental health experts have become excesses and have been fired as such. It is therefore hard to believe that something is about to change. When it comes to health protection at work, it should be said that this is one of the issues to which special attention should be given because it is of the mutual interest of the employer and the worker. Unfortunately, in our terms, this is not understood because in a dishonest fight for profit and rapid wealth, some employers try to free up the cost of labour protection and health protection at work. It is therefore an obligation for the State to order effective supervision and rigorous penalties. Effective reform is necessary for effective health protection at work. It is important to strengthen preventive health protection activities at work and ensure that existing rules are implemented. System reform can only be carried out if control mechanisms and sanctions mechanisms are established. And in the end, I would like to say that the health system has unfortunately become a place of very great inequality of citizens and the proposed laws will only increase that inequality. We of the SDP cannot accept legal solutions by which the right to health, health care quality and quality of medicines depend solely on the financial power of the individual. Over the past two years, health care availability has deteriorated, waiting lists have been increased, Transparency International has warned of growing corruption in health care, health sector indifference is growing, payment deadlines for suppliers and repayment deadlines for employers are extended. Unlike the previous government, which, in the first two years of its term of office, released the economy by around 2 billion kuna and established the liquidity of the system in three terms of the government's disease tax has been introduced, the payment for medicines is being introduced and healthcare is increasingly due both to the economy and to patients. And you, Mr. Minister, have today confirmed that you have become a good union and association spokesman, but unfortunately you have remained a bad minister and health and welfare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68446	Thank you. It's a subjective assessment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect quote by distinguished representative Lucia Chikesh. Three suddenly were corrected by an incorrect quote. Honorable representative Chikesh, Bucan and Hebrang. I've decided to give the lady a head start.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to quote, "No problem does this law solve.". Oh, my friend, we say, "What's too salty isn't nice to a cat either." This is a little too much. And secondly, what you're saying is that the profession has unfoundedly changed its mind over a short period of time from negative to positively obvious that you haven't read this law closely.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68448	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative, Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68449	Thank you. I quote "this government delivers materials to us as if health care is all right.". That's not true. Look at this page of two Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act where there is talk of an irrational organisation, poor cost control, growth, uncontrolled consumption growth in health care, etc. So the condition is diagnosed after all. And secondly, the Sibenik Hospital. What will a Sibenik hospital do when 90% of the limit is spent on wages? That's not true. It's a little over-inflated by 90%. The over-inflated 90% data, but please apply for example only in one segment of the same and the criteria of the provision on for example the installation of endo prosthetics, such as KBC Zagreb, KB Sisters of Mercy and KB Split, will surely be in a better position. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68450	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68451	Dear colleagues, it's incorrect when you say that nothing in this law has changed since pre-reading. 10 to 15% of the articles have been changed. It's incorrect that this law leads to a new reach in the pocket, you said new commitments, an increase in inequality. This law or group of these laws gives no new imposition, no new financial obligation to any insurance company or patient. In Article 66, you said to ensure that non-payers only contribute emergency medical care, which is incorrect because Article 66 that the person who wrote the speech read to you would have read the following, that he was limited by health care to the procedures necessary to eliminate the immediate danger to life and health. So that's 90% of the practical service. And in the end, you did nothing to stop the losses. When we took over the system this current hospital government had 24% higher income expenditure and today they have 3.5% but also 2% provide more services for such a rational business. I think this report was supposed to be read in the last government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68452	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68453	Well, I'm going to correct my colleague Opačić when she initially said that this law actually imposes itself, so that patients have to pay more and more without reducing their rights. That's incorrect. No right is diminished or imposed. I've already said before the administrative fees that are symbolically an act that cannot be classified in that category that the hack and the impose on the patient I would remind you that back thirty years there has always been a flat-rate payment both during his stay at the hospital. So it's nothing new, nothing new. And what you said in the end is that these laws create an even greater inequality of citizens. That's not true. These laws are also going towards the fact that all citizens in health care are equal and solidarity is basically a postulate that is respected by these laws. And that everything is bad as this power has come is not true. The biggest problems occurred in 2002 when you just introduced the Croatian Institute into the Treasury. When she passed the pay regulations. So much has been done that we now feel as a consequence. Now these laws actually We're trying to get back to normal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68454	In accordance with Article 207, paragraph 2 of this Article, the time has elapsed for the individual hearing for 10 minutes. On behalf of the PGS, SBH and NDS Club, the esteemed representative Nikola Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to say on behalf of the PGS Club of the SBHS NDS I would like to comment on the proposed package of laws, i.e. actually to say our thoughts on the current moment of Croatian health which is now being read and through a parliamentary debate on the 4 proposed laws. First of all, I would like to say that as a state, we cannot be raised by any continuity of health policy and by any continuity of serious organisational and professional management of a system as large and important as the health system. For reasons we cannot boast about the system and find ourselves in the situation it is in, and today we actually have a paradoxical situation. We estimate it as paradoxical. We have a situation in which total, general, public, professional and political change is defined and clearly expressed on the health system as a system that is significant in organisational, professional, material and overall problems. That it's a system that's lost somewhere between 4.6 billion and 5 billion kuna right now. That this is a system that does not function as a well-managed system and at the same time we, as the other day on the Assembly Committee on Health, are actually having one debate in which the backbone of the debate is a proposal 4 of laws that are not reform laws and which are not the result of the announced health reform two years ago. Two years ago, a loudly announced health reform for the reason that the current party in power was on the stand, had estimates that this system was mature for the right to reform. To the side that he reformed from 1995 to 1998, from 1998 to 2000, from 2000 to 2004, and to the side that is conditionally speaking that I'm making a little joke, your strategy Mr. Minister has been adopted the other day and the fourth strategy that we are now very much talking about is the fourth strategy that we bring to this country. The first was called the 1998 Framework Plan, the second 2000. The third is from the Office of Strategics and what was already called, the entire "Health in the 21st Century". Not in four or five years. So when it comes to health care we have discontinuity, we have discontinuity views on how health care should work? What's health care supposed to do? And which way is he supposed to go? And to say right away with an x, with a mass of small, less important solutions in these laws are also personally as a doctor, further as a parliamentary representative or some political employee can agree and support them. But with what a package of health reform laws should have been passed, it was announced that it would be the cause of resolving health problems in Croatia, and this is not what we can agree on and therefore, of course, we will not support these four laws. Because you're not going in. Because what's the problem with Croatian health care? The problem with Croatian health care is that every day, every week, every month, so every year, there is a loss. We have a health system. He's got three great deeds of his own. There is a system of public health that perhaps by looking at these three works can also receive the most transient assessment. We have a primary health care system that is, as it is created, from which it is, from which it is, a system whose creation is responsible for destroying the home of health in Croatia, so now we don't know how but we're talking about returning home to health and nowhere can we see how. Who can't get a passing grade because primary health care usually doesn't do the part of the job that's supposed to be done pretty well in this country. He doesn't do that percentage of services and what he's supposed to do. We have third, hospital protection. Not to share, hospital protection where, I'll say heretic things. We have too many hospitals. We have too many hospitals. That's my opinion. We've got poorly-organized hospitals. Do we have that we don't know who's supposed to do what? And here I have paper where accreditation is practically and categorization by this document the Ministry of Health in which it was already announced for 2001 as what, it's over, there it is. But she's gone. We have hypertrophied Zagreb health care. We have a health care facility in Zagreb that no one can talk about if there are too many hospitals, is there too many beds? Do all planned building of hospital facilities new in healthcare need Croatia? Whether Zagreb Health is treating 3 million Croatian citizens of 4 as many as there are. And all the other 1 million or vice versa that could be determined from these capacities. And it is likely that 3 million Croatian citizens are not being treated. Because I personally know how hard it is sometimes without a fat relationship to get on a differential search in Zagreb. It's very hard to come by. Is it famous Rebro and how impossible it is to get to these all different things without being a patient, that the insurance company of basic health insurance is exposed to what? Lists, waitings and then, of course, black participation. I think the fact that we should talk about it openly is the fact that this year if I'm not wrong at the beginning of the year that the medical papers have brought in one number, a number of medical journals that had a theme came out, the thematically dedicated to the corruption of health care. And here we have what our fellow citizens would say "fiumari" roso and fiori. It's all honey and milk flowing. We're gonna fix the system a little bit. I don't think this way we're gonna fix it. So it seems to me to be scratching on the surface of the health system problem. And the health system has an annual deficit of two billion. How can this deficit be solved so that he does not show himself? It's very simple. That someone gives two billion or that system gives two billion less services. There is no third solution for me. At the same time there is an assessment, to go back a little to that corruption that Croatian citizens... those who try to base statistics on it and I don't know what to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These days, it was possible to read how serious estimates are that Croatian citizens are taking part in black just about 2 billion. Well, what does organisationally do, and I don't know which supervision in the Croatian health care system, because we have, we have everything, we have a fund, we have a ministry. What does he think he's doing? Is there ever gonna be anyone with that that might get in the way? Maybe he will, maybe he won't. With this level and this approach that's through these laws, I personally think it won't. We are therefore a system which, unlike Germany, has 15.5% of health rates. Germany has 13%. But Germany, I don't know, is approaching 25 or 30 thousand euros of gross social product per capita, and we've crossed 5 grand. And now how can we function with these hypothetical 9% of GDPs that healthcare should function in these conditions when Germany in its own, with its GDP stands out 10.2%. And all developed countries ranging from 8% to 10%. I wouldn't compare myself with undeveloped ones, or I don't think it's good to compare with those we've never compared to. Therefore, at the same time loudly announcing reform and entering into an attempt to resolve these issues, we are not dealing with anything. We have a system in which we will continue to accumulate this minus and the problem remains. We don't get in trouble. I've said it several times in Parliament, I'm going to repeat it today, I think that health reform should necessarily be separated from the reform of the health insurance system. I think that health reform was to be led by medics, and that the reform of the health insurance system, with the secondment of the medics, was to be led by the country's economists. And that this should have been addressed by a positive dialogue and by two groups and by a positive conflict and by two groups, not by creating false unity and false optimism in a way that we do not solve essential things. A little while ago, a colleague here mentioned that the economy was disbursed in 2000. And you listed it as plus to the last government. I will base what I just said about the percentage, about the GDP, about this terror of relative numbers, because over Croatian health there is a terror of relative numbers, and absolute numbers are too small. I have exactly the law that my colleague Opacic was talking about here. Yes, in the light of that law, it's exactly everything that's been written, everything that hasn't happened. And it is written that it is necessary to increase the competitiveness of Croatian exports, increase employment and reduce the grey market and reduce the workforce by 2%, and that is how 2 billion are mentioned. But that didn't happen otherwise. The change in rate did not increase the competitiveness of Croatian exports, nor did employment increase. And out of those 2% of them, 0.25% today might be about 600 million, about 600 million. So when we add to this what should be openly told the citizens of Croatia that, for part of the basic health insurance costs other than paying basic health insurance and participating, the system will then protect them from black participation, but that when they are participating and receiving a service then it would be purely clear and fair. And I'm convinced that no problem with that participation should be introduced here at all. Because I don't think Croatian citizens are unreasonable, I don't think they think they live in some hypothetical paradise but live in real Croatia as they do with those problems they have. So finally say if it's 90% that will be covered in primary insurance, is that 85% that will cover in polyclinical and 80% in hospital, as mentioned. So let's say 15% when you get basic insurance, 15% of your health care costs will pay extra. But then you won't wear turkeys, squid, whiskey, or blue envelopes to anyone, because you'll be in a system like that in Germany where no one thinks he's bribing a doctor, a nurse or someone else. I think it is a shame that another social period in which health care is through problems and through its importance came to society's agenda and then to a parliamentary debate which also has its previous debate, so today, too, will have the next one, did not take advantage of the first steps in these essential things to be done in Croatian health, today, tomorrow or the day after. Is this the year before the election the reason it won't happen? So it won't seem in the first year after the election that we don't disappoint those who voted for someone. So we'll always turn around and do what they say on our tails. I think that just a little bit becomes pointless. It seems to me that for many who manage the fate of Croatian healthcare, the most important things have become investments. The most important thing is that the paper is full of inscriptions. How much has it cost Rebro so far? That it still needs 75, which, millions of euros in credit to complete Rebro, to be discussed in the Zagreb media who is guilty of not finishing Blato Hospital. Well, I don't know who's going to be treated in all those powerful hospitals with all that capacity if we're not going to close any more old ones. Investments aren't health care. Investments are patients. I'm sorry. Health care is a patient. Health care is care for the health of patients and care for the health of the people. This can only be a good and quality organised system. And I think it's definitely time to mix up what this society is up for at the same time HZZ and at the same time the Ministry of Health, because sometimes you don't know who is who. Where it is sometimes not known whether the director of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance behaves more like a minister or whether he acts as the director of the insurance house in what he explains to the public. Well, they're not one. They can't be hand in hand, regardless of what systems we've come from, classical, national... But after 15 years we must have definitely separated functions and must know who on behalf of whom orders services, who provides services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That the service provider must have its own prices and that society must provide for as much money as it has for its citizens, for its insurance companies, for its people to buy services. Health based on all that is being dealt with is not in a good position in Croatian society. I don't think it's for the simple reason, because since a few governments haven't dealt with the fact that they're actually getting into solving the causes of the health crisis, that means they don't actually keep it as important as we might think. If it were different then probably some relations would be in which sectors the money spends budgetally differently. With all due respect, education goes in this society I don't know nine billion. And in how many parts of this country's citizens are concerned by the education system in all its elements? What, in 25, 30%, I guess, no more. Health care takes care of all 100% of the citizens, and there are 15 and a half, 16 billion. Are those normal relationships? Well, they're not. These aren't normal relationships. That's why I think and stand up for the next one. We need to redefine the sources of health funding. Rate, other revenues, how do you get them? Which means, what are more reserves and what percentage can be an adequate organisation in the system and sit and get, but we need to secure funds unless we want to lower our level of health care, and it will be reduced for the reason I said. If you don't put 2 billion dollars on the health care table, then it can only provide less services for so much money to be zero. For this reason I think that in the total public consumption of Croatia there is room to be openly asked and of all those who are outside of health care to... in this balance sheeting whether these relations in the total public consumption in Croatia are appropriate, whether they are what we need, whether health care should be reduced or there is room for redistribution within the total public consumption to make health care stand on its feet and not generate every day and every year of loss. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to make that clear. I don't think we need anyone outside this country to determine at any cost how much we will and why we spend our money on some of our activities. I mean this story, not the story, but the World Bank's views on what needs to be done in health reform in Croatia. The World Bank has made that clear, it is no secret, and that is that there must be a general reduction of expenditure on medicines, a reduction of hospital deficits and a change of the basic health insurance package, and they are asking us to single out neither 500 euros per capita per year for health care, and at the same time, from neighbouring Slovenia, the next country of the European Union separates from a thousand euros per capita and then some a thousand, two and a half, two and a half, etc. Therefore, I think we can talk about public spending as a total balance and have certain obligations towards global financial institutions, but within that we must be able to say how much we will give for education, but we will also say how much we will give for health care. Our 500 euros for healthcare is not enough and we will be constantly persecuted as a society, like those who in a certain way lead this country from people, from citizens, from insurance companies that we have not offered models to have adequate health care. It will be difficult for our people to return to a lower level of health care. I think, I say that we have to keep this level and we have to improve it, and that is why we need to isolate it more, and in what way the total public spending will be balanced, that is the issue of the government's strategy, that is, the issue of relations that are being negotiated in a cross-resor way, but I don't think that health can be what it is sometimes for post-op. I see my light's on. As a confirmation of this last thing I said we have and now a situation that confirms our relationship to health, unemployed social cases, children until I don't know which, pensioners, farmers over 65 years old. For them, the basics of health insurance are paid by the state, paid by the budget, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, so let the minister tell us how much the foundation of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Government is in debt to health. Close to 2 billion. That's the information that's safe, whether it's now a billion or 900 or two and a hundred. So the state doesn't pay what it has to pay, and she said that for unemployed social cases, those who can't care for themselves and put farmers of 65 years of age to pay for insurance, basic health insurance. Therefore, it is a system that everyone can cut about how he likes it and I personally think that it is not good and I think that healthcare must have a place in those inter-resor relationships as it is and that it must have the dignity of that total group and relation to education and relation to science and relationships I do not know which. Possible savings in the system of local, regional, state administrations better not speak. Every funny official from municipality to state today has a car in this country for 24 hours, most of them have INA cards and they drive for 24 hours and then we talk, I think we have to save on the sick and there's no room for savings. There is room for savings, it must be entered into the balance sheeting within public consumption and in this case in favour of health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68456	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68457	Thank you very much. By agreeing with most of the exposure of fellow Ivanis, I still think it is necessary to correct a few incorrect allegations. He may have said by mistake that the citizens are giving a black 2 billion kuna a year. No, I don't. This gives 2 billion kuna on the private market in private offices, private polyclinics with prices determined by the chamber and, of course, by the financial system of control. So it's an out-of-state budget, an out-of-state expense, not black. That centralisation in Zagreb is not true. Zagreb also has 5 acute beds on the population as well as Split, Rijeka, Osijek and also only 0.2 beds per thousand residents for the most sophisticated medicine. We didn't go to centralization like Slovenia, which was all in one clinical center. Finally, you can't say that the state doesn't pay its obligations. The state pays 9% of gross national income for health care and we are the first not in Europe but in the world, Slovenia is 8% behind us and then the European Union is 6.6% to 7%. So the state pays the most for health care because other sources except the state are gone and there's a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68458	Second, honourable representative of Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68459	... a sentence at the beginning that there are too many hospitals in Croatia, too many beds, and there must be too many hospitals and beds in Zagreb. [[Specially enabled.]] My colleague Hebrang has already said that in part, I'll just repeat it. There are not too many beds in Croatia, there are not too many hospitals either. In Croatia, 15 thousand acute beds between 650 and 700 thousand patients per year are treated in Croatian hospitals. Of these, 50% of these are treated in clinical hospitals, so around 340, and in Zagreb the highest number of clinical hospitals is 10, 180 to 200 thousand. Therefore, the number shows that it is only adequate and capacity. The second thing you said was it's not good that we don't know who the Minister of Health is, who's the director of the Croatian Institute. In our terms in small means like this, this cooperation must be very, very intense and I would say without it there is no success. Evidence that this is a good model is a model there if you remember '94, '95. When the Minister of Health was present here, Professor Hebrang and Director of the Croatian Institute of Turks in 94th year, the Croatian Institute of Debts of $150 million was resolved by suppliers from my own resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68460	Okay. Thank you very much. And respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68461	Dear Mr. President, Reverend Ivanis said when he compared the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, saying he cared for 30% first and health care for 100%. I'd fix it, but you know why? Health care takes care of 130%, both unborn and even the deceased, so I would ask you to remember this and all of us together, so that when the funds are determined for the Ministry of Health to support the minister and all others, perhaps some topics with respect to all this potency and economic status of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68462	Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68463	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, here's a briefer review of what's been said. I think we absolutely need to bring some things to a place where they usually belong. It states here that in 2003 the former Government adopted a development project of clinical and general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. Yes, she did, she did. And we're just like this, and my principals like to say it's a picture book. Why the picture book? So here you see, so there's a picture of the "Wolf Vrhovac" clinic, so it says the age of the hospital, the bed capacity, the necessary investment, the price and then a couple of pretty figures. Then there goes the next hospital again, and then there's another icon. So, it's absolutely not a serious document, but let's say it's one of these children's readings that looks good-looking. So, the real master plan is gone, we're in the process of making this one master plan. I'm also announcing that we're going to get him through a parliamentary procedure, so it's not just a government act, it's going to be a parliamentary procedure. Why? To actually verify it and to make it practical to become what will be guaranteed by those who are coming. It was about prevention. I would pray when we talk about prevention we must be serious about our citizens. We have three forms of prevention, a little education. Primary, so secondary and tertiary. Primary prevention aims to prevent disease, secondary early detection of disease and tertiary naturally recognise or address complications. The primary surely agree is something that we must act within the framework of our community, meaning within each individual by promotional actions, of course from early childhood. But what is our great task, of course, is to promote this primary prevention but to work in areas especially secondary prevention. And I'm glad it's here and it's recognised because here tomorrow at the government is a presentation of the national programme for early breast cancer detection, so secondary prevention of one of the diseases, one of the monsters actually among women in Croatia, and I think it's actually going to be one big step that we've predicted for this year alone somewhere around 35 million kuna without therefore additional investment that is related to notice. It says here that the laws were written by economists. I have to admit that I'm going to take this as one big compliment because otherwise everyone's actually percepting me as somehow too healthy and under-economically-oriented minister, so here I think it actually came to me as a kind of compliment. There was talk of the introduction and the need to introduce so-called ... We translated him DTS model into paying hospitals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And exactly, that's what the former government indicated in its principles of health development back in 2000, they haven't done and we haven't written much, but here we are. Therefore, the second month of the project is already under way in four hospitals, one clinical hospital of a larger rank, so KBC, KBC of Rijeka, at a Dubrava Clinical Hospital, in one of the General Hospitals of a larger rank in Zadar and one of the General Hospitals of a slightly lower rank in Pakrac. Here I'm saying, the second month is up, the results are already some preliminary ones we've got, so maybe if someone's interested we can present some very convenient results. We expect that practically very quickly and this model of course will be brought to life, and that is part of the National Health Development Strategy. Well, somehow, I don't understand why the National Strategy didn't support itself if this stands out as one of the things. In fact, there was a need for systematic change. And exactly, this government absolutely supports it, that systematic change. But unlike the former government who wanted to jump right up to the first floor and then we fell down the stairs and take the stairs down the stairs, sometimes two, sometimes one, but we climb safely. And this is one of our steps of these few laws, and I think we're going to get very nice and easy actually up where we wanted to go, and that means that ultimate goal has an even better, even more quality health system, which, of course, is fiscally sustainable. A few words about specializations. Otherwise, we have the custom of all the specializations that we give to certain institutions to put on the website www.mzss.hr and it is ticking and our first page appears and there are specializations there, it is clicked and the specialization is opened and there is everything. We only gave more than two hundred specials in 2005. The plan of specialization is not brought by the minister, the ministry, brought by the institutions and therefore we fully respect them if, of course, they are not specializations that are a little strange. So let's say that one hospital, a lower-level general hospital, asks for a subspecialization of neurosurgery, and let's say it doesn't have neurosurgery or some kind of strange thing, of course we won't approve it, but the plan actually specializes in principle, so we always support and approve. Otherwise, only when we talk about specializations is just one sentence, that exactly the coordination of medical schools and it is based on the incentive of this government along with chambers and professional societies to develop a new plan and program of specialist training according to the European Charter of Professional Training. There was talk here about the opinion of the chamber. I have to admit I'm a practical man, I don't like this much theoreticalism. So this is a memo, here it is, so the chamber where we actually thank, etc., we express our satisfaction that in the draft legal acts, appropriate changes have been made in accordance with our remarks, mainly in the section that directly refers to our members, doctors and the system of treatment, etc. Based on our current good cooperation, we expect that further comments will be considered, adopted and that we will actually see that the national strategy is fully in place and so on and so on. So I don't really know where this data came from, and where did that memo come from in the first place? Secondly, I'd like to actually read you a provision of a valid law. The provision of the applicable law, which the former Government has passed, thus saying: "The insurance and insured persons referred to in Article 11 of this Act, who, under the special law, are bonds of accounting and payment of contributions and who have not paid a contribution for basic health insurance for at least three calendar months, are limited to the use of basic health insurance rights to emergency medical care. So it's a provision that's practically already in the law. So it's not a provision of a new law, it's a provision of an old law, and it's clearly to be said, not to accuse another for its sins. My concern is to move on to another, it's an old time. There was actually talk about the problems of Sibenik-Knin County. We've got a big problem right there. We're opening a new neurology right now, seventh, and here's who we're going to do, how we're going to organize it because the mayor's got a Mediterranean rally. I have something in Motovun so we can't agree and of course we'd start building pediatrics and you all remember those ugly pictures of pediatrics in Sibenik. One object that absolutely requires immediate intervention, we will now begin with its construction. There were also talks about the problems of Požega-Slavon County. I remember some pre-election message from Mayor Ronk was. He says, "Your solution to all problems, Ronko." Well, here he is, I hope he's actually going to solve all these problems, isn't he? And just a little mental health review. It is precisely this government that first launched the Croatian Institute of Mental Health. He now operates in his space, with his principal, with his employees. We first launched the Center for Mental Health here in Zagreb, exactly as the first. Why? Because Zagreb actually went out to meet us, gave us space. Next up, Osijek. Here we are just working on a space building of old customs where actually that space would a little adapt, partially move some more contents inside and, of course, make it work and center. And in the end it says the administrative fee has put the sick at risk of actually burdening the healthy more, but here I'm just going to point out again that the former government has reduced the releases precisely from all those healthy ones, so how much has it endangered the sick? But they're political flossules. I think it's actually time for a different action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68464	Thank you. For the HSS Club, a respected representative of Miroslav Cacci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68465	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. After a long debate in the previous debate and many good proposals, unfortunately, we can today conclude that only some of these good proposals have been incorporated into the proposed laws but, in general, argue that there are still cosmetic changes that are not in the interest of the citizens of the insurance companies, their material opportunities or needs. All this, however, is that the burden of consumption is transferred from public to private, to insurance and local self-government. That this is how it comes from a series of official data that are available to us, and I will repeat only what we said in the previous debate when we commented on what happened in 2004 with regard to the socially gross, gross social product that was at the time 207,082 billion kuna. Public consumption of 15,945 billion kuna and 17.7%, respectively, and private consumption of 4.142 billion kuna and 2%, which means that in that year total consumption amounted to health expenditure of 20 billion 087 kuna, with the share of private consumption in total health consumption being 20.62% and the share of public consumption 79.38%. And now on the basis of these indicators that were nothing different than in 2005 we thought that even after they said long-term debates and good proposals, there would still be a lot to be incorporated into these amendments and additions to the laws that are before us today. Unfortunately, I repeat a lot of things have not been done, but the rest is almost the same. And the truth time flies, the month and a half is behind us, and the health situation is no better than it was back then. But I will not be attached to any party's views but exclusively to what I have ahead of me, and these are proposals to amend and supplement the Health Protection, Health Insurance, Voluntary Health Insurance, or Insurance at Work. So I'm going to do that, and I'm going to make our remarks on behalf of the House of Representatives Club. First, the proposal to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act. The important observation remains with us regarding holders of ownership of health institutions. Because it still remains as planned and that proposal that was before us. It remains a provision whereby companies can also deal with health activities. In practice, this proved to be a bad solution, so I repeat again that case of the Holy Spirit 2 polyclinic which, unfortunately, was as it is and has left a mark on everything that is happening today and on us who see that in some way should act differently in the regulation of ownership relations in this bill. It is, however, two of the opposite provisions because, normally, healthcare works on a non-profit basis and companies do work to make as much profit as possible. It remains that remark related to the owner and his founding rights, as the owner must continue to cover the losses of his health institutions under this proposal. Today, the losses of health institutions in particular general hospitals are huge, and they repeatedly exceed the budgets of their owners who, due to an invisible economic situation, are already at the edge of survival. Countys and cities do not have the means to cover the loss of their health institutions. So the legal provision is totally unacceptable to us. It can have a significant impact on the health care of the county population, putting them in an unequal position in relation to the population of more economically advanced counties or cities or those health institutions owned by the state. Here he would also mention what is said today, and it is related to the possible resolution of losses through the use of decentralised funds. I must say that thank God that these decentralised resources could have been used precisely for the purposes for which they were intended. It's about investment maintenance, investment, equipment. And also with the acquisition of computerization, i.e. for the acquisition of these equipment. And now to turn them into regular consumption I think they would have stopped the quality of the possible provision of health services because they would have brought the equipment back into a state that was a few years ago, which I don't think we should do in any way. That they were, that depreciation was in the price of health care then yes, but unfortunately she wasn't. Well, he also told today that hebrang, a respected colleague, that what the price of the service is for us, health care. Something short on the status of a home of health. We believe that this number of health homes is important to determine from the total number of county residents. Because only optimal coverage of health homes can in some situations be a quality substitute for insufficient availability of other health facilities. Services should be able to be provided in the nearest home of health, not according to the determined division. We also believe that health care can be a pharmaceutical activity in homes of health. Because in many areas the same is not or is limited to working hours. Therefore, different ownership or co-ownership solutions could also have a better impact on the quality of health services. Because today there are vital interests at all levels of local administration and self-government for the better functioning of the health system, especially primary health care. The continuation of privatisation, however, raises some other issues. And one of them is the question of the role of the director of health homes and its influence on private tenants. So the question arises whether there can be places in the almost fully privatised system to achieve better healthcare and whether primary health care can be the main cornerstone of the health system, which is also defined by the strategy. Proposal for a Health Insurance Act. Although some objections to the previous text of the proposed law have been accepted, it remains significantly unchanged. And it refers first to what we're constantly talking about, to two drug lists. Because it does not specify the criteria by which it will be included, so it creates a concern for the insurance company because it does not matter which of the generic and original drugs will be listed, the one tested better or worse for one disease. The promoter states that medicines for the treatment of all diseases will be included on the baseline list. And we know that all electoral drugs don't have a replacement in generics. Furthermore, what about patients who are currently using the original drug that could be found in the supplemental by creating two lists. Will he have to stop therapy or switch to generic medicine? So our position is two lists yes, but not with the aim of transferring the price difference to the insurance company, which would mean almost 30% of private consumption. Because it would be a major social blow to the middle and poorer part of the citizens. We therefore propose that all medicines be included on the baseline list as previously. Because we need the same thing, with basic insurance only paying the lowest price of generic, or clinical parallels. The additional list of medicines should consist of all medicines on the unique list of medicines. And the price difference between the price of the same product for the basic and supplementary lists would be paid by any insurance or insurance provider, state or private supplementary insurance. The introduction of a supplemental list of medicines and the payment of an administrative fee on recipes is unacceptable. Because it's a double system of restrictions on the use of medicines that will have far-reaching negative consequences on public health. It will not only result in a reduction in unnecessary consumption but also unnecessary drug consumption. Furthermore, payment of the administrative fee. It's unacceptable for us to examine primary health care. Because primary health care is the first contact with a sick insurance company and there must be no restriction on its availability. It must therefore be free of charge and allow for unlimited availability of primary health care, and any costs of treatment in the PZ must be borne by compulsory health insurance. The administrative fee has the basis only in specialist-consular health care and only in the form and extent to reduce and limit unnecessary diagnostics. Furthermore, we do not understand the issue of salary compensation for the time of sick leave. Because according to a new proposal, after the expiry of the 12-month uninterrupted sick leave, cash compensation is still guaranteed, but is not said in what amount. The question also arises whether it is moral to deny the right to emergency medical assistance in the event of non-payment of contributions. Is it not that life and health are above all things, and cannot be conditioned by any service? Where's our effective billing control? The financial management of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance in Articles 69 and 70 shall introduce a provision on the allocation of any remainder of revenue over expenditure. That's what we stressed last time. 50% is allocated in reserve, and the rest can be borrowed. We're really asking why and who needs it? And the proposal to cut down on the rate of contribution, discharging the economy, and we haven't thought about it. In our opinion, a possible surplus can only be used to reduce payment deadlines, improve preventive healthcare, and in repeated cases reduce the contribution rate. There's no mixing and loaning strictly to the insurance company's means. The establishment of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance as a newspaper introduces the Assembly, Article 89, as the former de facto RSSIS from 43 to 45 members to 100 thousand insurance companies. Which will cost us too much, given our intended assignments and powers. And they'll be able to make decisions and I said it here last time already with a half-dozen 50%, 25 plus 1. The Executive Body of the Administrative Council is provided for whose representatives should be selected Article 23, but not who proposes them. I guess those who should be represented even though the question is raised why there are no health representatives, and a representative of the office is envisaged. Who, are you from the management circle? The parts of Article 29 are almost ridiculous. The assembly says it must resolve the directors, the deputy director, if the excess expenditure is shown after the three-month business period in relation to the revenues. What if the reasons for the losses incurred are objective and justifiable circumstances of Article 108 when the recovery is scheduled to be carried out at the expense of the state budget? The result of such a provision can be a change of management, de facto every 3 to 6 months which certainly does not lead to business progress and will cause negative staff selection syndrome, which is not specific in this activity, because there are no specifically trained personnel, and it can indeed be fatal. In the case of supervision of the legality of work, Article 106 does not mention a state audit but only the Ministry of Health. Of course we're asking again why? The section governing the relations of institutions and health institutions proposes to negotiate the implementation of healthcare every 3 years. And what about filling up a network of health care activities where it's almost constantly unfulfilled... The frames? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question arises, isn't it the indirect introduction of some forms, some kind of surrogate concession? If we want a concession then after reaching consensus it is and legal in its real form as it is everywhere in the world, and not again inventing some kind of wetlands of our own that we don't know how it's going to end. We therefore propose to negotiate primary health care as before every year, and the SKZZ and hospital health care every 3 to 5 years, but only after we carry out categorisation and accreditation of polyclinic and hospital health institutions. Article 76 provides for a re-arbitration of arbitration if no contract is concluded in accordance with the decision of the previous arbitration within the time limit set. The composition of arbitration and members is unacceptable and I spoke about it last time because no matter what arbitration you get, you get an x-way and an understanding and justification of everything you went to arbitration for, it's simply impossible to achieve some positive result, and the nice words don't live. Article 79(3) introduces a novelty limiting consumption in the UNSC, but now the number of instructions under the contracted insurance undertaking rather than the total amount agreed for the insurance of one team. That means the restrictions on administrative fees by the number of instructions, and now the money, and I'm asking the same question why? Is there no better solution? In the event of an overrun, an agreement on the conduct of health care shall be terminated without discussion of justification, arbitration or the like. As regards the draft, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, we believe that additional health insurance should be allocated from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to a private institution in the majority state ownership. As so far, there should be insurance policies covering up to full price, participation, but also a policy to cover the extra charge between the price of the medicinal product on the basic and supplemental list of medicinal products, and not only to leave it to private insurance companies. Policy prices should cover the price of risk and the cost of operating without the accumulated profit as private insurance just for the sake of the social protection of chronic patients, from the poor parts of the population for which this part of the necessary cost will be too much of the cost of living. Such an organised supplementary state-owned insurance would serve as a social correction in the protection of public health. At the time when it is estimated that such a correction, given the growth of standards, is not necessary for the state to sell insurance, small shareholders or other interested majority package, and to keep only the stock control package. Otherwise, in the history of healthcare other than health insurance in these areas, stockholders' insurance companies are known, and that is precisely in the majority ownership of small stockholders' insurance companies. As far as the proposal for a law on accidental labour injuries is concerned, the law is largely well-conceived, however, something that may have to be said here, it should, this insurance should be left as a separate fund within basic insurance with the conduct of a separate transparent business. Therefore, as part of the HZZO, there is indications that this is somehow not predicted for some other reason that private insurance companies would still be able to achieve some of their interests for some time. All that I have said, these remarks and proposals for better solutions of these legal proposals are because we continue to think that the proposed amendments and additions are only unfortunately insufficient, cosmetic and far away... The effects on the social status of patients, citizens' insurance, and ultimately have a significant impact on the quality of public health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Participation of costs yes, but... with the social status of the insurance company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Making profits is not on citizens' health, not on their illness, because the state is becoming less and less social. These amendments to the addition of the law should not be passed by ordinary majority I said and last time already one... Consensus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All members of the European Union protect the interests of their citizens, each, however, in their specificities, which we should do through a far higher degree of solidarity not by abandoning collective insurance and not by subjugating it to some interests. We consider these laws to be better complemented by proposals and remarks that will still be made these days and referred to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68466	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68467	I quote the incorrect quote: "This package of laws represents cosmetic changes that are not in the interest of the insurance company." It's not true because of a few things, and it's also the establishment of health homes on islands and... and shifts in the creation of new specialists and redistribution of decentralised funds and strengthening the role of primary health care with information and what the law provides in connection with continuous quality control of work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if the quote wasn't correct and you said it yourself in the end because you finally claimed that the labour protection law was well-conceived and at first you say yourself that this package of laws represents cosmetic changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68468	The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68469	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! We've heard a lot of different assessments here today about the health care system. I will try instead of a political dictionary this time speaking in dictionaries of numbers. Health care can be assessed subjectively and objectively. There are 60 million services in Croatian health care annually. If only 5% of the treatment is wrong, the nurses are a huge number of dissatisfactions and the impression of a bad system is obtained. That's 3 million dissatisfied in the service. The law of large numbers. The objective evaluations are obtained by surveys of international institutions or domestic institutions. I like to quote the chro barometer of this year's latest poll on a thousand 800 respondents. The question is, what's the biggest problem in the country? Health is only in the ninth place, thank God. In the first place, the unemployment rate is 78% of respondents, bribes and corruption in the second place is 22%, pensioner status 17%, health is in the ninth place with 9.7% and that is about the average and other much more developed countries. So, is the system good or bad? I will try to convince you that it is not so bad and that you do not have to be afraid that you will die before our friends in any average European country, not the country of the European Union, European country, because we will wait a little with the standard for the European Union. So the World Health Organization placed us in 30th place by state of human health of 191 countries. What other activities are we in besides health care and football among the world's top 30? Not in any of them. We're weaker in handball, but we used to be. We're on football 24th in the world this time. The general effectiveness of the health system is defined, general efficiency. Here we heard it was an inefficient system, etc. 40th place from 192 countries. Which is where we're still effective in the 40th place. So, in front of us are Sweden, Switzerland, etc. As far as health indicators are concerned, health indicators are indeed at the discretion and honor of healthcare professionals and all who participate in health care and the execution of our services. We must say that newborn mortality in Europe is 7.4%, in Croatia below 6%. We have to say that perital mortality was reduced from over 10% in the 1990s to 5% to 6% last year. It should be said that the mortality of circulating systems has been reduced from 111 to 100,000 inhabitants, to 87 in the last ten years. It should be said that cerebrovascular mortality is down from 34 to 22 to 100,000, etc. Anyone who wants to take the Yearbook of the Croatian Institute of Public Health who manages these indicators under the control of World Health. Mr. Minister introduced after long preparations, he introduced acute heart ischemia therapy. Thanks to that, heart ischemic death is 11% less this year than it was last year. In what other profession do we follow world events and the most modern trends? The life expectancy that we were talking about but for the organisation of health care needs to be studied and it is a large subject that has been taught for years and the booklets are heavy by dozens of pounds. Unfortunately, only 10% of health care is involved for the expected duration of life because if we participated more, we would have an even longer life expectancy. This way and with those 10% we are proud because the life expectancy in Croatia is expected a year longer than in Europe. We have 75 in Europe, 74. In the European Union, 77 is irregular. It's 80 in Japan, but they eat sushi. Life expectancy was expected. Sushi, they eat fish, they eat healthy food. The expected life expectancy was with us, in the 1990s it was the same as in Europe, the 90th. Then in 91st, 92st because of Serbian aggression and the murder of 20,000 people and everything they've done to refugees and exiles, the estimated life expectancy is falling tremendously in three years. That's a hell of a lot. Because it takes years and years to repair it as well as gross national income. And in 1991 we're three percentage points below Europe. Today we've been better than Europe for a year 75 to 74 years. This isn't politics, these are numbers. I don't want to go any further on health indicators because we could talk by tomorrow. Let's go to that difficult problem and that's funding. We say that the system is ineffective, that the system is not well-managed. Who knows health management knows that the overall costs of health care management and organisation are only 10% to 12%. 60% is the opening of new capacities and we've only opened new capacities in the last three, four years. Remember the rib, remember Zabok, remember the new operating halls, remember the new equipment we buy day and night. So we're opening up expenditures right on that item that's widest and we're out of control here. And if that's where we go in control, then it's said we're bad. In this funding, it should be said that without major changes and said so, and the minister will not be able to resuscitate the system in the longer term, but it is not the government's fault that does not bring them. Major changes require a consensus of all parliamentary parties. This is a more important consensus than the one that we have achieved for the European Union, and I hope that we will achieve it soon, that we will be so politically mature, no matter who is ruling or who is the opposition coalition. So, as it stands with these finances, we don't only complicate three data. We inherited a terrible debt, I can say a terrible one, but we have a terrible one, and we're not much better. We're something better, but you'll see how much. We inherited a long hospital over 90 days in 2003, 876 million. Then we pump into the system 3 billion from the budget, not from the health care, but from the others. Today, our long hospital is almost the same. It's smaller by 20% but it's on the rise and it's gonna be like that again. And no matter how much you pour into that money system, it's going to leak so much more because there are parasites in the system. Parasites are the pharmaceutical industry, 40% of prescribed drugs don't end up in the body of a patient by world health care. That's a billion and 200, a billion and 300 million kuna a year, ending up in a sewer. It's your equipment. Now you have a lot of pressure from big equipment suppliers that every hospital has to have a multi-layer CT. In Hungary, which has twice as many inhabitants, there are only 4 multi-layer CTs. Now we hear Zabok has to have it. It will be the 22nd multilayer CT in Croatia. Of course he doesn't need it. Of course Sisko doesn't have to keep counting. Because you know where the multilayer CT is going? He's going to a state-of-the-art facility dealing with vascular diagnostics. Point, over. Everything else is a waste of money. And with us, we're talking about whether a multi-layer CT needs to be discussed in the constituency benches. It's not the politics of ladies and gentlemen, it's the profession. And when we figure it out and put it into the laws, be assured the biggest hole will close. So much is now the swing of suppliers of expensive equipment to invent affairs. The Schimatsu affair is nothing more than an affair invented to raise prices, and as we've had it, we've completed this contest instead of the estimated 17 million kunas with 11 and a half million kuna for the same package of equipment because it was a competitive company. If "Shimatsu" had not submitted his offer only Siemens would have been the only bidder. So they claimed that the contest was staged for Shimatsa and all the tenders were received by Siemens. And meet all the conditions. Why? Because if we pulled out the only competition, they'd go to heaven. We must overcome this with our laws and our political thinking. What more about finances should be said is the only recipe in this book called "Map in Health Care in Central Europe" and published by the institution "European Healths Academy". This is a booklet that says how many people stand out for health care from which source? Well, that book says well under Croatia from public sources 100%. And from all the other data, we see how other countries do it. So I'll just give you a brief list, we're talking about Central European countries. From public sources, therefore, from their budgets of state or local as who has to give the Czech Republic 72%, Estonia 75%, Hungary 70.2%. I quote this book, we can copy it later. Latvia 52.5%. Lithuania 69% from public sources. The rest is paid by a patient in his pocket because there's no third source of health care. Romania 76%. Slovakia and Slovenia are closest to us with 85%, with the patient paying 15% and Croatia 100%. The only one of these 15 Central European countries and the only one of all European Union countries in the future. So the recipe was invented by another one, and the recipe is called the inflow into the money system by whoever's spending it, which is the fuse. There is no political consensus in this package of laws, and therefore, the Ministry has drawn up a minimum of legislation to ensure that the system survives to such a political consensus that will follow inevitably in a few years, because this unfortunately imposes on us daily practice, which is good in this package of laws. It is good that it distances the system from politics because HZO is in the hands of its insurance companies and not more in the hands of the government. The second is good and I think it's the best that determines financial responsibility. So far, we have not had legal financial responsibilities. When we took over the system in 1993, the Minister of Health said that he was not responsible for the operations of hospitals but HZZO. HZZO Director said it wasn't her, it was the health minister. The largest system in the country in the budget did not have any responsible financial persons. We've introduced responsibility but without the basis of the law, and now it's within the law. Three categories of responsibility are introduced: the first is already at the level of the Assembly to appoint a board of directors and actually manage HZZO. The congregation itself, according to Article 89, adopts measures to align expenditure with revenue. Not the government, the assembly, the insurance companies themselves. As in Slovenia, as in Germany, as in Sweden, as in Hungary. It's like other countries. If the insurance companies don't bring them themselves, no one will bring them. And it is good that they bring them themselves, and only in Croatia do they not bring them themselves. The head of HZZO himself today may create a deficit of 5 billion kuna in a year, nothing to anyone. In accordance with Article 97, the Director will be responsible for the balance of expenditure with income and may be resolved by the Assembly in accordance with Article 97 if there are higher income expenditures in the quarterly account. Why? Because it put the patient's health at risk. Because he won't be able to pay for the drugs, there'll be a hospital blockade and a system failure. The third level is contract institutions. Contracting institutions have so far been responding to whom? No one. By law, not even the Minister for Financial Expension. The Director of the Contracting Institution will now be very responsible. So far, he's had no financial supervision. We spent it but without a legal basis. That's why we brought the system as much in order. They will now have because for the first time HZZO controls contractual obligations, financial contractual obligations of contract institutions. No one's ever controlled that before. Hospitals will have to do what they're doing now because we've forced them to do it in some way, now they're going to have to pass on the incomes and expenses for the past month by law every tenth of the month. If it is seen that someone like a pule or not gave the God of Sibenik has unwarranted expenses, they have no connection now, of course, to the number of treated patients or quality but completely outside of the medical system, the money will leak, then it will be seen in time and not when the debt grows as in Pula to more than tens of millions of kuna. What is new in Article 80 of the hospital introduces the financial responsibility of the head of the department. This is what all the countries of Europe have. So far, the head of the department hasn't answered financially. He milked money and he doesn't care as much as he does. Now he'll be in charge of carrying out all health services with the limit he's assigned. How? That's what he needs to know. Otherwise she won't be head of the department. That's the way it is all over the world. I think these are the most important parts that will lead to financial discipline in primary health, too, because it is negotiated according to article 79 and the price of the manual and the price of the prescription by the insurance and preventive checks and everything is quantified and when the Ministry completes the project of computing will be more and more simple than today. The next thing we said in the law several times in the debate, Mr. Minister pointed out it was prevention. For the first time, you have secondary prevention as a legal obligation. For the first time, you have preventive checks in primary as a legal obligation. And it's certainly something that will save many lives. On the pilot project we had in primary, so we made a decision to pay my thoughts 30, 40 kuna per review of the primary physician, but he has to call every insurance officer over 40 years old and he hasn't heard from him in 3 years. And you know how many of them were sick? 40%. From diabetes to high pressure. ... They're calling older than 40, you're still too young. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Waiting lists, this is the only recipe in Europe in which you can if you haven't known in 90 or how many days on some shooting, of course except in emergency cases when you are going immediately where you will be given the opportunity to go outside the state system so the privateer will pay HZZO. Such a gift has really not been given to the insurance companies for this amount of separation anywhere yet. Lists A and B. List A is equally valuable in the therapeutic effect of List B. But it is the cheapest clinical parallel and everyone will have free of charge. And by that we will be unique in the world, because there is absolutely no free list of A. Everywhere you have to pay for it. We will have list A without, but of course list B of an equal but expensive drug with participation. I think it's a good thing the law keeps all social benefits. Here we heard you take the patient out of your pocket, take it sick instead of healthy. This law doesn't take anyone out of their pockets any more than ever. This means that administrative fees remain in a slightly milder form and the contributions paid by the employer and the employee remain. So it's untrue that this law takes anything out of anyone's pocket. Such a law for taking out of the pocket requires political concentration and social compensation. You can't take an unemployed person or a pensioner who lives on 1,000 kunas. So it's a package that's being prepared and that's going to have to come for this pay phone someday. The next thing I would point out as a quality is that this law retains all the good qualities of previous laws and corrects what the practice has shown to be bad. And that's why it doesn't seem to be some big revolution. There will be a great revolution once the political conditions have matured. In the end, I would say this, because it's time that there's really not much to say that there are a few things in this law that I would suggest that they still think about. First of all, I think we should install an article that would immediately enable equipment to be categorized. The categorization of hospitals will take a long time. We've had equipment categorized in our former laws, and now we haven't had the last four years. It should be categorized very quickly by the profession not to be discussed in the assembly benches who needs an endoscopy or a CT. Second of all, I think the director should have the experience of 5 years, not 10 years, because otherwise, from now on, they would be the director of HZZ, maybe 5 years of leadership training is enough. And that, and maybe in Article 16(4)... It may be a mistake, Article 16(4) states that the B-list will be determined according to the reference list laid down by the law, by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's probably special regulation, not by, according to a special law. It's a press mistake to make, and it says by special law. And here, in conclusion, I would say, this law should be supported. It will correct a whole series of negative things and phenomena that have come to light. And you be assured, after this law you will live even longer than the average European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68470	Thank you very much. For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68471	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Just about this political consensus that he was talking about. The very fact of how many political actors are present tonight in the Parliament, and that when it exposes one of the main political actors from this, that conditionally speaking, let's say on the ruling side, that actually the hall is half empty and that it actually shows that no one is interested and that I am afraid and that I will continue to be slightly disappointed with the style of actually discussing these important topics. It seems to me in this House here, at least now present only fellow Shakespeare, the President of the Parliament Mr. Shakespeare has a longer internship than I have and that I was present at the adoption of all four already how many health strategies there have been. I have to admit, in 15 years, to live through four health strategies that he's finally offering me as someone, as a way out that I'm going to live a little longer that doesn't even have to be so bad. But it actually shows all of ours, all of our infirmities. All our powerlessness, because you know there's this story where they got into a fight in the 5th century before the new era of the Persians and the Greeks, and then the Persians had some big ships, and the Greeks had a little bit less, so there was a big storm, so the Greek ships were a little easier, easier to steer, that the Persian Emperor Darius had ordered that the sea be flogged, because then the sea and the storm had been accused of failing and defeating its great troma fleet. And that's actually showing that what we're doing with these strategies is that we're also actually slapping the sea and that in some way each government, and almost every minister has a strategy. I'm a witness and those famous 21st strategies. I must admit that, then I didn't speak at that time in 2000 after 3 January, my colleague Tibor Santo spoke of health as a man coming from that profession. But I was saying something about a strategy in science and education 21 so he told me a little bit odd that someone dares to be so pretentious that in the moment that these technological scientific paradigms change almost every year that someone dares to talk about health care in the 21st century or education, science or what I don't know when I say this paradigm change is so fast that what we already adopt as knowledge today is already showing up as if nothing like a certain delusion or even almost unknown. And then, I brought here and that quote of what that strategy said. It reads, "It was written by a team of 132 members and external associates, 3.4 university professors, 7 professors, 18 science doctors, 14 magistrates, 10 primarius, and a number of experts on non-medical issues.". And then this famous strategy said: "The health system in the Republic of Croatia will improve the quality of life through the preservation and improvement of the health of each individual and the entire population.". I mean, really a general place, but a man has to, sounds nice. He says: "In an effective and rational way, he will implement measures to protect and improve health, and to treat and rehabilitate the sick.", great, "the system will put the patient in a central and active role, and will be based on high, ethical and moral standards.". I don't know what would be a low ethical and immoral norm. But he also says, "The vision is based on its objectives on the European health policy, i.e. the health policy of the world healthcare organisation, which is implemented under the name and the password "Health for All!".". It's all great, but then it says what are the obstacles that won't happen. So says the rigidity of the existing system, a legislative regulation that weakly supports change, a lack of funding to implement reform objectives, resistance to reform, partial interests, an excessive political impact on the functioning of the health ministry, a weak horizontal and vertical link between certain segments of health. So a great vision is given, and then it really states why this vision cannot be realized. And today when I say that I'm a little disappointed right now, I can't and I don't want to agree to participate in discussions where the most important problem is the shift of directors. I would also be happy if, in my private, i.e. in my private, or private-public life, I had advocated exactly one professionalization and it was in some way that management in all institutions would be as independent as possible from political relations and that it did not matter which political flag or coalitions of the political flags were held at the town hall, the county assembly or finally this Parliament. It's just that we really give people so much time to make certain visions come true. And we here actually say more or less now the main actors are gone,... It's already too late, even though today there's no world championship coming down, it goes to who's changed the director. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's something we can't and we shouldn't agree to in any more serious debate that would want to solve health problems. In my taste, now I must say, there was a debate between my colleagues Ivanish. I think he pointed out as a man who eventually knows the system from the inside, he's just like I do who talks as a general practice politician, and then you have to talk about what you have just your attitude as a citizen and as a man who kind of thinks he knows some system of organization, and this is a complex system, a sensitive system, a delicate system that certainly these obstacles are the fact that there are always partial interests, that there is always this lack of our funding, but also here someone mentioned this investment. I'm afraid whenever investment is mentioned, then I'm always a little scared. I think that investment, that always, that it is a fertile soil for the outflows of the means that we could really use, find what we're about to miss if we really do not know 2 billion or how much money it takes for this system to function normally and to be able to meet its constitutional obligation, which is, indeed, how much society we're solid and that we're not even thinking about really discriminating people whether they have or don't have money, and then they can't be treated. Someone here said that, and that's true, and when a colleague Ivanis said up to 30% of the people were involved in the educational process and then from the social, this state budget is being allocated so much and so much money, and that health care takes care of every citizen and then someone added from that... Well, then it's not 100 but a slightly larger percentage of our population, and then the fact is that we as well as politics have to create these assumptions that this system would function normally because this is how we really stay on the surface, then all our discussions are ideological, and I think that ideological discussions with respect to this and that, and finally, according to my ideology, are ineffective and can't solve all the problems of society completely. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it would really be what and where my club will depend on supporting this package of laws whether the level of health care with these four laws will be reduced or not. If it's not going to go down or if it's going to have a tendency to increase then the HSLS club is going to give support to this package of laws, but it needs to be very, very honest, even sometimes it's better to be painfully honest so that we know what we're really up to than to fool ourselves and then to participate in the deception of this public. What's like reading and watching this package of laws is missing those simulations. You know the simulations to that man who's not from the system, but I mean those who are from the system, and yet they know that system mostly in part, it's very, very, not all doctors, doctors aren't ministers and they only know one narrow segment, it would still be very important for us laymen and people who still make decisions, who are raising them, that we have some simulations that might make it easier for us to make these very important decisions. I am aware that there are no painless reforms, that it must draw a line, that it must face what has happened in the past, but someone here has to tell me exactly that I am not fooling myself, by fooling myself and others whether Croatia needs this number of hospitals? When will this categorization be made? Whether there are just some parameters that show exactly the countries come to Denmark, but still, someone will say it again is not for comparison she has a number of residents like us, but certainly that the economic situation in one Denmark is not the same as the economic situation in Croatia, but how things work there, how they solve their conditionalally undeveloped because it is not there, not all Copenhagen, is not there in all parts of Denmark not running honey and milk or Finland or any other country that could compare with us how they solve these problems. If really every county center has to have its own hospital and then it really is a thing then you, then this local policy is also being placed in that function so I don't know, so we recently defended the hospital in Nasice and there was a trend, we went to Nasice and we said, I have to admit, now I can honestly say that I wasn't sure with that information that I got whether I was talking nonsense or actually just want to like the citizens of Nasic. Here's how the President of Parliament says it's easier for me because I said I should, but that's the thing. You know that rationalization is very important because obviously I say these money exists somewhere, and I think that none of us here can be insensitive to it, no one can ignore the sense of solidarity and just that awareness that health is actually the most important thing in life, that without health is nothing that we really see where there are those possibilities of saving, saving that. Because what a colleague said is either someone's going to give it to the outside or we're going to lower it or it's going to cut the service by that amount. No, that's the third option. So I'm saying, we're going to listen carefully to the minister and the malnutrition when we talked about the national strategy was not directed against Mr. Ljubicic as minister but was just pointing against ourselves who I say is making it easy for us to bring national strategies. I read one here. I could have been more ironic, more cynical but there's really no need and the first one was pretentious and the second one, except for those general places, these most accurate were these obstacles, but there was no such thing as this famous need, and we're going to need that willing moment to do something and I didn't actually feel that something important was going on in my town, in my county, it happened about this fact and what we're also insisting on, although perhaps I didn't hear the minister today, the club of our party also insists that hospital management needs to be shared and separate that economic, economic story from this medical story because we're doing this, we're spending people who, in fact, from good or perspective doctors, actually become bad managers. And what you know is that I also have to admit to this same surprise, that you can owe someone 500 or 90 or more, even 500 days saying that you owe some pharmaceutical industry the Clinical Hospital in Osijek and that if someone owes him that big money, it can actually be like nothing happened. They're one of those famous parasites. Then obviously the price of their product is abnormal, and I also think that we as a legislative body have the opportunity to put an end to that practice and then really not listen to those stories and not be exposed to terror exactly to those who obviously can live and can wait and actually wait over interest and I don't know what to do with the costs and bring this one anyway I tell the financial substance of health even more in a difficult position. And I'm about to conclude. We don't mind supporting it. And critics said there's really news in these legal solutions, there's good things. I'm here from those people who like to look positive, who wants to be optimistic in life and not just look at the blackness and pessimism and criticism at all costs just because it comes from some other political option, but we're also looking for these answers that are very important whether after all this, that level of health service will be reduced or will be held back or there's really some simulation that will convince us that I don't know in a year or two or three of them will be better. And what's just like that, I think that health care is actually the last thing where we should fight politically, actually ideologically than it should be able to reach this necessary consensus as soon as possible because in the end we are talking to a hundred percent of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68472	Thank you. And distinguished representative Josip Sudec on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68473	Dear ladies and gentlemen! I, last time on behalf of the club, expressed dissatisfaction with the health strategy and today I find that the biggest trap of health reform is its indeterminateness. Why? So because these four laws ahead of us will regulate healthcare in 85 sublegal acts. I don't know if it's necessary, I'm not a health care professional. So, should all of this be prescribed by sublegal acts, whether it is necessary for a doctor to do the work technology, or if we are prescribing certain restrictions. If these are restrictions that go in terms of reducing waiting, to be less unquality medicines, to keep the prescription restrictions as low as possible, to be a manual as possible. Therefore, if they go in terms of limitations, it is something that will feel the health of people. Therefore, theoretically okay, we are not reducing or reducing the basic healthcare package but the question is whether or not we can maintain its quality. We were present at the workshop. So, we've been in training for two days, and then two days later, we analyzed the law ourselves by law. We have objections, but we also have commendation for some things that we consider to be well solved. Here are the first comments on the amendment and additions of the Health Protection Act. We believe that the assessment given to it is that the irrational organisation of health activities, poor control of health costs, long-term uncontrollable work, the growth of health spending has led to enormous losses. However, no one is responsible for that. We didn't say in strategy or here that someone was responsible for it. How did he respond? We've changed people. They said they were responding and whether these people were able to do anything at a given time and whether it was objective or subjective guilt, we didn't know much about it. Secondly, whether the future primary health care will take over 70% of the services, or still there will be 70% of the services will remain in the hospitals and primary health care will continue to be protected on its 30% head and will be well again. I mean, we couldn't find the answer. There may be answers in those sublaws, but we don't know these sublaws right now. Okay, we think it is good to propose greater responsibility for management staff and management boards for financial operations, which is positive and should certainly be installed. However, the expert board and their role are particularly the Professional Council on Primary Health Protection not sure enough that they will play their positive role. We have individual remarks. I don't think we should read them here because we have 25 observations, so we have some articles that we want to do, or we're going to try to coordinate. We'd like this law to be as high-quality as possible. If we don't do it then we'll go through the amendments. The second is the proposed law on professional illnesses and injuries at work. We believe that the Health Insurance and Protection Act... health since he's been doing a positive job so far that he doesn't need to be singled out and additional costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He should be a division in our opinion at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute because we are afraid of something. You will not be able to prove to private insurance companies that it is not workers' fault because he will always say that the disease was caused by workers' guilt because he did not keep certain means of protection at work and neither the health care institution nor the worker will be able to charge the costs of the private insurance company. That's what we're afraid of. Because you know what in business. He always wants responsibility to be transferred to the weaker link in that entire chain. We also have our proposals regarding the Mandatory Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Act. So we're open to talking. The strategy has been adopted. Returning to her is no more. So let's move on and see what we can do in this entire system to improve to mutual satisfaction. If our three votes are crucial in that. And what you'd say in the end is that I'd be a little bit unserious. It would be best if the minister were to suggest that for all, for all diseases in this Croatian health care, one medicine should be prescribed. .../The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68474	Thank you very much. Now we're going to individual debates. Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68475	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is already quite an hour, but I think this topic is quite serious that we can approach it this way because we are all aware at the end of the day, we have had the opportunity to hear this and when we have brought strategy and code, during the previous debate that health is burdened with a number of problems and that serious and systematic reform is necessary. We recently adopted a national health development strategy. We now have this package of health laws, and all together, in the view of this government, should be an introduction to a comprehensive and deep health reform that is of course necessary. But I'm afraid what we've been offered is far from a serious reform procedure in the health care system. The fact is that healthcare generates financial losses year after year and the whole system needs to be stabilised. If we are already talking about the needs of health savings, then it should be stressed that primary health care has a major impact on overall health spending because the main health needs of citizens should be addressed through this basic protection. And in a recently adopted health development strategy, special attention is paid to primary health care and it is stressed that it should address 70 to 80% of health problems. And the situation today is such that primary health care is literally left to itself through privatisation and disbanding of health homes. It's split into a series of small unrelated units. Health homes have lost the necessary medical and diagnostic equipment and primary health care has literally turned into a recipe-writing service or instructions for polyclinical specialist reviews. This is a bit absurd if we know that the first primary healthcare co-operation centre in Europe was founded right in Croatia. The Republic of Croatia then introduced the world's first specialisation in primary health care and established the world's first primary health care department in general. Process for... which began in 1994 broke the concept of so-called [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The printing system and since its introduction to this day shows many shortcomings. And that's why I'm surprised by Dr. Hebrang's claim, I'm sorry he wasn't here to discuss the health development strategy. I'll quote part of that statement. He said: The availability indicators of primary healthcare after the privatisation are based on the lease are incomparably better quality than before. This was published in international relevant magazines and followed by a scientific project that monitored the privatisation. I'd like to know which international magazines are being published so I can read that too to make sure my thinking is wrong. And as this alleged good availability of primary health care in practice seems to say a little later. Article 24 provides for the establishment of at least one health home in the area of the county, i.e. at least three homes in the Zagreb area and provides for the compulsory establishment of health homes on islands, Brac, Cres, Hvar, Korčula, Krka, Losinj, Trogir, Rab and Vis. However, in this proposed article, I do not understand who will decide how many health homes in a particular county we will have? On the basis of what criteria and indicators will these decisions be made? In addition, we now actually have in practice when health homes are concerned with the lower system. One part of the county spent uniting the health homes into a single system and part of the county didn't do it. The government immediately suspended further merger processes at the beginning of its term of office, explaining that the legality of the procedures for the merger of health homes in a single institution had to be established, as merger decisions were made by the county heads rather than by the county parliament. And it really doesn't comply with the law, but here's almost three years of the government's mandate and it's backed up by the status quo. One county, one county function in one way, and the other in another way...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68476	And good, please. My colleague is talking and you're saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68477	And now I'm interested in, or from this proposed law, it's not clear how this law will address the issue of counties that have independent health homes. It means whether all these homes of health will still survive or in some way be connected if we talk about having at least one home of health. On the basis of an assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of the proposed law, it can be concluded that only island health homes will be left alone, as they are the only ones who provide for the necessary resources. And then what exactly did we get for my county from which I came, for the Split-Dalmatia County? For a county that has been singled out as a county with the weakest territorial availability of hospitals in the health development strategy. We have a hospital and a county health home that works worse every year. And God forbid some banal injury like that happens to you. The fracture of my finger, which I had the opportunity to see for myself what it looks like in that case, not to mention lucky on a personal example, but for the example of one of my friends who came to the House of Health Makarska, they recorded on her x-ray finger, but since it was afternoon hours, she had no one to read the report because an x-rayologist, we only have one x-rayologist who works in the mornings doesn't work, so there's no afternoon shifts, no work on Saturdays, and of course no Sundays. With that video, she had to go to Split, and then in Split, they thought whether to put it in the cast or not, so they didn't have an aluminium holder, I'm not a doctor, so I can't use a professional name to put a finger on it. And in the end, that finger wrapped up in that classic way with the rainbow and it lasted all day. And the procedure could also be done at the House of Health in Makarska. And what's most interesting is actually that same home of health had a gypsum 20 years ago. It's just one banal example. And I repeat, we are still a tourist area. And now imagine a foreign tourist when something like that happens to him that torture must pass. I am convinced that in fact any problem, if not completely, and at least partially, can be solved and improved with reasonable relations to the problem and with proper communication. If, but the problem can't be solved in an Noahic way by putting the head in the sand, then the director of the county health home Mr. Fadalo declares that the health home of the Split-Dalmatia County has no problems, stressing how they function better than all other health homes in the country. And then he refuses any talks at the invitation of all political parties from the City of Makarska to respond to a meeting where problems should be reasonably considered and to try to find a way out of the existing situation to improve healthcare. Not only did Mr. Fallen and the mayor not only disobey that call but they didn't even find it appropriate to justify their absence. And for this reason, without the systematic resolution of health problems in Split-Dalmatia County, only these amendments that you propose by the proposal of the Health Protection Act will not do much to improve healthcare in this area. And an example of being able to do a lot with a little goodwill and in the existing frameworks, here we have recently been in the area of the Macarska coast, the City of Makarska and all the neighbouring municipalities have managed to conclude one agreement and an agreement that the joint forces will be financed by another emergency medical assistance team. Because I'm saying again, we're a tourist area and we're aware that we can't always expect others to solve something, and we know how well the operation of emergency medical care in this area means. So just one example of how, with little goodwill, small steps can be taken towards improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68478	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68479	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Health is the most important prerequisite for the quality functioning of society as a whole. I do not agree with the thesis highlighted in the assessment of the state of the amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act, as well as the introduction of the National Health Development Strategy 2006/2011. to reorganise the health system by entering the European Union in order to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union. We do not have to do this to adapt to EU legislation, but primarily because of the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I do not agree with the the thesis that, quote: "Deep reform of health funding", is completed quote, urgent and necessary as a way to resolve the irrational organisation of health care, poor control and uncontrolled cost growth. Therefore, these laws highlight the problems of irrational, hence poor healthcare organisations are resolved by introducing new burdens while reducing patients' rights, while essentially doing nothing or not doing enough to improve the bad organisation. It is said that reconstruction and health reform will be implemented through, among other things, centralised policy, planning and control of implementation, and through decentralisation of governance and accountability. For example, the ministry determines how much and how it is spent in hospitals, among other things in the county, and the county that has responsibility for its financing cannot affect the system of functioning. Therefore, the state determines the prices of services and the counties remain payment and liability. It turns out that the pompously announced health reform has turned into smoke. Still, she carries really big changes. Less patient rights for a higher price of service. And who gets hurt? You know, the ones with the lowest income. The promoter will say that health care is available to everyone. But I wonder what about those who cannot pay the amount necessary for the most efficient and qualitative protection? What about workers who are not adequately treated with serious illness? The reason is more, the loss of the living room, the risk of job loss if disease is identified, the inability to finance treatment, etc. What about the unemployed? So these proposals also demean the Croatian Parliament because no relevant remarks from the previous debate have been observed in which these solutions have been assessed as bad. Mechanisms are not offered to resolve the existing debts of county hospitals, nor are they to be created in the future. It's obvious that the county can't handle them on its own. It is obvious that our ministries do not know what they are doing because legal solutions have been proposed in a conflict with amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which allow large cities to establish an institution in primary health care. In these amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, all stops at the county level. I couldn't read out of this text who was going to start hospices, etc. institutions up to the level of the county, and according to the law, large cities can do so. To offer the laws more poorer solutions, I will illustrate it with one example. Rijeka cannot open a children's child protection policy against abuse and neglect, whose activity is affecting the area of mental health by modeling it in Zagreb because it is not the city of County like Zagreb. By including healthcare in the primary health care system, it was not clear whether the nurses were returned to the authority to administer perenteral, I do not know exactly these medical terms, perenteral treatments in the home of patients without the presence of a doctor or whether or not the nurse’s chamber was manifested. It would also be good to regulate the issue of compulsory doctor’s appointment after completing a medical study, and before a national exam without a young doctor can’t start working in the health care service. In fact, now most of them are forced to volunteer. The proposed legal decisions do not clearly define the rights of the patient, i.e. no number of recipes, laboratory findings and instructions, but will be determined by the Regulation by the Minister depending on the financial means available. So it turns out that the scope of law will be variable, which means that the patient will never know what rights he has at that time. Additional insurance no longer solves the problem of pensioners and elderly people whose healthcare is most needed and who are the most socially vulnerable, so it will now be necessary to provide additional or private health insurance because health becomes a luxury product that they already find difficult to buy, and in the future will be able to do so harder. No one bought the disease, and it's unforgivable to use it to fill the budget. A system of solidarity should be developed that would increase healthy isolation for health care, especially for those with higher incomes. This primarily refers to the problem of the underlying and supplemental drug lists. In fact, no matter how much the promoter assures us that the medicines on the baseline list are the same as those on the supplemental list in public, we haven't had a chance to hear a competent assessment or an opinion, for example. medical chambers whether it is the same to use the original or its cheaper replacement. This is particularly important in long-term patients using several medicines, which are successfully controlled by the disease, and now they will be forced to change it with questionable effect. You can't even see how much extra insurance costs are going to be. The integrated healthcare system isn't the discovery of America because we had it 20 years ago. It's good to finally realize that this system was good, so we're back to it, but the question is how do we implement 80% of the health problems of citizens in primary health care? So you need to invest again in the equipment and education of the professional staff that will implement the system. There is a reference to prevention. The question is which preventive services and what personnel will reduce mortality from, for example, cardiovascular diseases, malignancies or diabetes? How will this be done when prevention is carried out through 3 systems, checks and infants and young children, school protection that comes down to systematic checks and vaccinations and patronage? In school care, doctors for sick children are discontinued, so they go either to a pediatrician or to an adult doctor. Prevention that prevents expensive treatment of surgery, medicines, therapy, hospital treatment, specialist processing and is similar to the cheapest part of health care, and is not practically implemented through the proposed legal solutions. Finally, I would like to give an example of preventive healthcare. The Primorje-Gorski County is starting with a project of continuous implementation of free mammographic checks to be financed from the county budget and the local self-government unit in whose area the reviews will be carried out. The project's holder is the Institute of Public Health of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, but according to the agreement reached in financing, the state had to participate with one-third of the costs but has so far not given a single kuna and is not known when or whether it will give at all. And let me finish. Proposers of this package should have taken into account the remarks heard during the previous debate and installed them in the first reading proposal in order to obtain a serious and quality health reform in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but it seems to me that there was obviously no knowledge or will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68480	Rescue company. Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68481	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Hebrang, a colleague, said that as Croatia, we are only in health care and football at world level. I know that we were at 23rd place in football until the other day, behind this I don't know where we're going to be, and in health school says colleague Hebrang somewhere around 30th, 40th place, and I would say that also about health care and football, we all understand each other, so let me be a sailor, but a seaman who sailed on overseas ships without a doctor and who had to take an exam from ship medicine and was some little doctor to that ship to say a few words about these laws that were too important before us in the debate at this late hour and to say that two months ago we discussed this same package of laws and the strategy of health development from 2006 to 2011 and that it was expected that there would have been a number of complaints from the promoters in view of the number of remarks both the clubs and the fact that the position and the opposition had been accepted to be a preliminary debate, that it was expected that there would have been a number of objections that we were made in the proposals today. I've read it carefully and seen it and compared it from the previous debate, I see something really embedded, but I don't think it's enough for me. Here's the other day we adopted a health strategy, it's about one document, which is really just a demonstration of the historical gains of Croatian health care and an insufficient display of the current problems, that there are no precise objectives, no measures, no deadlines, no reformers, and no criteria for assessing its effectiveness, but one thing is certain, it's about reducing the patient's right, so however we perceive it today. It is that patients will pay more and get less, it is that health will be provided to those who will be able to pay it and in this set of laws that we are discussing today is clearly the intention of further reducing patients' right to... We too in the SDP, and I also personally understand that health care is needed to find additional sources of income, but not through patient participations, not from introducing administrative fees, but from a different tax system that we have proposed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is now proposed clearly says that there is no real rationalization of the system but in fact the transfer of burdens to patients, to elderly and powerless, to pensioners who agree most heavily. We know that today's health care activity is burdened by terrible problems, which are the biggest of which for the time being is an insurmountable financial deficit. The financial situation and better norms for the treatment and stay of patients in hospitals can only be corrected by additional means, we understand. That means getting a new source of funding, but not for example... introduced by the current government by a different tax policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are health care professionals today, and this should be said mainly by doctors and principals of the county hospitals because of restrictive measures against patients in the position of the executioner, and all the anger of the patients is directed right towards them. One day, a doctor at a pulse hospital told me that they had never worked more than today and that at the same time, patients were never more dissatisfied than they are today. If he's lying, I'm lying, too, but from what I see, it seems to me that's exactly the way it is. Despite me, the doctor must first of all be a person who will recommend everything patients need to be instructed to protect their rights to competent institutions responsible for de jure. The doctor must not be a lawyer for the bad rules he has made and which the patient feels unjust. In the circumstances in which health care is taking place today in these laws and these laws will not improve. In addition to existing restrictions, we have limited technological lagging, poor comfort in hospitals, waiting lists, poorly organised patronage and home care, and evident mixing of public and private medicine, and in these and such circumstances, of course possible corruption, fighting for a position on the waiting list, etc. These laws keep a basket of services questionably the same, all truths will have the right to certain health care... but will have to be participated depending on the property situation from 5 to 50%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Two drug lists are introduced. A basic which is available to everyone and a supplement that is available to me only to the rich. That's the principle of health to those who have greater pay power. Now, it's hard, Mr. Hebrang, as a top doctor, the specialist here assured us of the minister and, besides, all the colleagues who are medical professions in this assembly are saying it's the same medicines. It's like I'm saying that my colleague Hebrang is going with me as a seaman to discuss whether the divergence of meridians affects the loxodore course and if you don't consider the divergence of meridians, you'll come to the port of destination. I'd say let's try to come and prove we're not coming. I believe that it is not the same, and if that is the case then we reject this list of supplementary insurance to be all the same, that we all have a basic list but I believe that in this and such situation those objectives would not be achieved and therefore I cannot accept these arguments about the identity of the original and generic medicines and it is unacceptable for an ordinary citizen and it is that this special list will be used by those who will be able to pay without saying that the administrative fee remains. The possibility of insurance companies contract insurance policies is being opened, which could lead to the purchase of supplementary insurance. If we know that today, for example, an additional insurance policy at the Institute pays about 300 thousand pensioners at the price of 50 kuna per month and that about 700 thousand were released by participation by removing part of the participation from the additional policy at the Institute for example for differences in the price of medicines between the basic list and the supplementary list of pensioners will have to pay another 15% of the price with an administrative fee. I understand he's not gonna pay for the drugs on that basic list. And one more thing I want to say, there is no category of hospitals in the bill, which is inadmissible, and when it comes to Istria, where unfortunately another county comes from, by all indications, is in a very bad position. On a ranking list of areas where patients are more than 50 kilometers away from the hospital is located in an infamous 3rd place. And now, in a negative context, the pulsic famous hospital has been debated forever, and tonight, a colleague of Hebrang has taken advantage of the opportunity to address the words of criticism which, of course, go to the leadership of both the hospital and us in local self-government. However, it should be taken into account objective circumstances and, among other things, those of the Government until the 1990s, when we assured them that without additional resources, it was not possible to organise work in two locations, but it continued to do so and thus increased hospital costs. As far as concrete remarks on certain articles of the law are concerned, I would not particularly argue because much has been said in the debate and in the previous debate if there is political will or if there is a clear approach to this problem which should not be a political issue this promoter can put them into law until the second reading, and as far as I am concerned, I would like the position to be as excellent, excellent or good as it is intended to be shown. However, I am afraid it is not, and I would like it to be exactly how the position wants to be shown not because of HDZ or SDP but because of the citizens of Croatia, but I am afraid it is not how it is tried to present itself and through this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68482	Thank you. And respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68483	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Please welcome Mr. Minister, who is here with incredible and inadmissible non-chalantity ignores this big problem here, the nation's health problem, practically that and the nation's security because he's not here. And ask him if he is aware that he is responsible for the health of the nation, for its citizens whose immunity falls and the pressure rises from growing health burdens. And you see, while Andrija Printar's long-standing work celebrated and celebrated Croatia's epidemiology throughout the world, our minister was celebrated in a very short time by saying literally that the government will not invest in health care. Just one example. So we have a situation that today Croatia can no longer produce ordinary vaccine, so multinational pharmaceutical companies are following and therefore destroyed the office and the director herself of the office claims that Croatia, with little investment, would be able to produce vaccines again. For example, when it was current and always can become a new active vaccine against bird flu for its own needs but there is no investment because it says the minister will not invest in health care. So that was one moment of truth. However, for us Social Democrats, for the whole social democracy, and for me, too, health policy is one of the most important issues that we are concerned about and should be taken into account and which, in this particular issue, we want to be supportive so that at a time like this the government and the consolidation of the political forces therefore provide us with one support in this way of thinking. That we should ask the question so that we invest in health care to be richer and not as unfortunately as we rule it as the right hand or the right center in the best case of such one, such a political classification is understood, so we will invest in health when we are rich or how much we have. That's just inadmissible. The health and health of the nation, the health of every single one of our people, our citizen must be one basic category, one value that cannot in general be subject to the laws of the market. Health is not a commodity. She's not being marketed. She's not for sale. It's not traded. It's nice and moving to listen to you when you're advocates and when you talk about the right and even the unborn to life. It's very nice to listen, but to us, but we can't be hypocritical, so when you're born with our efforts, let them live, that's how long they can live. How rich they are, as much as they can be treated. It's something inadmissible and I think it's one hypocritical policy. If, then, we advocate that every child is born, each conceived hypocritically is not to make health and health available to all. There's a Swedish on that trail. She didn't send out words of solidarity. Because everything that's been going on in Croatia for many years hasn't happened by chance. That's why a special dictionary was created. So the words solidarity, cohesion, community are exiled, expelled from our vocabulary as well as precisely because, I agree, they agree because they have often been abused. But words are nothing to blame. And we need to train this very spirit of unity, cohesion on this particular issue, or live. You see in one so-called Sweden that I do not compare the income per capita for a review, even if it was him and Ingmar Kampart, one of the four richest people in the world will not pay more than EUR 100 per year or EUR 200 per year for medicines. So this country where we have to strive has a system where the smallest mortality is, and the oldest country by the age of the population. There is a system that allows for exactly this kind of payment and payment system to prevent people from making a unnecessary and unnecessary visit to a doctor, but also allows for the availability of medicines to all the poorest and especially to chronic patients who often need medicines. Here we have this privatisation, so celebrated and praised it has actually brought defeating results in health care. Private healthcare professionals are primarily well-paid but not all for the health of the necessary services. For a health care service covered by mandatory insurance, it takes a long time to wait. And with the privateer of that same, in the same rooms, state spaces, you can come to the public spaces immediately only have to pay separately. ... No, that's exactly what you introduced during the first term of office and the first of your original authority during the time of Minister Hebrang. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So read the history of your own party a little bit, and you will know and do not speak in your mind. But what's particularly dangerous here is particularly dangerous, it's not just about legal uncertainty, it's about something that's being manipulated. And what the minister boasts about tomorrow will come at the checkout when they see patients being played. According to this package of laws, tens of sublegal acts must be passed. Under the existing law, or according to existing norms in the draft laws, is it unclear whether a right will also be exercised in what way? So you'll see when the sublegal acts come into force what will remain of that and such a right? What if I wasn't talking in my head and that the paradigm of what I'm about to say is just what kind of protection is it? Two proposals here, the law of this package, so-called. health reforms provide for a criminal offence of default, i.e. failure to pay off health insurance. And a well-intentioned reader can say, "Look, great." Even in these special laws, specific criminal legislation is defined, which is not common. This is extremely rare and difficult for the most severe injuries to certain social relations. But he sees miracles in the Penal Code for many years, or there has always been a crime of tax evasion and contributions. So both health and pension where... Six months minimum sentence, five years maximum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you, therefore, protect those employers or workers who punish employers who would dare not pay health insurance for the worker. And what does that accomplish? It's a great shame that you planted and it's based on the basic principle of the Penal Code to apply the law that's lighter and you here inauguration the soft law and quite unnecessary. So from a theoretical point of view, it's completely unnecessary because we have this crime. And you predict a new one, don't nod your head if it isn't, there's a crime of tax evasion and a contribution to Article 238. And what you don't know, don't nod your head 'cause it's an irrefutable fact. So don't beg here to refute the irrefutable facts because... [[The intruders don't understand.]] Here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you're not on... Yeah, it's funny for you here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68484	Mira! Mira! Mira!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68485	You think it's funny because you think you've been able to trick people again. And your entire policy and... It's about how to figure it out, not how to solve the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's unserious. That's unserious. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68486	Mira, peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68487	That's what leads to the collapse of the public sector. The British magazine "The Economist" is by no means some revolutionary disruptor as you might be able to transfer us to me personally, but please, their finest feathers have written this too, neoliberalism is a major danger, it is similar to AIDS, destroying the immune system of its victims. And you who are most responsible for health are destroying his immune system. And don't forget, and the defense of the country was possible in such a successful way because we had a healthy nation at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68488	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, honourable representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68489	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues said in a multitude of inaccuracies, and I would say one key, which refers to the health of children that we are all sensitive to here and said that this country and this system do not care about the protection of children's health, which is completely incorrect. And I will now prove with a report from the latest World Health Organization report that says that child mortality is below 5 years old. In Croatia, the mortality rate is 7, which is among the least in Europe. For comparisons one Austria has 6 and still for comparison unfortunately one Bosnia and Herzegovina has 17, not much more. Therefore, it is clear evidence that Croatia is taking care of the health of its children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68490	And respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68491	counterpart Anticevic said that Mr. Hebrang, as former minister, had introduced the legal practice that healthcare professionals outside of working time in public space, the area of health institutions with the means of health institutions are carrying out private practice and particularly charging. That's not true. During former Minister Hebrang, so before your government, a law was passed in the government before your government that allowed healthcare professionals to practice private practice in private institutions, not in their own institutions, but in private institutions. That's a huge difference. And you have just changed the law and allowed private practice to be carried out in health institutions and to be particularly charged. And that's what he wants to change. And colleagues of Antičević if someone listened to you on the side of how you talk about Croatian health care, about the effort and knowledge of healthcare professionals in Croatia and said what this is, there will be mass euthanasia here. This is scary, so you can't really listen anymore. That's scary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68492	Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petričević, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68493	Your Honor, my colleague. 10 minutes of your inaccuracy is not enough for me to tell you in two minutes, so the minister's responsibility is not manifested about his failure here tonight, because he was half an hour ago gone, and in your time it happened day by day, so when you were a minister, you often knew how to avoid responsibilities in the Croatian Parliament. That'd be the first one. Hypocritical policy. It is not true that this government is running a hypocritical policy, it is manifested in the responsibility of this government and we will seek to justify it in front of the Croatian public both in front of the Croatian people and through the health strategy that we have promised. Take care of every child born, please don't call us morals. And I guess they'd say better if you didn't kill, or the bug died the moment she bit you. And a speech from your colleague is my favorite when you keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68494	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68495	Mr. President, yesterday I called this frequent violation of the Rules of Procedure as well as this moment in Article 209. So it's not just a violation of the Rules of Procedure anymore, it's really a business nihilism that's been frequented, including a colleague and many others, and then I refer to it, they don't respect it. This was not about any correction of an incorrect quote, it was about the replication here. It's replicated. She tells me I'm incorrectly saying this is the only thing, but it's not inaccuracy. If I said they didn't lead... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68496	It's a little bit omitted to indicate which provision of the Rules of Procedure has been violated, which is, I mean, it should have been in the beginning. So I can't show myself whether, I can't give you the right to be hurt by the Rules of Procedure when you didn't specify which provision was violated. ... That's what you said when? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what you said the other day, the other day. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. She's gone. He's also losing his right to say a word. On behalf of the HDZ club, a five-minute debate, respected Vice-President Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68497	Two minutes. Here I am, if I hadn't come to this last individual debate I would have said, we were successful, we were able to have a less rigorous discussion about health care and health reform between the previous reading and this first reading. For the last time in my presentation, I said ten minutes of exposure as a doctor, they raised us, we need to rise above the narrow political interests of the health system. As the distinguished representative Opacic today called the minister and accused him of abolishing the right to these little ones who were up there today. I would say most of Croatia was raised in that Catholic Christian debt so we can say my sin, my sin, my excessive sin if it was the minister's fault. It doesn't matter who's guilty or who picked up any political points because they got their right back. The important thing is they got it back. I think that and that way of debate should prevail when it comes to health care. It is not true that we in HDZ believe that the health system is working and that we are satisfied with the functioning of the health system, because in any case, we would not try to regulate this health system through legislation so that tomorrow it will be better for everyone in the Republic of Croatia. It is a non-functional system, irrational consumption, uncontrolled consumption, but you cannot take away our courage I will tell the Government of the Republic of Croatia that during this sensitive period this hot potato tries to get out of that fire and try this health system in the last year and a half of its term of office to make it better. Often today, a list of A and B medicines is mentioned here, two lists of medicines, and additional insurance, and we have also heard from the opposition a lot of suggestions, too many suggestions, and I think we have good suggestions. I now call on them on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club to call on the opposition between these two readings, between the first reading and the second reading, if we are to sit together, if we can make one consensus on these laws and on the matter, let's say the start of the reform of the health system to rise up once again on behalf of the patients, on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, of the narrow party interests and to do something together for health tomorrow. If you remember, and the distinguished representative remembers Opačić, I said for the last time to make one political consensus, that party that gets the election in a year and a half, those others who will be in opposition should support the reform of the health system. Here I hope that we have made progress today, yet we have had a less bile debate on the health system, on these legal proposals, and I hope that in the second reading it will be even less bile and that we will come to such a general consensus, and all for the benefit of the patients that we are discussing these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-28-0.u68498	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on these four laws in my first reading. Tomorrow we will start, we should have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, but we went very quickly, and the committees tomorrow have a debate on those two, on this law, so that we will skip and return and start with the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, and then the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defenders from the Homeland War and the Fund for the Scholarship of Croatian Defence, and then the Law on Weapons, and then these contracts, these two contracts and three contracts, then return to this Law on the Croatian National Bank in Amendments, etc. So, pick up tomorrow at 9:30. Now we have four of these health spectrum laws. First Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, first reading. In conclusion, I propose to vote: "The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 68 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 30 against the proposed conclusion.
