ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65063	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This is the second program project within the ISPA program that is at this session of the Assembly. You had a chance last week to hear something about a piece that was funded in a segment where ISPA funded traffic. Therefore, ISPA is one of the three pre-accession programmes that Croatia has become useful to since it became a candidate for membership in the European Union, i.e. from the moment it received a pre-accession strategy. How important money is and is very important to highlight, so the money that Croatia receives for accession to the European Union is, therefore, in this segment of compliance with those directives that require extremely high investment, which is in the area of the water economy, i.e. environmental protection. So in total, Croatia has received 245m euros in two years for how long ISPA, SAPARD and PAR programmes will last. This has already increased to 252 million in the last year, and we hope that with the FAR in 2006 we may be able to get some more money so that the total amount will be even bigger at the end. About how big and significant the movement is compared to the time before we were candidates tells the fact that in two years we now have as much money as we used in... for four years when we had a total of 262 million euros for the period 2001 to 2004. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in the environmental protection sector, two projects eventually went through. One of them is on the table today, it is in the protection of the environment, so in the water economy water purifier and waste water, so water supply in the town of Karlovac. Another project that has passed, which is actually the total location of 60m euros that Croatia has in two years in ISPA is intended for, or used in the way that the project is programmed... the protection of waste currently in conformity with the European Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This project is worth a total of 36m euros, of which ISPA funds 22.5m euros, 10m euros is the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 3 and a half million goes from the Croatian budget. What is significant is that this infrastructure project must ultimately be used by the end of 2010 which means that within two years of this year all funds must be agreed and in the next two years these funds must be paid off, otherwise they will have to be returned to the budget of the European Union. So it's a big project, it's a very important area. What is important for Croatia is that now it is actually the first major infrastructure projects, what so far within... We haven't had a chance to finance it begins to be possible now with ISPA and what will be the successor of ISPA since 2007, which is the IPA programme that will have a segment of environmental protection and, therefore, environmental and transport protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I might have stood here just so much to say that we had a few projects on the table when we started programming, but some projects weren't in enough stages of maturity, so they didn't have the preconditions they were supposed to have at the time when we decided which projects would come to the table, namely they had to have made environmental impact studies, feasibility studies, ransom, land purchases, etc. And so, finally, the number of projects that we nominated was reduced to approximately this number that finally went through, but since all the money was used in this way we believe that this job was well done and we believe that, given that the indicative list that is the environmental strategy, so in which both this part of the water and part of the waste protection, waste management, there will be a lot more candidates for the money that will be allocated to the IPA, because in the indicative list of projects proposed by the two ministries there are more than 10 projects that are now in line. Here I think this is where I'd end up. If there's any questions, I'll be very happy to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65064	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65065	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In June 2004, Croatia became a candidate country for membership in the European Union and as a consequence of its new status, pre-accession funds PAR, ISPA and SAPARD opened up to it. During 2005 and 2006, these programmes replaced the "KARC" programme and thus became the main sources of external aid programmes. The total aid for Croatia through pre-accession funds for the period 2005, 2006 is 252m euros. Individually for 2005 105m euros for 2006 as well. 140 million euros. For the first time, European funds are funded really large infrastructure projects that have a direct impact on the quality of life of citizens, such as in this case, the water and waste water programme in Karlovac. The funds for the ISPA programme of 60m euros for the Republic of Croatia in 2005, were allocated between the environment and transport sectors to three large infrastructure projects. It is a programme for water and waste water in Karlovac, a regional waste dump in Sibenik-Knin County and reconstruction of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik-The state border we discussed as the last item of the agenda last week. The competent resolution authorities have prepared projects that fit the national strategic documents, and they also meet the criteria set by ISPA. This is the value of a project greater than 5m euros, positive effects for as many people as possible as possible, as well as a focus on the adoption of the European Union's acquis. The maturity criteria, i.e. the necessary elements such as documentation, implementation teams, financial resources and others, should be met to ensure timely and effective use of the funds. This reduces the risk of potential non-exploitation of funds to a minimum. However, it will take a lot of seriousness to implement these projects because in the next 2 years everything needs to be agreed, then done and used by the end of 2010 because otherwise unused funds will have to be returned. This Memorandum of Finance falls within the first 2 contracts concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the support of the European Union through pre-accession measures in the Republic of Croatia. It regulates the financial participation of the European Union, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, and establishes the technical, legal and administrative framework within which projects will be implemented. The project Programme for Water and Waste Water in Karlovac implies the construction of a new wastewater treatment plant in the town of Karlovac as well as the extension and modernisation of the city water and sewerage network. The European Commission grants a 22.5m-euro grant to this contract while the budget of the Republic of Croatia amounts to 3 and a halfm euros for implementation. And loan funds... EUR 10 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total value of the project to be completed by the end of 2010 is therefore 36m euros and the financing structure is the following. European Commission funds through ISPA fund 22.5m euros or 62.5%. The state budget of 3 and a half million euros or 9.7% and the loan of the European Bank 10m euros or 27.8% taken over by the company Water and sewerage in Karlovac. Karlovac is a city that has four beautiful rivers, which unfortunately are not protected enough. The town of Karlovac has built a mixed wastewater drain system, mostly built in the 1930s. Currently, wastewater is uncleaned through six major discharges, mainly in the Coop River, which passes through the city centre. 2 discharges in the river Režnica, which directly affects the quality of water in the river Koran, which also flows through the city and on whose coasts are the main water parks and bathrooms. There is no wastewater treatment plant in Karlovac and therefore a new waste water treatment system is envisaged as part of the project to ensure that all collected waste water in the city is purified according to the standards of the European Union and Croatia. The project consists of investment items divided into 3 categories. Water supply, draining and technical assistance. Investments in water supply will contribute to the minimalisation of risks that could endanger water quality by restoring key elements of the system, and by introducing network management systems to help achieve the safe functioning of the supply system and reduce water loss. Investment in disposal will restore and complete the main elements of the wastewater disposal system as foreseen by the European Directive on the treatment of urban wastewater. By building new collectors, the wastewater drain network will focus on the location of a future wastewater treatment plant downstream of the city. This will eliminate all mentions of the drop so far and protect the city's water supply and bathing sites. A central wastewater treatment plant for the towns of Karlovac and Duga Resa will be built in a location downstream of Karlovac, where waste water treatment will be carried out prior to the drop in the Kupu River. The device will be the capacity of 100,000 equivalent inhabitants. The project is carried out by the company "Vodovod i canalizacija" in Karlovac and I am pleased to conclude that both the water and sewerage and the city administration in Karlovac have carried out quality of all the necessary preparatory activities related to the preparation of this project and thus enabled its realization. The city purchased land on the collector's route and a future wastewater purifier worth approximately 5 million kuna. As its own participation in the project, the company "Vovovod i canaliza" took the EBRD loan of 10m euros per 12-year term with a 3-year grace period. In order for the project to be implemented, it is necessary to confirm this agreement in the Croatian Parliament as well. The approval of the agreement is also required because ISPA is an instrument of assistance that requires co-financing. Since it is a truly significant grant as well as an important and quality programme to be financed by the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports this Memorandum of Finance. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65066	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65067	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The club of HNS representatives will, of course, support this Law for a thousand and one reason. One of them is that projects like this, this project specifically shows that some kind of political collapse that we are otherwise prone to projects benefiting the state, in favour of the local community, we can both skip and ignore and make some use of the common forces. Namely, this project was designed during the last city government in Karlovac, where I had the honour of participating, with great effort, maru, and the pawn and head of Finance and Director of Vodavod, current HDZ Mayor and another number of people in Karlovac who really tried to design this project in a way to get through these scissors and sieves of control of the European Community. The new government in Karlovac has accepted the project as its own and has done everything possible to achieve the realisation, including all necessary paperwork, the purchase of land and all that needs to be done. It's all done and the project is ahead of us. We therefore have a total of EUR 36 million, of which 20 and so much grants. So the chances that the European Union is giving us to adapt in this segment, in these segments, to standards and to enter tomorrow with, at a higher level, into the society of European countries where it is clear that water is the greatest natural wealth. That we have to do everything we can to protect this treasure. That tomorrow we'll be as strategically independent as we have clean water, and strategically dependent as we have to ask for someone else's help to get that clean water. The importance of clean water is not to be told much. We all know a lot about that. I just want to say something about how much it means to the town of Carlovac and its surroundings. You know, Karlovac was built planically on that ground that surrounds four rivers and those four rivers were still ahead of let's say 30 years, 40 while I was swimming on them were crystal clear including the Cup. And we used to take baths at the Cup. But then came the rapid industrialization. She came in, she actually came in for the construction of unadjusted industrial and other objects. The Cup was the first to die in that. After that, the Retina was also killed. The other two rivers are suffering, and obviously the moment has come, and this gives us a chance to stop this negative trend and the project says that after it is finished, the water of the Kupa River behind Karlovac will therefore be placed behind all the pollutions in another category, which means that it will be able to bathe freely and use it for other purposes. Once again, the importance of the amount of these funds should be highlighted. This is about EUR 36 million to be spent on the ground. So someone's going to be working for those 36 million Euros. Someone's gonna make some money. Someone's gonna pay the tax. The entire local community will benefit greatly from that job. The benefits of pre-accession funds are clear. They allow us to catch up with those we wish to join, which is not only in our interest. Which is in their interest. No one is in the interest of getting Croatia tomorrow, which has completely polluted water. Who has a railroad where you can't drive cars and stuff like that. No one in Europe is interested in this and therefore Europe is willing to invest something, something, and that something here is EUR 26 million of grants to help us rise to that level. These funds, from pre-accession funds in European countries that have recently entered the European Union, have been used in a different percentage. From 15 to 60% of possible funds approved. How many of them will Croatia use is the issue of our organisation? Before and above all, education and ability to design and assemble projects in a manner and procedure that is required by the European Union. There are clear sprinkles. It's no secret. And to carry out these projects the way we wrote it. Namely, it's not enough to make paper. This paper is beautiful and it's all nice, but now we're being followed by a commitment by 2009 to really do it the way it is, as it's written. So this is a major project that, in which the government, local and central and government are involved, has always been able to find consultants, find help. To invite someone from Brussels to help as it was done in this case. We come from small projects from other access funds where even individual farmers, agricultural cooperatives, etc. will be needed. It's not that simple already. These people don't know, and that's the biggest problem. It's gonna take a lot of work. We here most often talk about decentralisation of money and decentralisation of powers but it will take a lot to do in the very near future for the decentralisation of knowledge. To train people and enable them to enter the possibility of using these, the money available to Croatia and its citizens. Not only legal persons, but also citizens, individual agricultural economies, for example, that are listed in that register to design projects that can pass. So we don't get to use those resources that are available less than any other country to us, similar to us. What does it take to design a project like this? I saw it in practice while the project was working. One huge piece of work and a pawn for people who are, I'm not going to say enthusiastic because they're professionals. The people in charge of the job. Certain skills we don't really own. It was shown to us by strangers, consultants who came to tell us how, how and what to do. And certain knowledge that we learn. Which we must collect, too. It's not easy and it's not easy, but there is, who knows? And there are people and institutions who are willing to help us. A major role should be played in the whole business by county development agencies. Unfortunately, our counties haven't worked very hard on that. It seems to me today that development agencies exist all in three counties. I read in the media that other counties are planning to do something like that. Among other things, the carlovack County. It's a necessary step. If, in such a way, a professional team is prepared in the county that will be able to help entrepreneurs and citizens and any living person who needs to be involved in the functioning of development and other projects at the level of future European regions at European Union level. Without it, we will have a good share of the funds available to us today from pre-accession funds, tomorrow from the European Union funds when I enter. A good deal of these funds will remain unused because of our ignorance. So I would take this opportunity to appeal to both state and regional self-government units. So, to the county to work, to do what the Istrian and Varazdin County did, they set up development agencies that would really be functional and that could help on this plan. Thank you again for supporting this project. I count it partly and with my project, and I'm very happy that the City of Karlovac will get the chance to have clean water tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65068	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65069	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. Here I would like to join, of course, in supporting the adoption of this law because it is the truth about the realisation of a large, communal, economic project to be financed from the European Union's funds. By adopting a pre-accession strategy, the European Union adopted it on 6 October 2004. The possibility was created for the Republic of Croatia to use aid from three pre-accession European Union programmes from the PHARE programme in 2005 and 2006. 80m euros, from the ISPA programme during these two years, also 60m euros. The SAPARD 25m-euro programme, and the rest of the 245m-euro programme, and the Secretary of State has also informed us that this amount has been increased by another 7m and that there is a possibility that it will continue to increase if we have quality programmes that we can propose to the European Union that these three European Union programmes are being financed by us. The Republic of Croatia has set up a Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of the National Fund to implement this pre-accession assistance programme, established by the National Fund, appointed by the National ISPA Coordinator, and as I believe we all remember that we have already ratified this Memorandum here in the Croatian Parliament, and has also been accepted by the relevant institutions, i.e. the Commission of the European Union. Here, in collaboration with the competent services of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia has been approved a project entitled “The Water and Waste Water Programme in Karlovac and Karlovac County” which will be financed in part by grants from this ISPA programme. Its importance for the protection of water and water supply has already been widely reflected here by our representative of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, and I would say that this is actually the realisation of the programme that you guys have strategically defined and made long-term development programmes for water protection in the area of the county and water supply, that this is not a financial injection only to the municipal economy and to protect the water, that this is actually a financial injection to all our economy. Because this program of 36 million except maybe a little equipment that will have to be introduced from abroad will mainly realize all Croatian companies and, of course, hire in that part of the project, realising that project and our citizens. Which means water supplies in that part of the carlovia county. It is so difficult for the truth to say in a brief statement, but it is a fragile area where water has only a few springs, i.e. in these 4 rivers that we have already mentioned here and where water must be transported far and far and built quite complex objects. In the realisation of these projects, our only limiting circumstance is that the European Union insists on resolving the issue of this problem. So, water treatment and water supplies for about 100,000 inhabitants, and let's say that we don't have a chance to propose small projects. For this reason, in further realization, programmes should be rounded up as well, and they can be rounded together, let's say how much I know my colleagues from Sibenik County are now preparing a serious project that we need to support under these same criteria to solve the issue and water supply, and also the issue of waste water treatment because it is a problem. There are no rivers but that is why the Adriatic Sea which we also need to protect and contribute to keeping it in its original state. Here, in this project, the resources for the realisation of the project provide a European Union of 22 million and 500 000 euros. The Croatian budget, the state budget of 3 and a half million euros and the City of Karlovac has raised a 10m-euro loan with the European Development Bank. Given that I know people who are working on the implementation of this project, I can point out that the implementation programme prepared for the implementation of this project is very objective, so they are already planning gentlemen in Karlovac for the construction of the facility to be launched in July 2006. The award of the construction contract is planned for 2007, completion of construction in December 2010. As far as this law is concerned, I must point out that our Government, and also the European Union, or the Commission, has accepted the final version of the memorandum on the financing of the project, which has regulated these participations which I have stated in my presentation, as much as under what conditions will participate and by our memorandum on the implementation of this project are in charge of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, the company Vodavod and sewerage as the end-user in the town of Karlovac. Mr. President, I end up pointing out that this is the first project to be funded by the IPS pre-accession programme, and for the realization of this project, the city of Karlovac was even before, in fact the realization of this project began ten years ago. Already ten years ago, it was built several kilometers from the main collector of Duga Resa towards the location of the treatment plant. Thus, the town of Karlovac has quality personnel, with a good company that will know how to run the project. In addition, the realisation of this project will include experts from the Croatian Waters who, with the example of the city of Zagreb, are currently building and working on the creation of a plant for the purification of 180m euros or in Split also the realisation of a large project of an eco-Kaštelan Bay of 125m euros. Therefore, Croatia has quality personnel who have been able to prepare this project and who will be able to prepare other projects. Here, and for this reason, I strongly support the adoption of this law to ratify the memorandum governing relations for the realization of this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65070	Thank you. Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65071	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! My predecessors have practically said a lot or almost everything about this project, its importance and importance, so there's no point in repeating ourselves too much. The fact is that this is an extremely important project for the town of Karlovac and the wider area of the town of Karlovac city of Dugu Resu and belonging settlements and probably the largest, most significant municipal project lately in our area. It is certainly necessary to give recognition to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a job well done because our status, the status of Croatia as a candidate for membership in the European Union has opened pre-accession funds of the European Union, so that the wastewater disposal and water supply project for the city of Karlovac is the first, among the first projects from the ISPA pre-accession fund to be implemented. There should certainly be recognition for the people on the ground who have done a large part of the work at the head of today's mayor, Mr Horvat, and then the director of our city's company Vodavoda and sewerage, because the quality of the work done on the ground here is the result that we are also bringing this memo today. I am as confident as the programme and predicts that these funds will be spent and withdrawn by 2010 until both the deadline and what is certainly the most significant that the town of Karlovac will receive practically 22.5 million euros of grants that will be invested in our area where I believe our construction operation will also be our interest, and what is most important that the town of Karlovac will finally get the clean rivers it deserves, as it once was and which will be able to be used again for swimming, recreation and also water-provided area that is at the very mouth of the Korana River, Kupa River. Here, so short. Thank you very much. And I absolutely support this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65072	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65073	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! Here, my environment says that I don't know if it makes sense for me to say that television isn't going on yet, but since I decided to say a few words, I'm going to say it anyway. In fact, praise is given to this law, or subject, which it handles, by stressing that this is not the beginning. It's a long time ago what Mr. Shirac said has begun but there has always been a shortage of money and thank God that at least the project program it has been processed and here it has satisfied the terms of the European Union and that in this competition to get the grant money or, as we in Dalmatia say, mukta money, it is the most dangerous money for you because they are good if you spend it effectively, but they are very bad if you don't spend it and you have to pay it back, then they have repercussions on everything that comes behind it and as I know it then let us express a little and doubt it all together. I don't know how long ago we talked here about a 300m-euro contract, 150 EIBs and 150 Croatian states accepted that contract without even knowing what projects we were talking about. I remind the assembly that the deadline for this contract is the deadline for the withdrawal of funds at the end of 2008. Experience tells us not to mention now the cities that took not this free money but rather the very favourable loans of the World Bank and European development banks, that we were very inefficient, we concluded contracts on loans that we didn't spend on time and we paid for the engagement of funds and we reduced those amounts of credit but we paid for the engagement of funds so that it was clear to us. So all that was favourable through a favourable interest in the end is the question of how favourable it is. I'm not going to take out the locations on purpose, but the ones concerned know very well where it is. And I am therefore once again warning of the efficiency of the system, in particular I would warn Mrs. Pejcinovic, who, if there is no efficiency of the solution to this problem, will break everything over her head, and it would not be good if everything goes well this way and doesn't end well. In fact, I have to say, the country that entered I don't know, how long ago, 20 years ago, Portugal entered the European Union, in this segment made 80% of the objects in this way, so the pre-accession funds of the European Union, 80% of the wastewater facilities, especially that country, which has practically solved the problem of wastewater for us in a very high percentage. And we are, as you know, still at the level of purification from about 12 to 14% and incomplete purification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65074	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary, Mrs. Marija Buric Pejcinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65075	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's to starting with this last part. It's not money. It is not money because it is co-financing, and it is the European Union in the pre-accession part of the assistance that insists on the part of co-financing so that the state benefiting it shows that the projects that are on its table are important to it and that it will give them great importance. Of course, we appreciate all the concern because the job of implementation is a big deal, we are extremely aware of that. These are major infrastructure projects. We further have the fact here that we have two outside financiers who have some different EBRD rules and the European Commission. They themselves needed some time to reconcile. And that's why, and we haven't yet, we're just here today with these programs. But it's all been going very well so far. I can tell you that we have done the work, so all our colleagues and colleagues in Zagreb and in the field have made it impossible for some. Even on the part of the European Commission and that we have done something that has been truly remarkable, demanding. But that we knew how to do it shows the fact. I can tell you that ever since we started working on this, it's now a year and a half that we have co-ordination for ISPU every week, which doesn't mean we don't work on it every day, but every week the secretary of state in charge of this part of the job meets. Until about a month ago, it was under my jurisdiction. It's now, since it's about the implementation of the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction, so it's a colleague of State Secretary Zigman's. So we're aware it's demanding, but we also know how to do it. As for the part where the projects, as projects come in, were projects that could only take over, that was the only way they could be financed. I can tell you that some good projects have fallen off. And they didn't fall off because they weren't good quality, but they fell off because they either had no preconditions, maybe only one of them, or there was no knowledge that they were preparing themselves in a way that the European Commission would approve them. So, preparation in a way, that's the part of the work done by this government and done by the people who worked on that job here. I could tell you in detail and hours about how much we've been dealing with some projects, but in the end here we've done everything. As for the preparation of the Croatian administration, it seems to me that the greatest emphasis today was on whether we are ready for what the European Commission has put on the table. I can answer you through a few data. So, first, in what we've been doing so far, and that's using the CARDS funds. The European Commission, by means of that criteria, assesses the use of funds at two degrees. It's one thing to negotiate and the other is how to pay. So that's two criteria that were worth it before, so they're worth it now. We are in these criteria for now where this can be measured, at the CARDS level at 97% for 2001 and 2002. This, in the context of the use of European aid, is considered 100 % practical use. Because those few percentages are being scrapped on maybe some larger amount that's scheduled, so eventually something cheaper has been arranged or something else. So in that respect, if it's to judge by this, and I believe it's metric data, we're doing very well. As for the second criterion where we are seen to have done a very good job, the fact that in PHARE in 2005, we received 7m euros up to a total of 71.5 million that we received with these additional 7 in the national component. Believe me, the European Commission would not approve additional money and would not approve additional projects if it were not for the belief that Croatia could use this money. As for further, therefore, how ready we are to show the fact that we are from the first, or our Ministry of Finance first of all, but so are we all in the system, because we have all been through a very demanding process, I would say shooting, reviewing, at the very screening in the sense in which it goes for negotiations. But believe not small amounts and manuals and who answers and who warns whom and who warns whom, etc. We had to make, make, prepare and, of course, the girlsulum of all of us, so from first to last in the process, let it be seen that we can do it well. We've done this job, or this homework, in the first place. And if this was an extremely big job, the fact that this job was for the first time done by new members when they entered, so they didn't have it in pre-accession aid and no one had passed since the first. So, we've been through since the first and since the second month is the responsibility for managing finances, so for this ISPA project has become our hands, of course, and responsibility. It certainly shows confidence in the system. Finally, as the next item of the agenda, you have the Law on a system of implementation of the European Union programme. It is one of the laws that will regulate administrative structures, and that the funds that are now at our disposal and which will come to our advantage in the future. However, a colleague of State Secretary Zigman will speak more about this. As far as the county's preparation is concerned. We've worked extremely hard at the county level. I can only tell you that in the last month I've been in three counties for large lectures. There were 400 people in Šibenik-Kninska, for example, and it was extremely important of all the mayors of municipalities, mayors, etc. So we do and we do it between the resistors, so we are not only going as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, but also all the other resolutions involved. As far as I know, and as far as I can tell, teams are being created. They are sometimes not in the form of the Development Agency, but the teams exist and I believe that we have now come to the stage of maturity and knowledge that what is already on the table is important, and that what is really important is what is coming to us in the next period, especially after entering the European Union. And in conclusion, why pre-accession means are important and why it is important for all of us that this part of the job is certainly a matter of consensus as far as I understand all of us in Croatia, for several reasons. So one thing that we do not have to give from the state budget but to add to it, certainly to show that the administration and the Republic of Croatia are prepared, which is much more important, so this is one kind of learning for what will bring them into the Cohesion Fund and structural funds when we come into membership and certainly one good test that will show that we are harmonising legislation as it is, this example is extremely important because we are harmonising with very important water directives, to achieve the standards needed for membership in the European Union, and certainly to meet everything that is called so-called. the administrative criteria, the criteria of Madrid, which means taking over, therefore, the ability to assume obligations under membership. I believe that this government has shown so far that we are prepared, we know about the challenges, and we will certainly work on this trust that we have received and this effort that we have put forward so far is justified and that, of course, we continue to build our system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65076	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Secondly, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance, agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the Instrument for Pre-accession Structural Policy for the following measure: the programme for water and waste water in Karlovac, for the City of Karlovac, the Karlovak County. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 95 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65079	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives are here in front of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia is before you a proposal for a law on the system of implementation of the European Union programme and a system of implementation of projects financed from loans and gifts from other foreign sources. So what is the importance of this law best says the previous debate on a series, so from a series of MPs we heard and issued warnings about the effectiveness of the implementation system. It is precisely this law that regulates the system of implementation of the European Union programme, and in this case not only of the European Union's programmes, but we have used the moment to sort out the system of implementation of projects financed from loans and gifts from other foreign sources. It should not be ignored that, with the European Union’s grant, Croatia also receives a series of gifts from other credit-related countries and relations with the World Bank. So first of all, this law was made as part of intensive preparations for as effective as possible and as successful as possible the use of all these pre-accession European Union programmes that were recently discussed, so from the CARDS, which points out slowly to the PHARE and ISPA, which were now also referred to by the SAPARD, which were recently referred to in the Assembly for the multiannual financing agreement either the word and future IPA, which is likely to be found very soon in June before the European Parliament. So first of all, the law introduces a system of responsibility and division of tasks among different authorities of the state administration. So in this case not only regarding ministries, agencies, but also for all other levels of government that use pre-accession funds in a specific way through certain projects. So the bill is in some way the result of previous experiences during which, of course, we have seen the need for a clear division of responsibilities as well as of the introduction of all the important terminology from the system partially taken over by international acts into the Croatian legal system. The European Commission's decision of 7 February this year also referred to, so for the first time to the authorities of the State Administration of the Republic of Croatia, the power and responsibility for managing the resources of the PHARE and CARDS has been transferred, and therefore we have started to move to a system of decentralised management, so negotiation, tender documentation, the implementation of the tender does not go exclusively through the delegation of the European Commission, so through the European Commission, rather than through certain procedures, through exchanges, through the regulations of the European Commission, we are given the opportunity to manage these processes ourselves. Therefore, the prerequisite for a successful transition to such a system in which authorities therefore have much greater powers and, of course, the responsibility for the implementation is to establish a clear division of responsibilities and tasks between different bodies. The importance of pre-accession funds therefore consists not only of what is always in the first plan in a certain way, so by means of financial means, so it is of course very important but not most important but also, therefore, part of which is the establishment of administrative capacity. Therefore, developing the administrative capacity of the state administration body, which once the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, will benefit from the European Union's Structural Funds. So the use of these pre-accession programmes today prepares us for full membership in terms of the use of other European Union structural funds and, of course, the important chapter of the negotiations on whether we will receive more EU funds or pay more, so whether we will be net payers or net beneficiaries of these structural funds available by the European Union. Of course, we could have to develop administrative capabilities, we have to be able to absorb these resources. So, at the same time, by cooperating with pre-accession funds, we have decided to regulate this law and the system of management of foreign loans and gifts, for example, international financial institutions such as the World Bank, EBRD, CEB, EIB, etc., and donations related to bilateral gifts from, for example, the Netherlands, Sweden, which have recently been talked about and from which part of the preparations have been said so for the use of these funds very often. This creates, therefore, a unique system of management of all the funds coming into the state budget from foreign sources. What I would also like to mention is, what is important is that this Law introduces the obligation of regular reporting and revision. The national co-ordinator for pre-accession funds, therefore, is now Mrs Buric Pejcinovic, State Secretary, therefore getting a new commitment to regular 6-month reporting by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the state of implementation of all projects financed by the European Union programme. In addition, therefore, the co-ordinator for international loans, which is always Minister of Finance, is also given this Law the obligation to report regularly to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the state of implementation of all projects financed from the funds of international financial institutions. And that very regular reporting in a certain way is, let's say, encouraging and further stimulating, therefore, the bodies of the state administration and further imposing their obligation to deal with these loans carefully. So, that they are not easily received, that they are carefully engaged in gifts and, of course, pre-accession means, so that they are used within the time limit, that they do not remain unused and that, of course, they are raised and capacity in terms of administrative and, of course, in terms of general social benefits, as was the case in this case, the water and drain system in Karlovac. So, what I would also like to say, since the Ministry of Finance is the holder of this Act, the Ministry of Finance has already little hastened this Law in such a way that the Minister of Finance has informed the Government of all loans from the World Bank, EBRD, EIB and CEB and, of course, has contributed to the faster and better use of these funds. Finally, I would just like to say, therefore, and repeat, therefore, that the Ministry of Finance, therefore, as in charge of ISPA programmes and others, but in any case for coordination around ISPA programs, that meetings are held regularly as regards the absorption and use of, say, this water and sewerage system. Therefore, detailed plans are already being made in this respect, i.e. detailed plans for the negotiation and future implementation, in order to ensure, of course, the future use of these funds. What I would also like to highlight in the end, therefore, is proposed to pass the Law by emergency procedure. Therefore, since the law in question establishes a system of implementation of the European Union programme and in this respect its urgency is very important. There you go. So much by the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65080	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HNS Club, Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65081	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is a very important law, and as far as I know, the Law has not caused much interest in representatives of the Croatian Parliament or clubs. And because it's a very important law, that law should still be passed with a little more seriousness than this law in question. The law is passed by emergency procedure. These laws should not be passed by emergency procedure. Everything in this Law has already been set up, so nothing will be lost if we postpone the law for a few months, and the law itself by, therefore, our general position is not sufficiently detailed. A law that could regulate a lot at this level, so the level of legislation, leaves it to a lower level, to regulations, and that's never good. And that, I mean, clearly shows one of our general codes of relations to these European topics. So we declare that we are for Europe, and often we act quite differently. And this law in these two segments, the adoption of laws by emergency procedure and a law that leaves a lot of things, even some principles to lower levels, so regulations, rules, etc., that is not a European way of passing such important laws. And I cannot accept Mr. Secretary of State's argument that this is so urgent because all bodies established under this Act have already been established by the basis of an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on financing, which is the Croatian Parliament, which was in the Croatian Parliament in February this year. So there's no need to rush. What do I think can be better in this law than it is now? First of all, it is the question of Article 13, that some issues will be resolved by a regulation, and I believe that some important questions, and now I will tell you exactly what is going on, should be settled in this Law. And this is the work of preparing and overseeing the implementation of projects under the European Union programme, so it is not 13, I am sorry, but Article 4. The government will pass the regulation. It is, therefore, certain fundamental issues, certain fundamental rules, certain principles, certain procedures, and I believe that these procedures should be listed in this Act, not that the Government adopts these principles, i.e. the basic rules of the procedure. Some issues should be regulated by regulations such as the issue referred to in Article 9, some appointments, regulations concerning concrete projects, but the principles of monitoring and project preparation, I think the basic procedures should be in this Law and I therefore believe that the law is not good in this regard. What is particularly important is the fundamental issues that concern at all our ability and willingness to use the pre-accession European Union funds, and this was not the case here. The report and the promoter, therefore, and the bill proposal, the written bill, but also the proposal report is more bureaucratic. And a few basic questions about what we've done, how much we've been preparing, what we've used up so far from these pre-accession funds, these issues remain open. So I would ask these questions to the secretary of state, hoping that he will be able to answer me, which is whether the Republic of Croatia has developed a national development plan which is the basis for the withdrawal of the European Union programme and the multiannual national rural development programme, or whether our cooperation, i.e. the withdrawal of these projects and these programmes, is based on some temporary agreements which, of course, makes it difficult for us to participate in these projects? Then I'd like to know the answer to the question of what about the PAR program? So yesterday and the day before yesterday, or today and Friday, we saw that the ISPA programme for 2005 and 2006 was more or less used. These two projects that we had on Friday and today, they make up about 50 million kunas, 50 million euros of grants, and we used more than 50 of those two programmes. So here we are on a good path, in a good trend, but the question is, what about the Far program? The PAR programme is still the most significant source of grants to the Republic of Croatia for an annual amount of 80m euros for 2005 and 2006. The Council does not have any information on how much these funds have been used and any occasion for the adoption of such laws must be an opportunity not only to repeat some of the principles of our relationship, but to speak about what we have done in this regard, whether we have adopted national development plans which are the basis for implementation and adoption of such projects and how much in those two years 2005 and 2006, I have no objection to going backwards in 2004, 2003. So, how much was used? The "KARC" program is still an active program. It won't be long. How long has the Republic of Croatia withdrawn funds from this programme in these two or three years? We never, when we have projects like this in the Croatian Parliament, receive such laws without that information, which is the basis, from which we can be known how effective we are, not from repeating some of the principles about what our fundamental relations are, what our ambitions are, etc. Well, that's clear. Otherwise, with these programs, it's not that simple. An example. We had an ISPA programme Friday to co-finance the Vinkovci-Tovarnik-state border railway network. In this project, the European Union participates only 38% and the maximum that can be achieved is 70%. With this project that we just had, we can be satisfied with the project of water supplying Karlovac and water purification. It is 62 and a half percent, but no one here on Friday asked why the European Union's participation in this project of reconstruction of the Tovarnik-Vinkovci-State Border is only 38%? These are important questions. Of course, this is also an important part of the European Union, but these issues need to be discussed. I would like every one of our reports, when we have any acceptance of ratification, of international agreements, that we always have a report on what was accepted in that year and in the last year, which are projects, which is dynamics. The Croatian Parliament has no possibility, if it will not make an effort to reach such a conclusion, that it has regular reports on this. There's no such thing in this law either. This Law states that the Minister of Finance will submit a report to the Government once a year, but there is no word about such important issues, and this is about not knowing a third of the total investment capacity of the Republic of Croatia that any information will be obtained by the Croatian Parliament which, of course, is not good and it is not something that is in line with the highest European standards. When it comes to these programmes, especially this second part, the second part, while the first part is made up of pre-accession funds and European Union programmes and in the future, and the second part is all our credits. This is a much larger amount, there are all our relations with the Council of Europe Development Bank, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, and there is almost complete our investment potential, and we have hardly said anything about it in the law. We just said to establish, that the government would appoint a coordinator and bring the regulation. I don't think it's good that this national co-ordinator is the finance minister because he really isn't. It should be someone who will be like this national coordinator for pre-accession funds, a person who will only deal with it. It's too important a job to be a finance minister because he actually only has a supervisory role to play and of course she needs to stay. I therefore propose that we appoint a national coordinator for all these other programmes, not for a European Union programme that will not be a finance minister but a person appointed as a national coordinator for the European Union programme, and which will therefore deal solely with it, and of course the Minister of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia always remains this supervisory function. I don't think that's a good solution either, but about that credit and gift tracking network, donations aren't that important because there aren't so many of them, but the loans I'm talking about are several times bigger than the European Union programme and pre-accession funds, there's almost nothing here talking about. Only a national coordinator will be appointed and the government will adopt a regulation. Why is the law not also saying that a national certification officer or something similar to the system that we have and is related to European Union programmes, and there is no implementing body of the programme? It's all up to the government. I propose that this structure of monitoring these loans that I repeat is even greater than the loans of the European Union, i.e. these pre-accession funds and other European Union programmes to be approximately the same, or similar to this structure of monitoring the European Union's projects, and that is why I think this law should be in two readings because I repeat it by means of grants, but it is about significant our co-financing and we know what the relationship is, I will agree with my colleague Marasovic, what our relationship is with this. These loans are favourable, they're easy to get, they've got a big payoff, even if it pays intercalary interest which is even worse because the mass is standing, and you don't know 4 or 5 years you've been paying interest and you think you're doing it. You're not doing anything. For the full amount of funds you pay interest. So that's it. And then, of course, the return of those loans happens in five years when those who decide about it won't be there anymore, and that's a very dangerous thing. And these loans are often used badly because they are very favourable at first sight and because I say the burden of the financial state comes only in a few years and then we will probably not be on those duties or will forget what we have done. That is why it is important that this mechanism is constantly monitored through these bodies that we will establish through this law, through the Government of the Republic of Croatia but I am also safe through the Croatian Parliament. For example, let us return to this European Union project. In addition to our participation in this project when we talked about the railway line, renovate the Tovarnik-Vinkovci over 60%. This very high participation of the Republic of Croatia, there go operating costs, exchange rates, bank costs, everything goes to the burden of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore a very significant asset. And I repeat, here's a fundamental point of view. The Croatian People's Party will, of course, support this law. This law is an important law, this law is required by law, but we believe that this law would be better and it is necessary for these laws to be maximumly good, that the law went into two readings and that there are more details and more roles of the Croatian Parliament than in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65082	Thank you. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65083	Mr. President, secretary, colleague and colleague! I would like to present a few arguments on behalf of the HDZ Club why we support this law and why we support it by an urgent procedure. Namely, here are the previous two points last week and this week, and that is how every debate on relations between Croatia and the European Community and the Commission later raises certain doubts. We can ask why. Well, I think it's because they selectively choose what suits us. Eventually, we shut up or it's a routine process and what doesn't suit us from these contracts and agreements becomes a problem as if we've never met him. And that is why today's adoption of this law, I want to remind myself of a few facts and obligations that we have accepted so far but that we will have to accept in future whether or not we like them because often times and well they wear sometimes something that doesn't suit us at a given time, and so, even now, possibly speaking about some financial relations. I therefore recall that the SAA was signed long ago in 2001, that it came into force in 2005, that it defined mostly most of the relations, rights and obligations of the European Commission and the Croatian State and government. I also remind chronologically, in a manner that in 2002 an agreement was signed between the Croatian Government and the European Commission, from which the framework agreement then produced annual agreements each year that resolved relations mainly in the CARDS programme and some other programmes that were then available or possible in use in that time. Therefore, it stands. Of course, each government, both this and every future, yearly, yearly or at the end of the year, should have been given the most appropriate reports and information, of course, and discussions on the use of these funds that have been used per year, because they have been programmed by age. Also, in 2003, a memorandum was signed on the establishment of a joint central unit within the Ministry of Finance, which was to gradually assume decentralised functions. I remember then the nervousness of why Europe prescribes competitions, and supervision, and implementation and everything else. Here is a reason why we went one step at a time and that we finally agreed on common trust, so to speak in our strength that we can carry out one part of these agreements or agreements on our own. Equally, in 2007 there is a possible chance, the possibility will depend on us and create a new IPA pre-accession programme that would then replace these programmes both by process and by amount which would be significant for Croatia in future times and prepare us for entry into the European Community. The following 2004 is a pre-accession strategy that provides that these programmes of the current PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD are to be used by the end of this year and probably create an opportunity to form and define ourselves in a new way next year. In 2005 the Croatian government and the European Commission signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the formation of a national fund again a step further in confidence in the Croatian forces and this framework also defines the conditions and way of functioning of the national fund. Now, I would say in principle that so far we have somehow used our strengths, brains and knowledge ad hoc depending on the program, depending on the year and depending on the purpose of these funds that would be used. And now, for the first time, we need to create a legal framework in which we would then define the way and conditions of use of funds towards the European Commission and other sources that Croatia will use in any case and when it enters the European Community. We are therefore discussing today a law that needs to create new conditions and a presumption of more effective use of the funds from preparation to the end of the reporting process. Now this law creates an assumption that permanent teams are created that will continue to function, which will not depend on the programme, on the year or possibly on the purpose of the funds. In this way, we will use both foreign and private knowledge to be more efficient and to give us the chance to make more rational use of those resources. Finally, the question is raised, and it was the last time on the board, so it seems to me sometimes that there are still some ambiguities right on the route between Croatia and the European Commission, as can be entered into those programmes. I don't want to talk about it on the occasion of this law today. They'll talk about it in other places. But the public should also be reminded, as well as those individuals, that Croatia should not only bring a strategy based on which it will then withdraw funds but that it is long ago that every county and the city also needed its development and operational programme based on which these projects will be nominated or run throughout Croatia and agreed. Of course, it was already necessary to agree with the Croatian Government, but also with the representatives of the European Commission immediately and immediately: "And what will our consultants do?" So precisely because they participated or participated in all those who wanted to bring these programmes so that the programmes were already agreed in advance and that they can now, after the adoption of this Act, be eligible for the practical use of funds either by these sources or other sources. For this reason, the development agencies that are envisaged and in the counties need to speed up their formation and prepare as quickly as possible so that we can use more effective means offered under conditions of course that most often we cannot dictate. Here are all the reasons why HDZ proposes to adopt this Law and to adopt it by an urgent procedure although it could be adopted in a second reading, but we think there is no obstacle to being brought with full faith even now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65084	Thank you. It's an HSLS rep club. Dear Representative Ivan Chehok, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65085	Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Instead of a rough debate in the Croatian public, you should have placed yourself in Eurofil camps or in Eurosceptics camps. Here's a law that warns us that we could have been Euro-mans with that a long time ago. Not in this sense, in order to manically adhere to one or the other option, to one or another camp, but simply to use the euro money or European money. Unfortunately, Croatia has been discussing too long and too far what Europe is bringing us. Too little or almost does not use all those opportunities of European funds, European programmes, implementation of European programmes and financial assistance that we could have used before we became a candidate country, especially since we became a candidate country. On the one hand, we're a country that's under-invested. We are a country where there is little investment in economic growth, so we can say in other elements of social development such as social cohesion or some other elements. And it's really strange that a country that's so underinvested, that doesn't use its financial capacities. It has financial capacity for larger investments. On the other hand, it has thus far failed to raise the capacity of the administration or has no capacity for the administration to start using financial resources. This disproportion, this disproportionateness between the financial capacities that are empty and which can be used and the administrative capacities that are practically filled with self-requirement and do nothing or do too little about using these funds, is also the reason why we have so far participated in this debate. We expect to integrate or enter Europe in a physical or other sense only in 2009 instead of using these funds effectively as all those who have waited for entry and who have been in long-term integration processes. I mention this because it is clear that countries far better prepared than we have, such as Slovenia and Hungary and which have started to use earlier pre-accession funds have managed to use on many projects barely 30% or 35% of the total resources offered to them or from the total funds that they could benefit from in line with the approved projects of the European Union. So barely 30, 35%, even though they've raised the administration's capacity in time. Although in time they formed all the bodies needed according to the memos and although they actually had dimensional projects so that in the administrative sense, Europe could accept them. So barely 30, 35 percent. Croatia is afraid with this preparation, with this delay will benefit even less. So a well-invested environment, a state. On the other hand, funds that can be used and which, besides these two honorable exceptions and some cities, can mention the example of Varazdin used by the "Cards" before, so some of the environments used, but very, very little. So we have only now, although we signed this memorandum with the European Commission already in 2005 only now are we having a practical debate and again in an urgent procedure, I see no reason why such a bill has not been presented to us before. Again in the urgent process, we are discussing the implementation of projects financed and loans of gifts, i.e. the formation of the National Fund. Of course, as Representatives' Club, we'll support the foundation of such a single fund. Of course, we think it's an important law, but I repeat again, we think we could have used those funds a long time ago. In order to do so in some way, it will also show our willingness, our capacity from legislation to if you want financial, implementing, operational, organisational. Whatever else we start using the European Union's funds and going in some way to meet integrations instead of waiting for them buried in ourselves and in our wild debates. What I'm afraid we won't succeed no matter what we pass this law and what the National Fund won't succeed in doing is removing or reducing, reducing those weaknesses that we've already been able to detect and that have actually prevented us from using funds. First of all, the fact that unfortunately we often have "ad hoc" formed bodies. That these bodies are completely ineffective. That we have not popularized or explained to the public what we can actually use the funds for? Our average citizens, and I would say a good part of the local self-government units across Croatia know nothing about it or knows very little. Bad cooperation between designated bodies and users. Inconsistencies in action between mostly foreign consultants of the body and users. Not to mention the fact that unfortunately, starting both from, and from senior state officials, I'm not talking about local self-government. People don't know our languages, so then of course with foreign consultants they can't cooperate, they can't communicate. Indefinitely defined indicators of the success of the implementation of the project. And those projects that we may have so far been able to have and use, so these performance indicators, the evaluations are completely unclear. There's no telling who's setting them up or who's watching them. A delay in project implementation. Problems in ensuring conditions for the work of consultant teams and so on. Which, of course, brings back the fact that most of the funds we have used so far have just gone to preparations and administrations rather than to implement that administration implements projects. Therefore, it seems to me that regardless of this, we will not be able to do what will be done effectively to the National Fund itself and I would say transparent implementation of the projects. What particularly bothers me or that I would somehow recommend that we all try together, although it is an emergency procedure to ensure is more effective, better and I would say more synergy cooperation between the units of local self-government and government. The National Fund means meeting obligations. The funds will go through him. However, the experience of all countries mainly those who used the most funds. There are, for example, world champions of Portuguese or Irish who have used far more resources than our nearest Slovenians and Hungarians, which we may often take as an example. The funds were used there exclusively because projects and programmes had since the beginning of the regional dimension. So, regionally dimensioned. In a state that is completely feudal, such as Croatia, in which every municipality in some way has an empire for itself, in which municipalities do not cooperate or cooperate hard, in which cities and municipalities have a hard time cooperating, in which the districts or units of local self-government work hard, in which each other's counties do not cooperate, in which the central state government almost cooperates, or in most cases, projects are in a manner of constant discussion between the central government and the county and the unit of local self-government. In such a feudally structured state with our mentalities that we are just looking at our end, or our narrow environment, and with our atavims and local patriotism again, I am afraid, and of course, under investment as far as regional projects are concerned, I'm afraid that we will not be able to use these funds. I don't see here except, of course, in the concept of the law itself, but I don't see here how this unit of local self-government will be permanently, firmly communicational and organisationally connected to the National Fund, or all the other bodies. We all know, those who don't know that, that should be said to the citizens of the European Union right now favouring and more supporting projects that are regionally dimensioned, not at the county level, because our counties are too small but just at the level of the region and so I think it would be a good thing that we also certified regional development agencies as soon as possible. I can testify about the example of the City of Bjelovar, Virovitica, Koprivnica, Međimurje and Varazdin, who made the first in Croatia an inter-ouragency agency to operate exactly regional projects. So not just one city and one county focused but among the county. So we see how much difficulty there is. I'm afraid without those among the county, over the county bodies in preparation, we won't achieve much in the implementation applications. And what I would also like to say is that, as a Club, we would still like the Parliament to have greater control, above all, in the selection of consultants, or coordinators. I think that would be much better because it is something that in some way in the public should be presented as a role for all of us, and in some ways also as a coordinator covering all Croatian citizens and I think it would be better for this to be decided by this representative and legislative body as a sort of representative of the will of all citizens and that maybe we give the Government the opportunity to propose it and that the Croatian Parliament therefore decides. In this way, we would all show that the European Union projects, the implementation of these programmes depends and in some ways we give management to all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65086	Thank you. Final review of Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65087	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So here's after a few discussions I'd just look back on a few points that were discussed. On several occasions, it was said, and the detail of the law was mentioned. The detail of the law did not go so far for the simple reason that Croatia is in a very specific situation related to pre-accession programmes and pre-accession funds. First of all, for the reason that Croatia is a country that will find itself in three systems to implement pre-accession programmes. So, first of all, it's about the CARDS. On the other hand, we had to be accredited, we accredited for PHARE and ISPU and now for SAPARD. And what will then come to us, as I said before Parliament, the European Parliament will find a system of pre-accession IPA instruments in June. We're gonna have to credentials for the IPU. So in a certain way Croatia is in a very specific situation. So, a series of programmes that will be, which will result in a series of provisions, a regulation that will result from this IPE system cannot, unfortunately, be known in advance. And therefore, part of the one who has been highlighted regarding Article 4 and in this law is proposed to the respected House to allow the Government to arrange it. About the urgency of the procedure. So the urgency of the procedure is precisely based on the fact that for the CARDS in 4 years, so from 2002 to 2005, I apologize to 2001 for the total value of 262m euros, and now in just two years for PHARE, ISPU and SAPARD we have 245m euros. Therefore, over a very short period of time, the number of units that must absorb these funds is increasing. These funds are increasing, responsibility is increasing, and in this sense it is very important for this law to start working as soon as possible, to make its application as quickly as possible. Regarding the fact that the overall potential and all these international loans that Croatia receives from the World Bank, the EBRD, the IBRD, the EIB, the CEB are in a certain way not under the authority of this respected House. I must also remind myself, therefore, that each loan is considered an international contract. International contracts come to ratification in this respected House, and therefore here in this House they are discussed very closely. And also, all these laws, I apologize, so all these contracts and their entire implementation are in the budget every year. So, on the dissipating side of the budget, every item, every credit that comes from the EIB, the EBRD and the IBRD. CEBs, etc. is located on the bulky side of the budget. Each major capital activity is as an item in the budget and, of course, it is at a disposition and at a debate in this esteemed House. Here, just so much from me. I thank the distinguished MPs for their comments. Bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65088	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Secondly, the Final Proposal of the Law on the implementation system of the European Union programme and the implementation system of projects financed from loans and gifts and from other foreign sources. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 93 votes for and 1 abstention. With that majority, this law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65091	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. You are presented with a proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal. This is a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia which should address the issues of procedures and dealings with citizens of the signatories of this Agreement, i.e. third-country nationals, nationals staying illegally or illegally in the area of one of the signatories of this Agreement. In fact, illegal and illegal immigration is becoming increasingly intense and becoming a growing problem. In particular, this problem is expressed in the so-called so-called. The Balkan route through which many goods are being smuggled, but lately there has been an increasing and more pronounced trend and smuggling, or trafficking in human beings as one of the forms of illegal or illegal migration. Therefore, the signing of this agreement is important, i.e. the ratification of this agreement, because it will also be subject to the legal procedure in dealing with citizens of the signatories of this Agreement, i.e. third-country nationals who are found in the illegal residence of one of these two countries. Otherwise, the Republic of Croatia is achieving better results in preventing illegal immigration and illegal entry into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Because the Republic of Croatia needs to be a priority for more effective control and control of its own borders and, above all, its own borders towards those countries where illegal and illegal migrations come from. The figures themselves best confirm that on the one hand we have an ever-increasing, increasing frequency, the intensity of such illegal immigration, but the Croatian border police are also increasingly more effective and efficient in curbing and finding and catching illegal migrants. Thus, a thousand 740 foreign citizens who were from the Republic of Croatia tried illegally to move to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 towards the Republic of Slovenia. And the Republic of Slovenia returned a thousand 827 to us in the majority of foreign citizens who found themselves in an illegal residence in Slovenia, and entered Slovenia from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. For the first three months of this year we have 418 persons found by the Croatian Border Police, i.e. the Republic of Croatia accepted 458 foreign nationals who entered the Republic of Slovenia illegally from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But what is much more important is that the Croatian police, or Croatian border police, are far more effective in preventing illegal migrants from entering the European Union most often through that Balkan route. So at the border towards Serbia-Montenegro for 2005, we had 2,000 767 foreign citizens illegally trying to enter the Republic of Croatia. And for the first three months of this year alone, we have 4000 531 people we caught trying to illegally enter the Republic of Croatia. All of this best says that Croatian border police are increasingly adopting Schengen criteria, that it is becoming more effective and that Croatian border police are increasingly effective in protecting both Croatian borders and Croatian state territory, and especially in this way preventing illegal migration flows from other countries via Croatia to Slovenia in this case, but also in the countries of the European Union. I propose on behalf of the ministry that this law be passed by emergency procedure, because it cannot be changed anymore, or the agreement cannot be changed anymore. And by doing so, we will get a legal act that will regulate this matter and we will be able to deal more effectively with the competent authorities and authorities of the Republic of Slovenia in treating illegal migrants who are growing more and more daily in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65092	Thank you. Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65093	At the 67th session held on 16 May 2006, Mr President-in-Office of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal with the Final Proposal for a Law which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Committee are familiar with the reasons and interests of the Republic of Croatia for which it is proposed to adopt the law in question by emergency procedure. The applicant's representative states that the objective of this Agreement is to regulate the issue of surrender to the acceptance of its own nationals as well as of third-country nationals whose entry or stay is illegal in the territory of the State of the other Contracting Party. The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and does not object to the proposal to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, assessing that it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the Committee believes that this agreement will deepen the relationship and co-operation of the two countries in the fight against illegal migration. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65094	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65095	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here's the whole time if I can express myself since 93th, then there's a warm-cold policy going on here between Croatia and Slovenia. However, we will all also agree that this law, which bears the title of confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is unlawfully beneficial. This law is also needed regardless of what is understandable, Croatia is in a position to take on thousands and thousands of fugitives, emigrants who are fleeing through Croatia to Slovenia, or trying to reach Western Europe. It is a pity that we have not somehow received the numbers of these illegal crossings per year, but only from these data provided by Mr Buconjic, it is evident that thousands and thousands of people who illegally cross Croatian borders, i.e. in a specific case the Croatian-Slovenian border, although these data that our sub-strates are incomparably smaller than such defects, i.e. crossing the borders of illegals that took place in the late 1990s and early 2000s respectively. Then, on one side of the border line, it was known to be stopped by tens of thousands of these unfortunate people. Mr. Secretary of State gave information from 2005, that the Croatian government stopped at the 1740 Croatian-Slovenian border and that Slovenia returned to Croatia in 1827. For the rights of three months of 2006 it looks about like this. That Croatia has stopped about 418 migrants, means these illegal crossings, and Slovenia has returned 458 of these unfortunate people to us. In any event, the key articles are this Article 2, each Contracting Party, at the request of the other Contracting Party, will accept to its territory a third-country national or a stateless person who does not fulfil or no longer fulfil the conditions of entry or stay, etc. not to quote all, or Article 5 which clearly speaks between the lines and the need to establish asylum in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that the same agreements the Republic of Croatia has with our neighbours above all here I mean Hungary, Italy. Some of these agreements are understandablely taken over from ex-Yogoslavia, and if we do not have such agreements with neighbours in the east, I mean Serbia, or Montenegro, on Sunday, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, such arrangements should also be translated into legal texts. Because right from Serbia-Montenegro today, that is, Bosnia and Herzegovina, these unhappy people are coming to Croatia. That the entry from these borders is incomparably greater than crossing the Croatian-Slovenian border is witnessing and this information by Mr Buconjic said that 2767 people were stopped at the Croatian-Serbian-Montenegro border in 2005 and in 2006 even if I wrote that data correctly 4531, it seems to me to be that number. On the other hand, it was certainly good for other Croatian-Slovenian open issues to be resolved in one way or another. It would certainly be wise for Croatian and Slovenian companies to perform together in third markets, if Slovenian companies were more present in Croatia but also vice versa, Croatia in Slovenia. However, I doubt open border issues will be resolved so soon, and it will be equally difficult to resolve the demand for Croatian savings against the Ljubljanska Banka and also in the context of this fact that the Belgian KBC or KSF left Ljubljana with 35% of the stake in the bank. These issues mean borderline, and living along that border, I feel that it should be frozen for a future time, and before that, there is a way for Joras to stop aided by clearly Slovenian policy to provoke relations along the border. He came from around Maribor, I don't know, back in the '70s, and he hasn't given us peace in the last 10 years, and I suggest that someone from the Croatian state try to buy out his house for which he was given a note of construction license in the Bujams in the 1980s, and that in the '90s he was also running property disputes in front of that same court in Bujam. If the public on the other hand didn't give him that kind of attention, he'd probably be forgotten. I'm saying it in the context of this law. I am particularly pleased to see this intensity of stopping people in Croatia and Serbia, or the Bosnian-Herzegovina border, so that they can send a message that Mr. Secretary of State has also made that Schengen acts de facto in Croatia and that our neighbours can a little lessen the Schengen regime towards Croatia. It is clear that this Yoras cannot be subdued under the terms of this convention because in the 1970s, in the 1980s, he bought a house in Plovana, there it is for God's sake, and clearly that he does not have an illegal stay. But I want to say if the prime ministers play football together, then let Janša take advantage of her authority and influence Mr. Joras to stop provoking these Croatian-Slovenian relations. Otherwise, the relationship between the indigenous population is more than harmonious and only an outside incentive can be questioned, but if possible disputes are not left out of the media then life along the border will be more than tolerated. Here is so much about this agreement with an emphasis that the open Croatian-Slovenian issues are being overcome. God forbid there's an arbitration, but for her, she needs both sides' consent. It's probably not going to happen that soon, and on the other hand, the one that loses the dispute, I guess, will create a problem before all of this space. In one word, this agreement should be supported. It is also useful if the Republic of Croatia does not have similar arrangements with other neighbours, we need to resolve this relationship with both Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because from these countries the largest number of migrants and comes to the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65096	Thank you. The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65097	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian People's Party Club will certainly support the Proposal for this Law because we must ratify an agreement that has been signed since last summer and has waited a little longer for ratification in our Parliament. I don't know if the Slovenian Parliament has already ratified it, and its application will wait a little while longer until the notes of ratification are exchanged after ratification. However, what I have reported for the debate is an essential issue that I refer to the secretary of state as a representative of the government. Is Croatia ready, Croatian authorities, to implement this Agreement to apply it after its entry into force and application? Is it, therefore, that I am asking the Government's representative, the Secretary of State whether the authorities of the Republic of Croatia are qualified as personnel, materially and financially to implement this Agreement until the end? To immediately best dilemmas, to act in a way that only takes from Europe what suits us and what doesn't. I remind you that geographically Croatia is in such a position that we are and we will remain on the course of illegal migration. Whether that political migration, whether it be social, was a slave trade, the trafficking of women for prostitution in Western Europe. We cannot escape from our position, unfortunately. And the fact is that this is why Croatia's territory and borders are not only used by these poor, therefore, illegal migrants, especially social ones, but that business trade is more profitable today than drug trafficking. The fact is that the Croatian judiciary and police have been struggling with this problem for years and we haven't come very far. And the fact is that many of the affairs and the judicial ones were on the subject, that persons convicted in Slovenia, organized chains of human trafficking across Croatia and Slovenia, enjoyed the full freedom and protection of someone else's work. Until he ran into himself, so he crossed the border, and they finally solved the problem with the help of the Italians. Nothing in that part has changed. When we talk about social migrants, I understand that. However, is it enough just to monitor the state border to implement this Agreement? I warn of the provision of Article 2 which obliges both sides to receive third-country nationals if it is proved that they have crossed the border from our territory or their territory. What does it look like to you in practice? I am not making it up, I was talking, and they told me that in a group of 50 people that Slovenians find in their territory, it is enough to say that they found in the pocket of one of them a tram map of Zagreb's ZET or a bus ticket on the line Donja Dubrava-Cakovec. And that's proof for the other side that he's looking for an emergency procedure, a brief procedure, a shortened procedure to take over the group from the Croatian side, and we have to take them. In preparation for the debate, and therefore reminding me that the same situation, the border towards the European Union, we have a border with Italy at sea and with the Republic of Hungary, a member of the European Union, where about the same regime will be valid or is already in place. I was thinking of criticizing, now I'm easing criticism, which this bill doesn't follow any data. Look at the reasoning of the Law, there is no single information in 2005, 6th, 4th, 99th, any, why this Agreement was necessary with Slovenia at all. Mr. Secretary of State said it was 2005. Croatian police caught, arrested a thousand 747 illegal migrants at the border with Slovenia and that Slovenians returned to us that same year a thousand 827. So they discovered them more than we did, they gave them back more to us than we caught them on our side on time. In the first 3 months of this year, our police caught them 418, and the Slovenians returned 458. More and more. The first three months, what's the trend? The data doesn't encourage me, at least not as the secretary of state said, because the trend of comparison throughout 2005 and the first 3 months of this year is about the same. There's no reduction in illegal migration. It's about the same data on illegal migrants. When this border with Slovenia is at stake. As for the 2005 data, at the border with Serbia 2 000 767 and in the first 3 months of this year 4000 531. Caught by us. How many returned to Serbia from these 4000 531? How much did we prove here that they came from the territory of that state and returned it to them? And what about the data on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory where we have a far longer border? Where is border surveillance far more difficult, expensive, demanding technical and human, material, financially? So, how much is there? And suppose there is about the same figure as in the Serbia-Montenegro area. In the first 3 months on the Slovenian border 900, on the Serbian 4 and a half, so much for Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's 10,000 times four times four. This is the data for the first three months. That's about 40 grand. Taking care of illegal immigrants is expensive, costing the country's taxpayers an awful lot. Whether it's a day, two, three or ten, it costs at the border, technical human resources and costs when they're arrested and placed somewhere, and it's paid by the taxpayers of this country, and therefore it's in the national interest that the entry into Croatia is as small as possible and we need to focus on our eastern borders to prevent these costs because when they are on the western borders, these data prove to us that the Slovenians are returning to us than we have found again on our burden and their acceptance and their subsequent transfer if we prove from which country they came to those third countries from whose territory they entered Croatia. So, with regrets and references to the appeal that, in future, in the context of the law, we get this kind of information to see the seriousness of and in the number of people whose fates are often tragic where entire families suffer, in the seriousness of the criminal acts that they commit, as well as Croatian citizens who are the organizers of this chain of smuggling to people, where billions of kunas turn annually. That's why it's always supposed to be getting that information. I appeal to the Secretary of State that the future information is not in the opening statement but in the opening statement of the law, not for this speaker, because the data obviously have the following proposal. This agreement addresses the issue of our obligations with Slovenia and vice versa. By the same model, the same principle would be extremely important and important for us to agree the same regime, the same regime with our neighbours and Hungarians, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and hopefully from Sunday and Montenegro, because otherwise we will be... Yes... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The northern borders have a strict regime of great obligations, but not on the other hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our diplomacy, our government is on the move that what we have at our western borders towards the European Union must now begin bilateral negotiations that we have as soon as possible and at our borders where this problem comes from. There is no assessment of the necessary funds, and the secretary of state nothing... He said whether the MUP needs additional technical equipment, new people, located capacities of illegal immigrants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Remember the problem with where they'll be until we transport them to some third countries? What's the situation here, because if I've calculated correctly according to the data for the first three months, we're talking about the numbers of about 40,000 people a year. The agreement can't be changed, we confirm it, we ratify it to go into further procedure, but the topic is extremely serious, so for the second time I ask for a more serious explanation, an initiative that we try to give this model from the western borders to our eastern and southern borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65098	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65099	Thank you very much. Well, it's actually that we and the Republic of Slovenia already have a signed and ratified readmission agreement as well as with all our neighbours, with the fact that only as far as I know in Serbia-Montenegro for at least a year and a half, until a year and a half ago, it was not ratified, and therefore, given that in the first three months, growth was 35%.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65100	I'm a colleague of Luchin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65101	I'll say it, I'll say it, in the end. I can finally tell you what I'm correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65102	Now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65103	It's my turn now. Then here, I'll stay on my feet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65104	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65105	Thank you very much. So, since growth in the first three months of illegal crossings is 35% across the Slovenian border, it shows that parts of the state that need to take care of it are still functioning. Now to what extent, we can talk about it. Otherwise, when it comes to this type of agreement and the bill that such agreements are confirmed rarely discussed. Why? Because they, as it is said here, refer to the illegal stays of citizens and citizens of countries who signed the agreement as well as third countries that use the transit of those countries to come to one of the signatories. From that I think that no one actually has anything against it and that we all clearly need such agreements on that and on that. So, the Croatian state has signed agreements with most European countries, neighbouring countries, and I think that, to some extent, this is not just a dead letter on paper, but especially when the word towards the west is working all together. What is known in these agreements and what they are known for is that there are several generations of these agreements. So already today, Europe is talking about third generation readmission contracts. Now my question is, I'm gonna take that opportunity to ask, and that's why I've mostly answered. I don't understand why a reading contract was signed with Slovenia, which I tried very hard to find qualitatively important reasons for not finding them. Therefore, it seems to me, in fact, that it was only the reason why the two ministers elected in Slovenia and Croatia would find themselves and sign it all together, because as far as I understand it, and I think I understand it well in this agreement, there is no new quality, no quality. Let's just say that there is no mention of the possibility of asylum anywhere, because Croatia has the possibility of people calling for asylum, and in Slovenia it also exists. What seems very important to me is that no techniques have been worked out to determine whether someone from a third country has come through one of the signatories to another of the signatories. It is true that the bus and tram tickets may be evidence, but it is known that the organisers of these illegal migrations actually share in some further eastern country that I do not appoint them, share those tram tickets. Why? Because it's in their interest to get them back as close as possible... So that's a new quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The new quality is that the previously signed agreement between Croatia and Slovenia did not anti-cipe that Slovenia would be on the other side of Schengen, and Croatia with this and now I personally expected that it would actually be recorded in a certain way in this agreement, but it is not seen again. We'll have one big problem. And what's the problem? Especially the following year when Bulgarians and Romanians enter the European Union for a simple reason because illegal migrants are not targeted only by members of the European Union, they aim at old members of the European Union where the standard is higher, where they live better than I do not know in Poland, Romania, Slovenia etc. This illegal migration will continue to go through Croatia. And so I don't understand why these facts aren't taken into account when there's sprawling, so-called. That third generation... contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I expected would be indicated through at least one article in a certain way about the issues surrounding borders. My question is whether this agreement applies to Slovenian fishermen, whether when Croatian police or a seaman catches him outside of that summer regime, they catch a seaman in the summer regime or any age of a fisherman, whether he is being detained as illegal, so as he who is illegally staying on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and is extradited by Slovenia or by something else under this contract. Maybe that's actually those questions that we should have talked about. So it's true that this can't be changed but it's also true that this doesn't have to be ratified and confirmed, so before we have an agreement that, as far as I can tell, it's not really different than this. So, since we have a first generation reading contract with the Hungarians too. I hope that almost there will be signing but not another generation but this third generation that already takes the fact for granted that Hungary is in the European Union and that we actually have Schengen at the border of our country with Hungary or our country with Slovenia because it is actually very important and it is actually the whole essence of these readmission agreements. I'm not going to look back at this eastern side that's important and there we know how hard this return is going, how hard this whole procedure is actually going. It's really important for us to focus on the Shengen question. Because it's simply as much as I manage to agree here or I don't know how to convince each other that yet Schengen doesn't apply to other countries or to the first countries, but only to the third, it's quite different in practice. And what I think should be indicated here anyway, says there won't be any extra funding. I would like that to be so, because if there is no need for additional funds for this agreement then this means that the Croatian government predicts that there will be no growth in the next period of illegal migrants, which by that and how the route of movement of these illegal migrations, at least as far as I monitor and as far as I can see, cannot possibly be assumed. It is precisely for this agreement and for an agreement with Hungary that will require very significant and additional resources. So the question is mine. Can you briefly explain to me what the difference between yesterday and yesterday and the agreement signed with Slovenia is because I couldn't see it and I don't really understand why both energy and time were being spent, and taxpayers' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65106	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65107	Thank you very much. This law has developed a very interesting debate since it is obviously a problem of interest to the Croatian particularly political public. And I'm just going to say about a few of these questions that were asked here, I'm going to try to give an answer. In fact, it is evident that illegal migrants towards Slovenia and their return from Slovenia to Croatia have not been increased, I don't know if Mr Lesar or Cain, around last year's level, set it up. For the first three months and last year it's about that level. However, what I think is very encouraging is that we have managed to significantly increase the efficiency of border police work at the entry borders in Croatia, this border towards Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro, where we have almost twice as much to find illegal migrants over the first three months of last year. It is clear from all this that Croatia is a transit area. Of these illegal migrants who have either been caught trying to cross the state border illegally or have been returned from Slovenia to Croatian citizens only when they are the organizers of chains or when it comes to illegal smuggling of goods. It is clear that for these reasons for which citizens of other eastern countries illegally migrate towards Slovenia, Croatian citizens do not do and do not. So, the citizens are mostly Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania, some Turks and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why we are fully aware that, as a transit country, we will actually do the most in curbing these illegal migrations if we protect the entry borders and if we are able to prevent as many of these illegal migrations and suppress them at these entry borders or borders with Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here we are making great efforts and it was a question of whether this trend of increasing illegal migrants would be possible to continue to combat, since they needed additional funding. The Croatian Government or the Ministry of Interior in its budget provided increased funds through the approval of funds for the implementation of Croatian border police or border services, and through the increase in the number of employees and through the purchase of new state-of-the-art equipment, so that during last year and here a few days ago, the minister also signed an agreement with the Germans on the purchase of several thermovisions. So we are also working on modernising equipment, increasing the number of border police officers and getting those equipment that has been shown in all countries as the most effective in curbing illegal migration, so we have already been in advance in the budget to counter this increase in illegal migration and through certain items in the budget we have provided funds for border police action, but also for those costs that will be incurred due to the acceptance of illegal migrants and their return to the countries of origin. So we are fully aware that this issue is very important and that it will also reflect on the position of Croatian citizens, what I think Mr. Cain said, and reiterated by Mr. Lesar that Croatia will be more effective in preventing illegal migrations that are transitably entering the European Union, so that Croatian citizens will certainly have a softer and lighter treatment when entering the European Union. And it is certainly our goal to establish such a situation where Croatia will be recognised as a country that successfully and effectively combats illegal migrations so that our citizens do not have problems entering the European Union either via Hungary or through the Republic of Slovenia. So here's the conclusion that we're aware of this problem. I would just like to say that we are also aware that these agreements are just one of the elements of the common migration policy and other security policy. We must also look to the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Asylum, since these two laws are the same in close connection with this issue. The Croatian Government, or the Ministry of Interior, is preparing changes in these laws as well. So in the Law on Asylum and the Law on Foreigners, where we will also ask some of the questions that you have raised here and opened in a way that, together with other regulations, Croatia is even more effectively struggling with these problems of illegal migration. I'd still just like to thank... really in good, constructive debates and we will try to safely inform the public about these issues that you have asked and I agree, will we try to prepare future and materials in a way that can be monitored over a period of years as trends in these areas move? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How effective or inefficient the Croatian police are so that they can really see where all these issues are going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65108	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 91 votes for and 4 abstentions passed by the proposed Law. ... Opposite, four against yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65111	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say this briefly. I believe that the role of the World Health Organization should not be specifically spoken or stressed, however, it should always be legitimate to take advantage of the occasion and emphasize that we have been active since the founding of the World Health Organization in collaboration with this respected organisation. It is very likely for all to know that one of the founders and chairmans of the founding assembly of the World Health Organization is our Professor Andrija Stampar who personally ensured the start of quality cooperation with the World Health Organization in the field of public health. The creation of an independent and sovereign Croatian state on 11 June 1992, the Republic of Croatia became a member of the World Health Organization and the same year in October was established the Office of World Health in the Republic of Croatia as well as a designated liaison officer. Active cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the World Health Organization is seen primarily through the participation of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the creation of health policy, especially in the regional organisation for Europe, but in all projects and activities it is aimed at protecting and health, improving health and citizens. The rise in dynamics and intensification of cooperation has forced the need to establish and formal law through legal regulation of the status of the World Health Organization in the Republic of Croatia, legal regulation of the status of the Office of the World Health Organization in the Republic of Croatia, legal framework for the cooperation of the World Health and Government of the Republic of Croatia. The way you participate in the projects. Determination of administrative obligations of both the Republic of Croatia and the World Health Organization and the relationship of the Office of the World Health Organisation and the Ministry of Health and Social Care. And as translated into the Basic Agreement on the establishment of technical and advisory cooperation signed on 7 February 2005. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is before you a proposal for a law on the confirmation of a basic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Health Organization on the establishment of technical and advisory cooperation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the section relating to other particularly justified state reasons we propose the adoption of the Law by emergency procedure because we consider further quality cooperation to be of great importance in the speed of entry into force of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65112	Thank you. The committees? Oh, no? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65113	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, you heard in the introduction that the Secretary of State said the reasons why this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Basic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Health Organization today are before us, and why is it adopted by an urgent procedure? One of the reasons for the urgent procedure is the fact that this basic agreement was already signed in February of last year and that the text of this basic agreement can no longer be changed, and the second reason is also based on Article 139. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where the formal consent of the Republic of Croatia must be sought to be bound by an agreement and, inter alia, by this type of agreement. So the history of Croatia's relationship with the World Health Organization is long and, as already mentioned by our Andrija Printar, who was one of the founders of the World Health Organization, our healthcare professionals have actually been working together for many years and decades on various projects of the World Health Organization, and I would remind only of two major ones that were after World War II and related to the former state. That was... malaria in Macedonia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for decades, too, there's been a problem with the examination of the edema nephropathy known to our digging disease as we call it popular. So the reasons for working with World Health are absolutely justified. In fact, they are already ongoing and it is to be reminded that the establishment of the Croatian state in 1992 has already become a member of the World Health Organization and officially, and already in November of the same year the Office of the World Health Organization in the Republic of Croatia was established. It was then called the liaison officer's office and was founded by the health minister. The World Health Organisation, as the co-operation developed, increased in 2002 and contacts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Health Organization began to rise to a higher level. So, to go towards the signing of this fundamental agreement that is now ahead of us and this fundamental agreement as mentioned was signed on 7 February last year. It was signed by the then Minister of Health, Professor Hebrang, and a representative of the World Health Organisation for Europe, Mr Danzum. They have now matured the conditions for this basic agreement, so this legal arrangement of the status of cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the World Health Organization on the issue and status of the offices and the status of the co-operation itself is sort of legal. So, whatever was at the ministry's level is now being transferred to government level. So, the World Health Organization's Office should practically be in the ranks of a diplomatic representation with all those settings that go to it, and that means the issue of immunity, etc. The aim, therefore, is to strengthen this cooperation through advisory services to ensure that the status of the World Health Organization is legally regulated and thus that cooperation is raised to a higher level, and now confirmed by law. For all this, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the bill's proposal and will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65114	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of a basic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Health Organization on the establishment of technical and advisory cooperation. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary of the Ministry Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65116	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65117	Amendment accepted. It becomes an integral part of the proposal for a final law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour of a unanimous adoption of the proposed law, together with the amendment adopted. We are going to the next item - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, second reading of P.Z. No. 360; The Proposer is Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Justice, the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, human rights and the rights of national minorities and gender equality. Justice Minister Ana Lovrin will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65119	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here before the Croatian Parliament, the final proposal for amending and supplementing the Penal Code, which together with the amendments and additions already adopted in the first phase of 2004 which entered into force on 1 October 2004, is a unique whole which is implemented by the government's programme, which highlighted the determination of ensuring the necessary legal conditions for sanctioning criminal actions and their protectors and defining economic and organised crime by determining responsibility at all levels. It is common in drawing up the text of the drafts of these amendments and the addition of the laws. The judges of the Supreme Court, judges of the County Court in Zagreb, Deputy Attorney General, representatives of the Croatian Bar Association and a broad debate was held in the professional and general public, so public opinion was questioned, and the results of the research on the so-called judicial and legal and judicial policy of punishment were also taken into account. Compared to the proposal in the first reading of this law, the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code was respected by the opinions of the Assembly Committees, the competent authorities of the State Attorney's Office, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Family, the defenders, intergenerational solidarity, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Finance after the first reading here in the Croatian Parliament. The general feature of the proposed amendments and the addition of this law is the tightening of repression. Why? These amendments and additions to the laws had to respond to what has been established through long-term monitoring of the case law, which is that in the established sanctions and the range of those sanctions, and the penalty must have a range, because it is an individualisation of the penalty because it is a democratic achievement. However, a case-law survey found that courts mainly choose between the strictest limit of penalties and the lower limit of penalties are mostly approaching its minimum, and that, in fact, they often use mitigation instruments, judicial mitigation of penalties, and thus do not actually implement criminal policies, a legal criminal policy. The strategy aimed at making more equal use of the prescribed criminal frameworks in the sentence of perpetrators of criminal offences is that the following is to raise the lower specific measures of the prescribed penalties for a certain number of criminal offences and to limit the opportunities so far to mitigate such penalties by differentiating legal and judicial mitigation and by changing the limits of such mitigation by increasing them compared to the rule so far. This is part of the proposaler's strategy which aims more successfully than to agree to the prescribed and applied criminal repression against the perpetrators of all and especially the most serious criminal offences, thereby applying repression and effectively sharpening it. Further measures in this proposal to amend and supplement them are to allow for more serious criminal offences committed in the event that they are not subject to the penalty of a long-term prison instead of the maximum sentence of 15 years. Furthermore, so far, the punishment of a long - term prison has not been given to a younger adult who has not turned 21 years of age. It is now proposed to lower that limit to 18 years of life. The legal mitigation of penalties is now possible for all perpetrators who have been reduced by the criminis temporas, regardless of the extent to which their relevance has been reduced. And according to this proposal, only to the perpetrators who were reduced to a significant extent at the time of the crime. This limits the possibility of easing penalties against the current regulation. Furthermore, a conditional sentence may be applied under the current law to the perpetrator of a criminal offence for which a sentence of up to 10 years is prescribed by law if provisions on the mitigation of the sentence have been applied. According to this proposal, this possibility would no longer apply to the judicial mitigation of penalties, which significantly limits the application of a conditional conviction for serious criminal offences. There was talk of a life sentence being imposed. The proposer has decided not to impose this penalty, which has remained as such in some European countries only. And it is an assessment by the expert public that the 40-year sentence of a long-term prison is quite appropriate to sanction, given the age, the average age of the perpetrators and the predominant time to leave the sentence. And in the general part of this Penal Code, it is proposed to tighten up against parole. Which means that so far, there has been a rule that parole can be determined after half the fine has been sustained and extremely after a third. Now it's been tightened that parole can be imposed, can be allowed after 2/3 of the suspended sentence, and extremely after half. This proposal also extends the shortest deadlines of outdated criminal law enforcement and enforcement. It is proposed to extend the shortest deadlines from 2 years to 3 years and to an absolute age of 6 years. It has been estimated that the age for serious crimes does not need to be increased, because in practice these most severe crimes do not fall into old age. Compared to the first reading, the first reading of the Amendments and the addition of the Penal Code strengthened the criminal and legal protection of police officers. So instead of the limited qualifying circumstances so far for the murder of an official and other forms of violence against such a person when performing only certain jobs now this is, these are now qualitative forms for all police officers who perform any police work under the Police Act. In addition, for the murder of such a person, maximum punishment is foreseen, as is the case. for other worst crimes. Officials also understand the terms of the military police. In order to protect, enhanced protection of human trafficking victims in Article 175 of the proposal, a new incrimination has been added, which is in line with the Human Rights Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to which one who will take advantage of the position of a person he knows as a victim of human trafficking in forced labour or by serving sexual exploitation and slavery, etc., and all in accordance with the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention of trafficking in human beings. Also, in order to strengthen the protection of victims of domestic violence, especially children and minors, the provisions of criminal sanctions have been tightened, as well as the initiation of criminal proceedings for the offence of a body injury if it has been committed according to a family member, i.e. a child or a minor, it is prescribed that the proceedings are initiated under official duty, not a private suit, as so far. In addition, the criminal offence of bringing out personal or family opportunities will be particularly incriminating by an official or other person who commits this offence to a child in the exercise of his professional activity. Also in the criminal offence of abandonment and abuse of a child or a minor, the incrimination to punish a parent, adoptor or other person is complemented if a child or a minor exposes himself to death, general dangerous actions or otherwise. So there's been increased criminal justice protection in the family. Penalties for crimes against marriage, family, or youth have also been tightened. In addition to these days, we often hear, interest and public reaction to mild judgments in relation to certain criminal offences, the promoter, i.e. The Government of the Republic of Croatia should express its criminal political and, that is, the criminal-political position on the particular current danger of these crimes. Therefore, it has decided to prescribe a greater minimum and maximum measure of the obstacles, taking into account the already existing criminal repression. This is about criminal acts in connection with intoxicating drugs, criminal acts committed to the harm of children and minors, and criminal acts of economic crime. Therefore, in Article 173 of the Criminal Code, the abuse of intoxicating drugs in paragraph 2 has, therefore, been proposed to increase the sentence from one to 12 years to at least, to a suspended sentence of at least 3 years in prison to a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison. In Article 192, in the case of a criminal offence, the sexual relationship with a child referred to in paragraph 1 is proposed to increase the range of penalties from one to eight to three to 12 years, and paragraph 2 proposes to increase the sentence from at least 3 to at least 5 years or long term prison, meaning 20 to 40 years in prison. In paragraph 3, an increase in fines is proposed from one to 10 years to at least 3 means up to 15 years in prison. In paragraph 4, the sentence of a long-term prison is added, i.e. the sentence imposed may be between 20 and 40 years. This is about the most difficult forms of this crime, so sexual intercourse with a child under duress, abuse of position, or a serious consequence. In the criminal act of subjugation, especially with respect to children, there has also been an increase in prevented sanctions. In Article 196 of the criminal offence of the exploitation of children or minors for pornography, it has also been increased, increasing the above-mentioned prison sentence from 5 to 8 years. Article 197 in the criminal offence of meeting children with pornography increased the prison sentence to 6 months to 3 years in prison. In Article 197a children's pornography and particularly increased obstacles to criminal offences that we often hear about in the media these days, and they are ultimately organised and they are in the case of loan contracts but they are almost never going to do the penalty work of a loan agreement themselves but are then bound by an extortion or blackmail where prison sentences have been increased for up to 10 years, so from 3 to 10 years instead of the current one to 3. In relation to another newspaper, in accordance with the commitments made under the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption in the first stage of the amendments and supplementation of the Penal Code, criminal offences have been imposed on the receipt and giving of bribes in economic business, as well as offences against the official duty have been imposed. These amendments, the current amendment and the addition of the law prevented more penalties, thus increasing the penalty rate between 1 and 8 years in terms of the crime of bribery in the economic, economic business, and the payment of bribes ranging from 6 months to 3 years. These new amendments and amendments to the law have also made certain adjustments in the descriptions of the criminal offences of tax evasion and other duties referred to in Article 286. The KZ, therefore, unwittingly economic business where the existing incrimination has been complemented, and now, apart from unconscious business, it also includes a severe violation of the duty to care for the property interests of a legal person. Finally, in part of economic crime, it is necessary to note and explain the changes in Article 337. The Penal Code, which is a matter of abuse of position and authority where the term is referred to in paragraph 1. "another" replaces the words "to another legal or physical person". In fact, this is about amending the law in terms of clarification so far, although it is considered that there is no significant change in the law, namely the legislator considered and considered and the proposer still believes that under the term "other" there is to be considered another natural or legal person because there are a number of other works in which the term "other" is interpreted. However, as the case-law of the Supreme Court has been defined and made clear that under the term "other" it considers only a natural person and that, through the application of this law over a number of years, it has been found that there is actually a liberating verdict in the case where the illegal property benefit is provided to another legal person, legislator and legislator there is nothing left but an instrument or interpretation, a mandatory interpretation or amendment of the law or a claim that the legislator is right, but that the case law is not good. As otherwise, as the legislator cannot otherwise influence court practice, it is proposed to amend the law in such a way as to read instead of "other", "to another natural or legal person" to ensure that the penalties for all cases of profuturo are prevented, for cases that are under way, the matter remains identical. We can hope to change the case-law on existing cases in progress, and in any case it cannot be worse because this provision actually refers to the interpretation of the existing provision and there is no concern about the application of a mild law on ongoing cases. And finally to recap. The proposal for these amendments and the addition of tightening the criminal sanctions by 16% incrimination, in general, tightens parole measures out of the possibility of judicial mitigation. It also tightens the measures and measures, thus extending the deadlines in the event of a security measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment from 3 to 5 years. What is even more interesting is that the safety measure of the ban on performing calls or activities also opens up the possibility of extending from 5 to 10 years, and in the case of a security measure prohibiting driving a motor vehicle from 5 years of age, and in the case of a repeat act against safety of traffic with fatal consequences, this ban on driving a motor vehicle can be applied forever. These are mainly, therefore, compared to organised crime, these changes and additions introduce an extended interpretation of the property benefit acquired by the criminal act, so Article 82 provides that the property, as a property benefit, is also considered by a group of people or a criminal organisation that is in a time-related relationship with the criminal offence committed and which can be considered as originating from this act, because its legal origin cannot be established. In accordance with international criminal law sources, this significantly extends the notion of property benefit to be taken away by a court decision in the event of organised crime. Here are the short and generally proposed amendments to the second phase of the Penal Code. Clearly, in the fight and in the fight against crime, the material Penal Code itself is not enough, so it is part of a criminal justice system together with the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Police and the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65120	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. The Justice Committee. President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65121	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 41st session held on 9 May 2006, the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 28 April 2006. The Committee discussed the Law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In her opening statement, the Minister of Justice noted that the final draft of the Law ended the second phase of the revision of criminal law. As the reasons for the adoption of the Law and the amendments proposed are detailed, the reasons for the differences proposed in relation to the decision set out in the proposal for a law have been considered. This Regulation shall enter into In the case of a criminal offence of drug abuse, the KZ is proposed to increase, in paragraph 3 an increase in the specific measure below, and in paragraphs 4 and 5, an increase in the specific measure below. It also explained the reasons why the applicant was led by the proposed intervention in Article 337. The law. In the debate, most members supported the proposed amendments and additions because they represent a continuity and a whole with earlier amendments to criminal legislation. On the final proposal, amendments and additions to the Law, the Committee members made the following comments and opinions. It is a single observation that an increase in drug dealers will lead to a difficult situation in the prison system. To propose fines for property offences and to ensure that sanctions for modern market conditions of business are not provided for in the area of economic crime. The Head of the draft working group and an external member of the Committee stressed that the proposed amendments were measured and complex and should be seen as a whole. In response to the request for a bigger sentence, he pointed out that the working group consisted of judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the county court, deputy chief state attorney, representative of the Croatian Bar Association, taking into account all the proposed amendments and additions to the 2003 Criminal Law that the Constitutional Court abolished. All proposals in the first phase of changes, then the results of research on so-called the legal and judicial policy of punishment, the results of the examination of public opinion and judicial officials on the lengthy sentences of prisons, proposals by competent ministries, courts, state's attorneys, other state bodies on the basis of which it has been designated to tighten repression for individual offences. It is considered that the proposed amendment to Article 337 was well-intentioned, but intervention could be avoided by giving an authentic interpretation of that provision of the Law. Asked not to incriminate the greatness of fascist and other totalitarian states, the Justice Minister stressed that this issue would be resolved by a special law. In the debate, the opinion prevailed that it was a matter of quality changes in material criminal law, in particular in the criminal offence of drug abuse, child protection and youth offences, fraud, interest-bearing contracts and others. After the debate was held, with 6 votes for and 1 abstention, the Committee of Justice decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65122	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Dear Representative, Committee President Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65123	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 54th session held on 11 May 2006 discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the final proposal of the Law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solution set out in the final proposal of the Law, in particular with regard to the determination of the appropriate proportion of the severity of the criminal offence and the prescribed level of criminal sanctions. Member of the Committee, colleague of Slaven Letica, pursuant to Article 51. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament set out the opinion, holding that the Proposer should have put in place amendments to the final proposal for the Law on the criminal offence of high treason and the threat of state independence and regulate new criminal acts, war profit and war fraud and the capture of the state, as he suggested in the debate on the Bill's proposal. After the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority of votes, 5 votes for and 2 abstentions, to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65124	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Honored Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 40th session on 5 May 2006 the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. This Law was considered by the Committee as an interested working body. In addition to members of the Committee, representatives of the Ombudsman’s Office for Children and several NGOs participated in the debate. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code with the following amendments, which I will now read and explain briefly. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's a hate crime. "The crime of hate is every crime of this law committed out of hatred for a person, because of its race, skin color, sex, sexual orientation, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social status, age, health status or other traits." Explanation. In addition to affecting the lives of individuals, hate crimes have negative consequences on the social order,... and the quality of life of the community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The hate crimes thus place an unequal position on the part of a person in view of their belongings, i.e. by the difference between non-proliferation, which is contrary to several articles, which are listed here, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The attack on a person motivated by hatred for a particular social group is not only a damage to the state, the victim of a pardon, but an attack on its value as human beings. Such an attack is an attack on the victim’s personality and on the individual’s personal dignity protected in Articles 22 and 35. The Constitution. The Republic of Croatia ratified the international convention and the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, Article 4. The Convention obliges Member States to declare criminal acts by law promoting ideas based on superiority or hatred, encouraging racial discrimination as well as violence or encouraging such acts against any race of people or group of people who are God or ethnic origin. That was the first amendment. The second amendment concerns Article 14 of the Minister. Whoever kills a person motivated by hatred for a person because of its race, skin color, sex, sexual orientation, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social status, age, health status or other traits. So that's the new point one, and that amendment actually complemented the previous amendment. This proposal means that the second amendment would treat hate crime as a crime of serious murder based on hatred for one of the different characteristics of individuals or groups to which one belongs. The third amendment refers to Article 42, where in the new paragraph 4 of Article 175, the words "up to three years" are replaced by the words "up to five years". Why? Because the tightening of the fine from 3 to 5 years among other things is proposed to make such a tightening for the reason that mandatory criminal sanctions, criminal sanctions, pardons, not only the execution of a criminal offence described in the new paragraph of Article 2... The Penal Code is already an attempt to execute this act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that way, by tightening the sentence from 3 to 5 years, you're actually punishing an attempt to execute a crime, not just an execution. The fourth amendment applies, excuse me, to Article 58. The new paragraph of Article 3 of Article 210 is amended and reads: "Whoever brings out, implements or publishes something from the child's personal or family life or publishes the child's photograph, otherwise reveals his identity which caused the child to be upset, mocked by a peer or other person, or otherwise endangered the child's well-being will be punished by a prison of 6 months to 3 years". Explanation. It is only from the new paragraph 3 of Article 201 proposed in the final proposal for this Act that it does not provide adequate protection for children in the manner set out in Article 16. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is therefore proposed. The legal provision must be unequivocally clear from it what is being protected when it comes to the privacy of children. This and because there are frequent articles in the media in which, without any protection of identity, photographs of children are published, including their names and last names and thus violates children's right to privacy, resulting in severe consequences. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the In Article 209(2), it is amended and reads: "Whoever does not comply with child restraint or underage in a way that is high and within the deadlines as defined by the executive decision or executive settlement will be punished by the law of the prison from 3 months to 3 years". The proposed amendment respects the applicant's proposal to tighten the fines, however, because of a problem very often encountered in practice when it comes to infringements of the right to support the child and the minor, it mainly refers to the alimony popularly spoken. The amendment also proposes a more precise description of the criminal offence referred to in Article 209(2). Penalty law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65126	Thank you. Committee on Gender Equality, President, Honored Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65127	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Gender Equality at its 36th session discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. The Committee discussed the draft law in accordance with Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Interested Working Body held a written opinion and amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Criminal Law, which were jointly submitted by the female network of Croatia, the Centre for Women Victims of the war "Rossa" and the Network of NGOs for the Prevention and Elimination of the Trade of Women "Peter". The Committee is familiar with the amendments of the Ombudsman for children of the Republic of Croatia, which it sent to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, which it also explained at the meeting of this Committee. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative met the Committee with the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. It has been pointed out that the proposed amendments strengthen the legal protection of the family, extend the incrimination for child abuse, extend the deadlines of limitations, extend the circle of persons who can be considered perpetrators of domestic violence, all leading to a tightening of penalties, an increase in criminal repression. In particular, the Committee referred to the proposed amendments to the laws relating to amendments to the criminal frameworks in such a way as to raise the lower penalty measure for the offences against life and the body, the crimes against sexual freedom and sexual disorder and the crimes against family and youth cancer. In the debate, members supported in particular the tightening of criminal repression for perpetrators of criminal offences, violation of the duty of child restraint or minor. ... Penalty, in the Committee's view, is necessary, especially in the light of the fact that a large number of parents fail to comply with the legal obligation to support children by using various types of abuse of positive regulations such as: working on black. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has been indicated that courts should be encouraged to impose sentences for non-payment of alimony, but also ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to find a model of assistance for those parents who have indeed been found to have lost their income temporarily. For losing a job, and bonds are alimony payments. The analysis of the case law has shown that the judicial selection of penalties for perpetrators of criminal offences is, as a rule, in the light of the minimum sentence prescribed for a certain criminal offence. In the debate, the members of the Committee stressed that such a reform of the judiciary would not significantly contribute to the efficiency of the system. In fact, the Committee’s view that such changes in the lower penalty measure are merely trying to maintain, in a legislative sense, the imposition of a legal minimum of penalties for the offences that have been committed most frequently applied in case law. In this regard, in the Committee's view, it is high time that either through the judicial academy or in another way judges were educated on the consequences of giving the minimum penalty measure and the judicial mitigation of the same penalty. The Committee supported amendments four and five to Articles 58 and 60. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities adopted by that Committee on a proposal from the Ombudsman for children. The members and members agree that the private and identity of the child must be protected from media sensationality. As the data suggests that the personal rights of children are the most vulnerable in the area of avoidance... family violence and pedophilia all members of the board consider it necessary to tighten criminal-legal repression in the protection of children's rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the debate, the Committee supported the prosecutor’s view that the period of time should become obsolete for the crimes committed at the expense of children in a way that would extend the time limit until the child’s age. The Committee is aware of the way in which the limitation deadlines stemming from the level of the suspended penalty are determined but the Committee considers that it is possible to amend the criminal law policy in that part without prejudice to the harmonisation of criminal law. In the end, the Committee came up with four amendments, unanimously adopting the first and second amendments and the third and fourth ones accepted the majority of votes seven for and two abstentions. And after the debate was held, they decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code with the four amendments. Mr. President, I'm not going to read everything. Allow me, I will just specifically refer to the amendment proposal one that proposes, which is to add Article 1a behind Article 1. And then it reads, "In Article 20, a new paragraph 7 is added, which reads: "A timeless persecution for the crimes of Chapter XIV. offences against sexual freedom and sexual disorder committed to the harm of a child and a minor shall not run the time for which, under the law, a child and a minor damaged by a criminal offence does not have a business capacity. In the present circumstances, the absolute age in most of these works occurs in ten years and in most cases when the work is committed at the child’s early age, the statute of limitations occurs before the child’s age. The specificity of children’s rights is also in the circumstances that they need the help of adults, which are most often parents, adoptive parents, guardians who, in most cases, violate the same children’s rights. Therefore, only in a situation where a person can, without any legal or real obstacles, demand the exercise of his rights can we talk about the full extent of its protection. Amendment 2 concerns Article 42, which regulates Article 175. Amendment 3 refers to Article 54, which proposes amendments and complements to Article 195 of this proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the We suggest adding Article 54a. which reads: "Beyond Article 195, the title and Article 195a is added: "Buying sexual services A person who buys or tries to buy a sexual favor from another person will be fined by fines or fines by one year. A person who buys or tries to buy a sexual favor from a minor or a child will be punished for three months to three years in prison. The criminal proceedings against the offences referred to in this Article shall be initiated on official duty." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The reason for the introduction of such a new crime is seen in the need to combat the cause of prostitution. The qualified form of this Part shall be provided for in Article 175(4). In relation to paragraph 2, it should be said that any type of sexual relationship or other sexual activity with a child is punishable under other provisions of the Penal Code until there are no acts that would regulate the punishment for attempting to purchase sexual services from a child or a minor. Prostitute persons should be seen as victims who do not need to be punished. It is necessary to punish pimps, persons who trade women and children and persons who buy sexual services of prostitutes and thus exploit poverty, unemployment, discriminatory working conditions, gender inequality and violence against women and children. Prostitution should be seen as a form of exploitation of women and children who represent a serious social problem. In this respect, the Committee proposed to the applicant and such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65128	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65129	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Here, from the age of 97, when we adopted the Penal Code to this day, the same has changed, and with this intervention, it's going to change equal ten times. And since it means one rounded anniversary of this amendment should in some way be marked specifically. Matesha's government proposed a basic law to 97. In much of what might have been the law when this economic and transmuted crime was also missing, it complemented it once. The 3rd January administration changed it even five times. Sanader's government will make this a third change or a change. As a rule, we see now, there are few new incriminations, mainly about increasing the sentence. So the logic is that increased repression tries to reduce criminal behavior. Now, we may still have missed this life sentence, or as someone says life imprisonment or taking away freedom forever, and one would think there would be no more crime in Croatia. But the devil will be gone. He'll be the same, or there'll be more. So, the problem is somewhere else from that social, social moment where we live until the transition that we are clearly going through where, at one point, it was almost all allowed by making it clear that those who are being used in the transition don't get hurt, they are now becoming pillars of society and, as a rule, the suffering of poverty but later on. Mr. Sanader, in the government two weeks ago, announced this law, quote, as a need for more rigorous punishment for drug dealers, pedophiles and interest rates. And there's no one else, but nobody in this assembly who won't accept that drug dealers, pedophiles, or kamatari are being punished more rigorously. I'm reading today in "Free Dalmatia" "Camatar Noose - Police are looking for a Zagreb extortioner who has a 20-year-old young man hanged for 30,000 kunas." Or, for example, another example two, three weeks ago. A group of Umag’s parents glued the city of Umag with posters on which it appeared or listed six, seven names of Umag’s drug dealers. The police themselves said that the group has about 20 criminal charges, over 150 criminal charges. Clearly, if someone is innocently indicated on that flyer that someone should be amnesty, rehabilitated. But I don't think your parents are far from the truth and that when they run out of faith in the rule of law, when they run out of trust in the police, when they run out of faith in the Croatian judiciary, they simply don't have anything else left to organize themselves and perform themselves. I understand that this is a way of showing some kind of mistrust to the institutions of this country. I also understand that that's not the way. That's what our parents should stay away from. But on the other hand, I understand them 100%. I'm 100% supportive because I don't know how else to end a drug mob, and drug addiction in two or three years will certainly be much higher in these areas than it is today. And that's why in that part I support clearly more rigorous punishments. Police have seized over 100 kilos of heroin at our border crossings in the last two or three months. But what it's worth when drugs are more than ever and its price is lower than they've ever been. And when it's more available than it's ever been. And so I said here I support this government proposal, and in the most difficult forms of such behavior, it is really necessary for those individuals to be prevented from maximum punishments, and for that kind of crime if they asked ordinary people, they would tell you that the death penalty would probably be too mild for them. That's what the citizens think. Clearly, this House will not impose a death penalty because if someone has been isolated from public life for a long time, he should be done business in that mile, however, he is not. Or on the other hand he should be resociated, but it's not like that because it's become normal that there are drugs in our prisons just like on the street. It's all in prison. The truth is a little more expensive, but it's amazing what the minister said yesterday that there's as much in prison as there is on the street. I don't want to talk about it anymore. I am particularly glad that the government proposes that more rigorous punishment be imposed on the kamatari. I said and mentioned from Free Dalmatia today or yesterday's example. And that's just great. However, the following should be kept in mind. That by 2004, until the end of the Law that allowed interest on interest was the largest interest rate, the largest interest rate was the country itself, and our courts, and then the banks and our greeners clearly set out. It is also likely that some courts, first of all, acted as almost exposure to the underworld. So it was normal for a debt of $30,000 that some individuals would buy out to grow to $11 million. That the stake of 1200 kuna in Zagrebačka banka rises to 400 million kuna and then Zagrebačka banka to this Karlovac company that I do not appoint the cost of 160 million kuna, and 60 million kuna willy boy from the Principality inherits. Or in that 470,000 kuna dispute between the AGM trade in Sarajevo and the Bank of Commerce after Bozo Prka is reasonabled by baseball bats that the bank pays nothing less than for those individuals 15 million EUR. Of course, those baseball bats when I talk about it, and then I'm afraid, but it's time to just say it in public. I will quote one sentence of the report on the work of the Ombudsman last year, Mr. Jurica Malcic, with whom I share 100% the court with which he literally says: "Unfortunately and the strategy of judicial reform puts emphasis on and sets the goals only by stressing the need for maximum independence of the judiciary from the formal structures of the legislative, executive authorities, and less on the internal dimension of the independence of each judge than other particularly informal influences of interest groups and lobbys both politically and financially often linked and those from the edge of the law or beyond. And these influences are more dangerous and, by general belief, more and more significant and more numerous. That's what the report says. The attorney general I believe we'll support this year. Now the question arises not only of more rigorous punishment, but of whether the state will disprove, above all, the small citizens who have been the victim of such judgments by Croatian courts. That's the point. Who's going to damage them? Who will damage them, who will give them satisfaction to those who, for example, are inequitable, with a powerful verdict, are still morally ruined. The kind of business that went down. Which failed his reputation. To which is, who have lost their place in their midst. Who will protect us from such conduct by Croatian courts? Are we going to supplement the heads of the Penal Code in that section? Are we going to prescribe appropriate criminal acts? Are we going to go to those most severe forms of criminal or criminal behavior where we've now introduced so-called. Command responsibility to prescribe that those who worked with those who fought against Croatia, for example, sold oil or not to say everything else. I don't want to pick up all the other items. Is it going to work for you, too? I think maybe we should. For example, we have command responsibility. At least that's what we're trying to convince The Hague to take over the Ademi case, and those who mixed everything in sixteen with oil and other items today are the pillars of society. It's a paradox that really opens up a lot, but a man is afraid to say something about it today because against the government you can say whatever you want, whatever you want, and you can be sure that nothing happens to you. You can't talk about what you're supposed to say against the MPs, but those tycoons can't talk about what they're supposed to say anymore. Indeed who will apostrophe that responsibility of our courts. Perhaps soon the Croatian authorities will face lawsuits before international courts by the "bath" whose 20 thousand marks or 24 shares are the fault of calculating the rate difference in the amount of thousands, several thousand kunas and their investment of 500 million kuna has failed. The Constitutional Court's decision is expected soon and whatever it does won't be good, but I won't talk about it. What I don't understand is that the most criminal charges we have in the County of Istria are 100,000 inhabitants. 3879, then Zagreb 3762 then Sibenik with 2 thousand 916 and Rijeka with 2 thousand 745 and so on. In Istria, it's interpreted as tourism. But I find it difficult to imagine that one Italy that is 10 times more touristic than Croatia has fewer criminal charges, so there are fewer criminal applications for Slovenia and so on. I claim that when Istria is the case, it is really specific and that it applies standards that are not applied elsewhere in Croatia. What goes down in Istria doesn't collapse elsewhere but I don't want to talk about it. Article 14 Right to work, pension insurance, etc., health care. If you don't pay here means this service, no obligation also increases your sentence by 6 months. So, up to six years. So 1 to 6 years old. With the opportunity in Croatia now in mind, and I advocate the maximum standards and protection that workers should enjoy. But knowing on the other hand for an economic moment where it works on thousands and thousands of small craftsmen who have almost gone bankrupt, it would be urgent for me to be cynical in this country to approach the construction of another 20, 30 prisons with a capacity of 1,000 to 2,000 places so that all of these little people could be placed there. It's changing here to give away military and state secrets. There will need to be very precise, very precise regulation of what that information comes to, say, people in the Committee on Internal Policy. More specifically, how to resolve this duality of the need for the public to know about someone under quotes often and stupidity or banality on which someone puts a sign of war or do not know what secret and the fact that the public should know that information. Article 272. triggering traffic accidents where there is no intention and raising now the threshold from one year to ten years as we have so far for three years to ten years. I think it's still too rigorous and the existing solution I think was maximum correct and higher than the fact that you have in this country two million people who own cars and can be found daily in that position with or without this absurd zero-prompt law that the note bene destroyed by the winery industry. Unwittingly economic business where someone will need to prove that something conscious was doing there the provision has also changed, but there may indeed be a higher penalty. Giving bribes is what we see that doesn't change. The penalty scheduled is 1 to 8 years, etc. The deadlines of old change. That's what we've been looking for, but when we turn ownership, it's clearly all papal kittens. It has been 12, 14, 15 years since that robbery, and today we can only conclude that these individuals have become pillars of society, a measure of success, media freedoms clearly, legal standards, and clearly everyone can be called to a more favourable law. We'll also legalize them with a criminal tax on what they've acquired, and then the story will be put to rest. And to end the question of the credibility of our criminal system is not only in law but also in courts, in lawyers, in other institutions of police repression, in prisons in the broadest sense of the word. But the honor of every great judge but who in this country trusts our courts? We are the first to change that perception of the public, only we can when we know that the good part of our courts is not as politically dependent as the public defender says, but increasingly dependent on large capital. It's simply true and it can't be challenged. There was no transformation or transition. There was a metamorphosis that probably even Kafka wouldn't describe anymore. I mentioned prisons. I will also mention a recent riot in a pulse prison, where this Nenad Filipovic also served as one of the FINA robbers, when those two security guards were killed, and Filipovic served six years earlier, and it is clear that this man has come out of the country's security system. He was supposed to protect the system, and that's what happened. There's something wrong with the Minister's prisons. That's what you were talking about yesterday. So much of this punishment should be accepted, and we should certainly commend the last police action. Until our courts become credible institutions, and for many years they probably won't, and that's why I've quoted some judgments. Croatia will have no luck. In one word, if we think we're going to help criminal repression, then we need to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65130	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65131	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Madam Minister, with an associate, colleague and colleague. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to start by expressing serious concern and regret that it gave up the real reform of the Penal Code, which allowed Novel of the Criminal Law of 2003, which it also renewed as a SDP Club in 2004 and was rejected. Today here are 3 years after the abolition of this novel The penal law is changing again, and if we take into account the amendment of the Penal Code in an unprecedented way that the crime of money laundering has been corrected by correction of the Penal Code. We at the SDP Club and I think all the public are waiting and the word of the Constitutional Court is this way to amend the Penal Code. Therefore, these amendments to the Penal Code always bring great attention to the public not only because the sanctions of the Penal Code are the most severe sanctions of the legal order, and as such the most difficult affecting man's greatest values, his freedom, his property, but also at this time, and because the expectations of the public are so right that the Penal Code as one of the ways that society opposes crime finds an adequate response to the worrying increase in crime in the last two and a half years and that of the most serious, most dangerous, most brutal. Today's news is true, today there has been no murder in Croatia, no robbery has occurred. Then did the state and society capitulate before the most serious crimes. Does this government have any concept of criminal policy and what it really wants from the Penal Code? What he wants to do in a completely wrong way and for us is unacceptable and inadequate and confusing, and what he won't do now is quite clear and why. In fact, neither in this amendment to the Penal Code, there is any sanctioning of those behaviours that have caused general condemnation, general social rebuke, the phenomenon of privatization of businesses and the act of credentials were creditors, suppliers, workers or states. It is understandable that this authority's persistent refusal to make the necessary changes in this area is the more the current creator of this proposal has already long since determined in 1997 that our economic incriminations are one relic in our Penal Law. This shall also ignore the obligations of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 69. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. In the area of competition protection, this has already been done by adopting a modern Law on the Protection of the 2003 Competition, without asking whether the provisions of the Criminal Law were in line with that, or whether the SDP was absolutely right when it claimed, and now it is more secure than ever that the government that originally provided all of this will by no means create a legislative framework under which these favorites could be found beyond the lock, but lets them enjoy their prey carefreely. As a reason for such a legislative abstinence, the Proposer states that the procedures under way could raise the question of the application of milder law and thus decriminalisation of certain behaviours. If such thinking were adopted, no amendments to the Penal Code would occur, either here or anywhere. In theory and practice, however, certain rules for the application of milder law have been established. This is especially true of changes in economic crime according to the 2003 novel was made in relatively rich literature before the novel was due to enter into force. I am also referring to the Croatian Yearbook on Criminal Law and Practice No. 2. 2003, which also contains materials 16. Councils of the Croatian Association for Criminal Law and Practice which otherwise even the proposal itself is called upon. This should also be added to the fact that during 2003 the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia on the application of the novel to economic incrimination and, in particular, on this sensitive subject, has carried out a well-prepared instruction of lower state attorneys and also the Ministry of Justice with courts. The sanctioning of economic crime was to enable a new incrimination contained in the 2003 novel as a central work of abuse of trust, modelled by Austrian, Swiss and German legislation by our legal expert in the European voice, Professor Petar Novoselec. True, these incriminations from a legal and technical point of view are complex. They require knowledge of the rich jurisprudence of foreign countries, but also of their own, high level of theoretical knowledge and legal nomotechnical skills, so the promoter, if he didn't already know how to do this himself, had to inform in the 2003 novel. So the ignorance here doesn't add up. The descriptions of the economic crimes in the current Penal Code are completely out of date. They draw origins from the Socialist legal system based on social property and are completely inappropriate to the new constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. What is more, there are sometimes solutions from the so-called administrative socialism, such as the treatment of abuse of positions and powers, as well as of other commercial offences as criminal offences against official duty arising from the period when the responsible persons in the holding were equated with the official persons. Criminal acts that should serve to protect competition, such as violations of the equality carried out by economic activities, the creation of a monopolitical position on the market, unfair competition in foreign trade, the distortion of customers is also taken over from a socialist period and are therefore far from the European Union's right that is precisely the case in this area. The descriptions of certain economic offences are, in addition, legally and technically unarranged and may be overlapped with each other, all of which creates additional difficulties in practice. The truth is that neither the best criminal law can correct all the greatest injustices nor completely prevent future similar behaviors. But the state structures themselves should be their biggest dams, not those that make or even stimulate such actions. The public simply does not accept situations where the chosen ones can do unpunished business in a way that does not pay the creditors, do not pay or cut off workers. If they are acquired by civil responsibility, let's say through the government's so-called HITRO project, they liquidate the company, and they form others and so on. How long, gentlemen? The public does not accept that, through a series of repeated trials, law enforcement authorities fail to carry out the expected justice in a notorious example of privatization malversion that has been gathering the attention of our public for a decade. There is no more creative application of the law than higher court cases, but Croatia still does not have adequate economic criminal incrimination. Justice's unwillingness to face economic crime had to leap for, a significantly raised level of limitation deadlines precisely for this type of crime. However, here are two more or perhaps a few more years and there will be no more theoretical chances of meeting the minimum of justice. That is exactly what disappointed our citizens the most and narrowed down the room for enthusiasm that true changes are possible for the better. And it opened up a space of apathy and indifference and a tendency to think about doing nothing about it. But it's a wound that hasn't healed yet, it's a crime which, like aggression on a long deadline, traumatized the entire nation. That is why we must not allow it to fall into oblivion, for there is no oblivion, and that is why this authority will bear with it as an Eastern sin. Furthermore, in a situation where there is a very difficult situation in Europe for Croatian workers, it is incomprehensible to ignore this problem by the authorities that, for example, banned a protest in St. For example, when an employee who is not paid by an employer wishes to complain to the authorities. The government believes that not paying the worker his earned salary is not such a social hazard as to become a crime. Let's release a salary right that can't work at all in practice unless we have a crime of non-payment of wages. But it certainly is dangerous for the state to say that these same workers are gathered here in St. Mark. So it is quite clear that the changes protect those values that are in the interests of the ruling, while ignoring those that are not in the focus of its true interest. Here we see, great protection is provided to the state itself and to the highest state officials. A minimum of 3 to 5 years has been raised, maximum is not determined. So it is completely contrary to the democratic and liberal aspirations of citizens where the security of the individual and his assets must become an absolute priority over the requirements for total state protection. However, just in the time of the announcement of the socio-economic crisis, the sterility and incompetence of the ruling furniture, their fear of their authority general interests become the main protection of the facility. It was always and always a sure sign that it was going into crisis times, that there were no answers to important social issues. We need the Penal Code to protect the worker, who will give security and full protection to the citizen and his property, who will provide protection to all those who are working on the painful and dangerous work of detecting and processing the perpetrators of criminal offences, starting with police officers, state attorneys and judges, who need a criminal act of obstruction of justice where any obstruction of witnesses will be considered as well, we need responsible behaviour of the holder of the judicial authority, we need the criminal act that we had in our legal history until 1997 when it disappears from our legal law, from our law. We had it in 2003, and then there was fate as a whole, and it didn't contain this proposal. We in the SDP are seeking protection from any chicane behaviour towards the holders of the judicial authority. But we are also seeking the criminal responsibility of those judicial officials who would be irresponsible and illegal and act accordingly. Life in prison is really not a key issue of criminal justice reform. But the expert and general public know about the situation when such punishment arises as just, just and necessary. There is no room for outwitting, some metaphysic or some schoolgirl, but a very pragmatic question whether at today's level of development in Croatia is such a punishment needed or not, whether there are people who kill like they're doing one of the most harmless jobs. The applicant is therefore instructed to, for example, read the reasoning of the judgment in the case of Srdjan Mladjan. Our case-law unfortunately knows cases where the perpetrator, after a fully sustained sentence, has repeated the act for which he has always and during the maintenance of the sentence that he will do so. Will you bear responsibility and for such, do not give God the future situation that we have already had? We in the SDP, as well as on the trail of public support, claim that society has the right to defend itself by insulating them. Just the ones that are a permanent danger to others. You claim that this should not be done and therefore I repeat, will you feel responsible if such situations happen again? The promoter probably added what he stated in the explanation of the earlier proposal for amendments to the Penal Code on the issue, so he said he was doing research through the Ivo Pilar Institute, but that it is contradictory. Here we have now received in this proposal a new research where 70 and some percent of citizens are said to not support it, namely that it has been determined for the punishment of a long-term law, and 65% of citizens do not approve of such punishment. The greatness of fascist, Nazi and other totalitarian states and ideologies and the promotion of xenophobia was envisaged by the example of German penal legislation in the 2003 novel is now missing. In 2004, the prime minister made a public promise, publicly announced from the government's session in August 2004 that he had given the Ministry of Justice a month to choose to prepare for amendments to the penal law that the amendments would contain this criminal act. Here's about to be two years old, the law changes every little bit, but the ministry refused to listen to the prime minister. He's been denied obedience here, and now the government's reasoning is that a special task force has been formed to prepare changes in this direction. So if it takes almost three years for this government to incriminate him... for a fine law of about 300 members, it would take him about 900 years to give the government a bonus for easier and harder forms of basic incrimination. And while the Ministry of Justice refuses the prime minister's order, the government is thinking and thinking about what would happen to this problem, until now every few days, and even a few days ago, more specifically on the very day of Europe, they adopted swastikas on the churches and monuments of NOB. The police carried out an eyewitness and stated that please, it's about the damage to someone else's business that's being prosecuted on a proposal rather than on official duty. Gentlemen of the government here is about a direct attack on antifascism and that in the premises during World War II that were the center of resistance. Many lives have been lost to the freedom of Istria and all of Croatia. And so while the entire free world celebrates victory over fascism and when the day of Europe is marked throughout our continent, we all across our beautiful Istria have seen cowardly crosses on the churches and monuments of NOB. For this government, it's just the damage of some other person's stuff. Gentlemen, this isn't about someone else's substance. This is about our thing. This is about really finally defining ourselves for what we advocate when we set foot and skip Croatia's borders. The proposal clarifies that the proposal's strategy was to strengthen the repression, which was the idea and guideline of the novel in 2003. You have also, in your last opinion, rejected the SDP proposal just claimed that it was unacceptable in quotes of "demented" repression and tightening repression when you rejected the proposal. So what happened now, in the meantime? Either directly or indirectly, you admit that there has been an increase in criminality, and this is how you want to fight, and even though speaking in the debate on our proposal, it has been said exactly that this is the wrong way to fight crime. However, what is very important to note here is that changes have selectively been made, that as from a bag, the criminal law, individual heads, that there has been a rebalancing between crimes in a particular head and that we do not speak among the individual heads what all the Penal Code that must have one system cannot be changed in some phases and that we do not know at all why, what is changed in the first and why in the first and third. Did you leave for the third possible reflection on economic crime, and the first stage is cloning? So it's something that will cause serious difficulties in practice. The prisons are full, so what you're doing for the petty distributors they booked, you had to prepare the prisons. Read what you are told in the Prison State Report. In prisons the situation will explode and you simply won't have anywhere with those who say more victims than real criminals and for them justice will remain unattainable. So here's what I'm gonna do. Speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I must finally say that the SDP club will not support such a law because it is not the expression of a rational criminal policy but the expression of a frightened order, and even here you have promised journalists changes, you have not made those changes, although you have completed the proposal in 2003 that just for the media, only fines are foreseen for journalists, but to exempt the prison sentence. You didn't do it even though you promised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65132	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65133	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am correcting the inaccuracies that my colleague said the citizens were disappointed. That's not true. Citizens are angry that justice is told by a colleague who has done nothing for four years for justice. Then move on. Inaccurate are also allegations of confusion, lack of authority, etc. And are you colleagues listening to yourself? You only speak in 2003, 2003, the novels, the 2003 strategy, everything happened in 2003. So on January 3, 2000, you took power.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65134	Second correction by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65135	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague in a completely incorrect speech when you would evaluate it from beginning to end, said that this law was actually encouraged by some misdeeds. That's completely incorrect. So such a qualification for such a proposal to amend the law is simply incorrect. And the other thing, it seems, indeed, that there is amnesia in the SDP as far as their activities are concerned, so they forgot that they were in power. They probably didn't do anything but open the elevators, so now they're trying to make a difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65136	HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65137	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. Well, for the HSP club, it's unquestionable to change the profile of criminal repression in relation to the rigorous punishment of pedophilia, pedophile, drug dealers and interest rates. It is an indisputable fact and it is supported by the public and everyone who wants to deal seriously with these problems, and the number of these crimes is getting higher and higher unfortunately. But the HSP club doubts the planned achievement and achievement of the goals of this criminal law novel, as the minister herself said, and that is also the reason and objectives for the adoption of this law. If that's the case, here's what I'm going to try to explain to you in detail. First it means what it is, first it's the general nature's remarks. We also know that the Penal Code is a fundamental law in every country, its solutions must be permanent and permanent. It can and must be changed only when there are real reasons for it, meaning changing social opportunities, international obligations, etc. That. Such Penal Code or Code is a key component of the rule of law and guarantees of the security of its citizens. The examples of developed democracy countries point to this. The Croatian Penal Code has been amended four times so far. Now, so today we're discussing the fifth novel of the Penal Code. If the time of application, i.e. for the past seven years, follows that we change the Penal Code every year and a half. This is not acceptable for the basic system law, which imposes a question of reasons for frequent changes. The proposed amendment and complementarity are based on the need to tighten the criminal repression and to achieve that goal propose a large number of new, stricter legal frameworks, amend general provisions and introduce some new forms of existing criminal offences and new criminal offences. If the legal novels cover as much as 130 on a total of 391 articles, if it wants to change the profile of criminal repression, then it is clear that the reform of such proportions should be part of the strategy of regulating criminal repression, which means that it must be brought on common ground with other regulations, in particular the Law on criminal proceedings, on the enforcement of sanctions, on the organisation of courts, on police. A partial approach to interventions only in material and legal regulations will certainly again lead to new, soon-to-be changes and additions, as it was during the past period and during the former government and during the current government. It's just something new, it's reformed, and it's basically the same situation. So instead of correcting the existing law, Croatia needs a new, whole Penal Code that will not change every year and a half when the government comes or changes. However, in order for us to come to this, to do so, we here in the Croatian Parliament need first of all to execute a full analytical verdict of the number of crimes, the work of the police, the work of the State's Attorney's Office and the work of the courts themselves, so that we can have one real novel. That information we have, yesterday we're on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, so that's the basic data first. We've received a review of the fundamental security and indicators and the results of the work. So, the Home Office in 2005. And there it is visible that, it is reported that 79 thousand 946 crimes, which is 6.4% less than in 2004, and 53,000 were resolved 619, which is 1.5% lower than in 2004. The rate of resolution is 67.1%, and compared to the crimes for which the procedure is initiated under official duty, 3.3% more than in 2004. 32 thousand 544 crimes have also been recorded in which, since the official initiation of the proceedings, the absence of a proposal for damages has been waived, and the crimes with the unknown perpetrator for which the case is brought about by a private suit. The rate of resolution of this type of crime is 24.4%. When both types of crimes are summed up, the total criminality is 112,000,490 reported crimes. Of which 61 thousand 551 was resolved. So the rate is 54.7%. Here, that's a fundamental indicator that we have to go and start from that part and see how much the State's Attorney's Office is, what did it do in that part? How many of these crimes have been prosecuted in court, and then we'll get a whole other picture. That it's not only a problem of advocacy of the Penal Code, but it's our problem in this part of the discovery, quality police work, quality work of the State's Attorney's Office and quality work of the courts. It's real and that real analysis is the predecessor to everything, and if we don't think about it that way, we can fight here as much as we want, but without that, we won't get an important shift in this area. Therefore, the Penal Code is a key regulation for criminal justice and the liability of criminal justice, we see, therefore, not satisfactory. Both in this part and according to how many crimes were committed, how much of this was discovered, how much of this was being prosecuted by the State's Attorney's Office and how much was eventually sanctioned. Part of the sample lies, so in the existing legal arrangement. In a significant part of the Penal Code is comparable also with relevant sources in other countries. In some parts, however, there are no provisions necessary. This primarily refers to the various phenomena of economic crime or, more specifically, to the transition abduction, which is why and how the law enforcement and detection of criminal offences are not prepared. An enormous number of malfeasances in conversion are neither processed nor sanctioned, and it can only be made that what is illegally privatised to be taken away. It's the first important start. If this part of the Penal Code is compared with other European countries, for example, there is a serious gap in German and a lack of important provisions. In view of Croatia's transition period, it should have been at the time of adoption, meaning 1997 to provide for appropriate criminal offences that are not available. Instead, it remains on the adjusted, expanded concept of criminal offences against the economy, with the addition of content from international contracts. The proposal in this regard only slightly corrects things and the situation. The strengthening of criminal repression according to the proposal in reality has no justification in the number of persons reported because the applicant states, which I have now mainly established... official data that the number of persons reported is actually the same or the same in recent years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's no big difference to that part. The legal frameworks are also not an obstacle to sharper reasons, according to the applicant's explanation. According to the promoter, the social expected punishment. Namely, the penalties prescribed by the law are imposed by the courts under less than or below the legal minimum, i.e. subject to conditions. The proposed novel would jump to this by raising the minimum penalty measure, restricting judicial mitigation and the application of a conditional conviction or a direction towards a more uniform exploitation of the criminal frameworks. The basic weakness of such a solution is that it remains unknown real content and the severity of processed crime. It is possible, for example, that economic crimes are indeed a bug that is easier, and that those most large cases are not even the subject of the process we have seen in conversion and privatisation. The cleaning lady is being punished, it's been said that a large process is that some people in the car registration did it for 50 kuna, and what was stolen, where the entire property is, is not taken into account. Therefore, in such cases the proposed novels do not make sense. They don't make sense without that whole analytical approach from the number of crimes committed, police work, the work of the State's Attorney's Office, the work of the courts. The educational character of the proposed novel has been questioned according to the subject. The objectives from which it is taken are far faster, better and safer to achieve better and more thorough detection of criminal offences, their faster processing and greater involvement of state attorneys in achieving appropriate sanctions. So that's the path that leads to the fixation of the situation in this area. I will now also point out to you the important remarks of a particular nature, such as Article 1. An extension of the limitation period for the easiest crimes has no real reason. In fact, the question is how justified this is, given the possibility of a negotiated settlement of conflicts outside the criminal proceedings for a part of these crimes and respecting the circumstances that part of these crimes has a minimum criminal amount or is not at all present. Moreover, compared to old age, they are now united and even, indeed, the easiest, so on. criminal offences, e.g. for insults with other criminal acts that are significantly more difficult, for example for fraud. In view of this, it proposes to maintain the existing provisions of Article 19, since these are essentially dealt with by nothing. This also applies, these my remarks also refer to Article 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Croatian Penal Code has left out the category of significantly reduced numbers as unacceptable. Now, in the proposal, the form has been significantly reduced in numbers, and the small door is back. It is not acceptable for the same reason that the previously marked term was abandoned. So we've lifted one, and now we're going back in another form. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Prosecuting a long-term prison for a person under the age of 21 is a complex issue. We have to be objective. It deals with the Council of Europe in particular, and I will mention this to you the Council of Europe's 2003 recommendation on the new principles of dealing with juvenile delinquency and the role of justice for youth is referred to in point 11. It should mean a thorough consideration of the recommendation to ban this ban from the KZ without the Penal Code, without considering the provisions of juvenile legislation, is not acceptable. So we're going as a whole. The ban on driving vehicles is forever unacceptable, dangerous, excessive and unnecessary. Furthermore, it is an incorrect claim that the number of victims in transport is on the rise. On the contrary, although still unsatisfactory, he is in decline and according to official data we have from the Ministry of the Interior. The right acquired by criminal sanctions shall be withdrawn as appropriate, so as to enable the person against whom the corrections are applied to a positive extent. It means always and matter and that part and prevention isn't just about sanctioning... The management ban makes it impossible forever. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is extremely dangerous because a person affected by this drastic measure is demoted to do anything to manage without permission, and that is the ultimate... So we can get to another one up there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just being analytical about this situation. If the time of ban is already being legally extended to 10 years, then it really doesn't make sense yet and that extra term of retribution. If it's 10 years and then there's no need to go to this part of the seduction immediately. The content of the proposed provisions is unclear. First of all, it does not determine which crimes can be pronounced. It is logical that it is only a criminal offence to cause a car accident, not another crime against traffic safety. The proposed provision does not, then, distinguish between the inescapable and intentional forms of a criminal offence, which is another significant lack. Furthermore, part of the provision given his earlier conviction for crimes against traffic safety is unclear and undefined because it applies, for example, to sailors who were convicted 20 years ago for... The accident, so again and again, with a minimum speed overrun, runs into pedestrians who have been carelessly crossing the road or only the intentional forms of work, the same kind of traffic and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are the things where you should give a definitive answer. It is obvious that no Council of Europe sources have been consulted in drawing up this text, no comparative law has been proliferated, the provisions on the ban on driving vehicles forever for these and other reasons should be seen as an obvious error. Part of the text in the time, related to Article 12, part of the text in a time-related relationship with the criminal offence committed should be left out. He was taken over from international texts, but too high in terms of the whole content. And relevant to Article 14 of the Treaty on the Functioning Expansion of the circle of particularly protected persons is excessive. It should also be carefully considered and properly extended to the protection of police officers, military police and judicial officers in performing official duties. The subject matter provision is drawn up so that it is easy to see how it has escaped the control of the composers and such as is not at all appropriate for a serious critical analysis at all. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The criminal law of a serious murder should be amended and strengthened by the protection of persons protecting the fundamental rights of citizens and society. This must be arranged in a way appropriate to the provisions of such importance. The proposed text does not meet the minimum requirements for this. He is above all over the scope of having in mind the number of officials authorised to detect violations, controllers in the means of urban transport, parking attendants, agricultural, sanitary, water, construction, veterinary, numerous other inspectors... Enlargement with military personnel suggests that it is about a fifth of Croatia's employees, and you probably didn't want to do that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since my time is running out now, I'll proceed in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65138	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 3:00. HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. It's the 13th 29th hour. We continue with a session of discussions on the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65140	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code should undoubtedly be supported as a final proposal. Namely, the amendments in question and the amendments to the law complete the process of amending the criminal law as a systematic whole of the interrelated content within the framework of full judicial reform. In their entirety of this amendment and the addition of the regulations, they constitute a consistent development of one of the fundamental constitutional principles, as well as the principles of criminal law, which are that the regulation and application of repression are allowed within the limits of its necessity and must be appropriate to the dangers of protected values and goods. It is precisely in light of the development of this principle that the proposed legal institutes should be analysed, but certainly also the ratio of criminal repression as prescribed in the law on the one hand and how the courts apply it. So, fate power on the other hand. In fact, the legal repression consists of 3 elements. The first penalties prescribed for certain offences contained naturally in the catalogue of incrimination. It is the second of the other rules concerning punishment and the third of the application of the criminal legal institute of the general part of the Penal Code. All three elements represent one whole and can never be applied or seen separately, especially when we analyse certain forms of criminal conduct, or criminal liability for a particular type of criminal offence. In this context, it is necessary to support the changes made in relation to the proposed legal text, which relate to the tightening of sanctions related to the following offences. Therefore, both abuse of intoxicating drugs and illegal transfer of persons across the state border and criminal offences involving incriminations related to the protection of children and young people. Therefore, sexual relations with child, undermining, child exploitation and minors for pornography, meeting children with pornography and child pornography on the computer system and network. But, of course, the crimes that we therefore recognize under the names of the loan agreements, extortion and blackmail. Therefore, not only are the offences listed above recognised as particularly socially unacceptable and where they are protected values which, from a moral, social and legal point of view, represent categories which must be protected as necessarily as possible and in terms of giving appropriate criminal sanctions, but precisely criminal acts of drug dealing, drug trafficking, paedophilia, child pornography, greening sources are so many evils of human suffering and socially unacceptable behaviour that they become a problem that needs to be resolutely and to which they should be resolutely opposed at all levels. The criminal material right of these amendments provides a footing and a basis for the adequate application of criminal sanctions. Furthermore, by increasing the specific measures laid down below for a certain number of criminal offences and by limiting the possibility of easing the penalties prescribed so far, as well as the distinction between the legal mitigation of changes in the limits of such mitigations in relation to the solutions so far represents an absolutely acceptable solution to the harmonisation of the prescribed and applied criminal repression against the perpetrators of criminal offences and, in particular, the most serious criminal offences, which, through this means, is, of course, the strengthening of the repression itself. It is in this sense or in a very exposed sense that two things should be highlighted. The first is, an analysis of the case law has shown that the judicial selection of a criminal offence is not conditioned by the prescribed most strictly prescribed measure but rather by the contrary. The maximum number of penalties imposed is closer to the specific minimum than the maximum, and only the mitigation of penalties is based on the minimum prescribed penalty for a certain offence. Secondly, the same very important results of the examination of the public's point of view just now suggest that the public believes that penalties have been imposed against the perpetrators of mild, unjustly mild, and not too mildly prescribed penalties. Therefore, criticism in this respect is not directed towards mildness in the law of prescribed penalties, but at those penalties which courts in concrete situations and apply. Furthermore, when we talk about economic crime and when we analyse the proposed solutions, the following needs to be pointed out. In accordance with the commitments made under the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption, they have been prescribed and have thus become an integral part of the criminal law of the following criminal offences that we clearly place in the criminal offences of economic crime or crime. It's also taking bribes in economic business, giving bribes in economic business. The criminal offence of anti-legislative business has also been amended, and corrections have been made in criminal offences of tax evasion and other taxation as well as of unconscious economic business. In this context, it should be pointed out that there is not a single obligation in this segment of criminal material law to comply according to international legal documents. On the other hand, objections related to limitation periods should absolutely be rejected by looking at them through the application of two basic principles of criminal law, which are the principle of the application of a milder law, and thus also the obligation to impose minor penalties, and, of course, the principle of banning the retroactivity of criminal repression. And as previous discussions have shown, of course, the reform of criminal material law went into two stages. It should also be pointed out that it is already mentioned, so the first priority stage itself was the amendments and the additions of the Penal Code were limited, but first of all to the following elements. So the alignment of the Penal Code with the international obligations taken over. Then rejuvenations in respect of freedom of the media and criminal-legal repression for violation of honor and reputation, then rejuvenations on any changes in the incrimination of possession and ban on intoxicating drugs, then judgments on the justification of interventions in the criminal offences of economic crime. And of course judgments on the urgent change in criminal-law repression in criminal offences with an element of violence against the environment, human health, payment security and business. In the second phase, therefore, it is necessary to highlight the changes that concerned, i.e. security measures in terms of legal intervention, in order to make preventive action more effective, etc. Special prevention, then the extension of deadlines, then the changes relating to the crimes of economic crime, then the tightening of repression against corruption, changes in relation to the incrimination of organised crime and the criminal protection of police officers in the conduct of their affairs. And certainly in that segment should also highlight those incriminations that relate to forced payment of fines. When we look at both phases, we can indeed conclude that this Penal Code, or the Final Proposal of the Penal Code, is the completion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia project in terms of achieving the objective of systematic policy. So systematic policies to reduce and combat crime by criminal material law, as an instrument to protect fundamental constitutional values, human rights and freedoms in line with the most powerful standards for universal opposition to all forms of crime. And it is in this sense that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65141	Thank you. The HSS club, the respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65142	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So here, despite the prime minister's assurance that Croatia is the safest country in Europe, despite the boasting of the interior minister about the excellent and successful police work, which the fortress is found in armed accounts, as well as the murders of persons suspected of belonging to the criminal mileage of the Republic of Croatia feel insecure, and it is generally believed that crime is on the rise. The interior ministry's data will try to defuse the general impression, but of course it won't work. The fact is that in Croatia, muggings, muggings, cars flying into the air, happenings are expected, citizens are brutally beaten, victims of cameras, lenders and racketeeres and various frauds, that their rights to work are violated, that corruption is infected with every segment of economic social and political life in Croatia. The perpetrators don't reveal themselves or generally don't reveal themselves. And if they are revealed, there is no guarantee that they will be punished righteously, nor that the punishment will be done. It is in that fact that there is an answer to the question of how 2,000 177 criminal charges were received in Croatia, while in Slovenia 3 thousand 869, in Italy 3 thousand 865, in Hungary 4 thousand 144, and in Austria 7 thousand 274 criminal charges. It could be concluded from that data that we are the most honest people in our environment. We will not doubt that, but we must not close our eyes to the fact that there are those with us who are prone to criminal acts and commit crimes. Has every crime been reported? I'm sure he didn't. It is very indicative that the number of criminal offences reported in the last 3 years is less than in 2001, and in 2004, 3.3% of adult patients were reported less than a year ago. These are the data that the applicant gives us in the context of the proposal. The applicant wrongly places a sign of equality between the offences reported and the offences committed. What's the reason for not reporting? The main reason is the lack of confidence in the functioning of the rule of law. The reason is also the fear of retaliating the perpetrator who quickly receives information about the identity of the applicant. The perpetrator feels so secure that he dares to threaten the applicant, including his family. It is hard to believe that something like this is happening in the countries of the European Union. We have no record of how many criminal offences have been reported, and that nothing has been done in years apart from receiving the application. How will the citizens trust the police whose first man, the minister, using his position to remove the order from the record and thus cover up both the crime and the perpetrator? How many random crashes in Croatia are down the stairs and still drunk? The fact is that there is crime in Croatia and that it is difficult to deal with. By public assessment, it's unsuccessful. With the aim of reducing and curbing crime, we are entering the fifth amendments and additions to the Penal Code. The main feature of the change is the tightening of repression and the extension of outdated deadlines. The lower specific measures of the prescribed penalties for a certain number of criminal offences are being increased, and so far the possibilities for easing such penalties are limited by the distinction between legal and judicial mitigation. Based on the reasons for such changes, the Proposer is calling for a case-law that shows that the lower penalties have been excessively imposed closer to the minimum and remain maximum. The Proposer considers that by prescribing more rigorous penalties, it will prevent the imposition of inappropriately mild penalties for individual offences. We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party advocate a fair and rigorous punishment for the perpetrators of serious crimes, from this aspect we do not object to the regulation of a more rigorous punishment. The individualisation of penalties requires a certain range between the highest and lowest penalties, bearing in mind and in the general section of the Penal Code it is quite clear that in fact it depends on the Judge, or the Judicial Council, whether an appropriate and just punishment will be imposed which will have both an educational and repressive effect. In this measurement significant that I do not say a crucial role have easy and difficult circumstances. They are valued by the Judge, or the Judicial Council. Is their evaluation even? It's not. Valuation is different and it's our reality. If we keep in mind that we are living in a society of eroded social and moral values, that the scale of values is ruined then we should not be surprised that we are experiencing objectively difficult circumstances being valued or qualified as easy. All the skill of qualified fact shows the case of a forest. The owner of the forest also reported a criminal act and the perpetrator who, by the way, does not have a single square millimeter of land and let alone forests. It's a proven act. No doubt the unsub was identified, even confessed. However, the competent state attorney says there are no elements for prosecution because the perpetrator did not know that the forest was owned by the applicant. The same argument also gives the judge in acquittal on private charges. So it is undeniable that the perpetrator committed the crime of theft, but as I say he did not know that he committed it in the forest of Petar Petrovic and not in the forest of Marko Markovic, responsibility for the crime of theft is released. He's a state's attorney today, and the judge is a judge today. While the level of value courts is like this, no changes and additions to the Penal Code will guarantee a fair and appropriate sentence. There is no uniform court practice in Croatia. Although judicial practice is not a source of law, it requires equality for the sake of the legal certainty of every citizen. Furthermore, we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party also support more rigorous penalties for the criminal offences of economic crime, but this is a delayed measure to punish the perpetrators who committed the worst crimes in the privatisation process. The mistake was made long ago in 1997 when those acts reduced the obstacles and the deadlines were reduced. However, this Parliament has made clear conclusions whose implementation would take away the unlawful property benefit and repeal the unlawfully concluded share transfer contracts, but these conclusions are not implemented. No illegal privatisations have been annulled, no confiscation of illegally acquired assets, no satisfaction for those who are victims of these illegalities, and these are all those who daily honor employment institutions. With that in mind, we question the existence of a true will to combat economic crime. We also welcome the rigorous punishment of bribery and corruption, but it is a long way from the perpetrator to the punishment and execution of punishment. On the optimistic assumption that, in time, a criminal offence is reported, that the perpetrator is identified, that the judiciary knowingly does its part of the work and gives a fair and appropriate criminal measure remains the issue of execution of the sentence of course. In Croatia, prisons are full and in time presses have informed us of thousands of those who have been sentenced to prison, the sentences are powerful, but there is no room for execution in prisons. So only amendments to the Penal Code will prevent crime in the Republic of Croatia. It's only one segment significant but insufficient. Furthermore, we are surprised that the proposer did not take into account the findings of both the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy and this Assembly, as well as the strategy to combat drug abuse. Both the findings and the strategy point out the need to amend the Penal Code in order to replace convicts, drug addicts who have committed crimes in the area of drug abuse with a mandatory treatment measure in therapeutic communities authorised by the Ministry of Justice and by programmes approved by the same ministry. In a number of cases, such a measure is expected to achieve the goal of punishment. We therefore propose to the Government that, with its own amendment, it removes the failure made. And in the end, we want to resume. In addition to amendments and additions to the Penal Code, it is necessary to take other measures in order to create conditions for timely reporting of criminal offences, quick detection of perpetrators, quick and effective processing, fair punishment and successful execution of penalties. That is why people who have clear views on the social and moral values of this society who are moral and professional rather than just similar are absolutely necessary. Only then will citizens' confidence in the functioning of the rule of law be restored, then the senses of hopelessness that citizens today are burdened with will disappear. Only then will there be room for optimism and faith in successful crime control in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65143	Thank you. At 15.10, it was time for a single debate on this agenda point. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65144	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the Penal Code, i.e. the final text, are referred to as the conclusion of a major reform. I think these changes and additions are run in the right direction and that they should be accepted as such. But the big reform of the criminal justice system is hard to say. Some of the provisions to be amended, individual incriminations for which penalties are changed, are mainly about that. They were taken out of the Penal Code. The free assessment of the applicants estimated that these are the works which at the moment are the most burdensome of Croatian society, which makes citizens feel most threatened and insecure and insecure, and in that part is the increased repression which is acceptable, on which the applicant, the Government has the right to assess such an assessment but I do not think that this can be assessed by a revolutionary reform that will do everything necessary at this time in the Croatian judiciary and especially in the criminal section. The main intensities of the promoters are the first modernisation and alignment with European Union regulations and with the current situation in society. Unfortunately, what's changed here could be considered more like a crime stunt. Crime is always a step ahead of us. I don't know if it's like that anywhere in the world, but it's obvious with us. Criminals are always a step forward and we always respond to their actions. We will never come up with a system, we will never come up with a proposal, we will never come up with measures that could act in a preventive way and stop this flood of crime under which Croatia is located. The second basic intensity is more child and family protection by repression again. Okay. Children and family, especially children in the context of crimes done to them to harm them, should in any case be protected by repression such as or even greater, whatever. But the question is whether it will solve the problem, whether a parent who does not care about his child does not pay child support, whether after three months or how long he predicts this bill in prison, whether he will start paying for the alimony. So far, a fine for such an act has been provided. Of course, that non-paying parent proved all the time that he didn't have the money, so he didn't pay, and the fine was completely unsuspecting. In this situation, I'm afraid he won't know what to do, especially when we know what's going on in prison and how long he's waiting to go to jail. That kid's gonna get to adulthood sooner. A number of minimum penalties for serious crimes have been prevented by justifying that court practice is such that courts are mainly serving minimum sentences and for the most serious criminal offences by finding, in addition to these minimum penalties, various leeway circumstances which actually benefit criminals and people who have committed such acts in some way. I think this is a good move, a move actually that will make it impossible for the court to impose an inappropriate punishment upon which the public is disgusted. And it's not so much a problem that the public is disgusted than people feel definitely threatened. If a man who killed his own father gets two years in prison, it definitely expands the atmosphere of mistrust in the rule of law and the atmosphere in fact that citizens feel unprotected by the state, the hand they pay and pay to protect them. The fourth intensities are that in some situations where it has not been the case until now, procedures have been initiated under official duty, especially when it comes to criminal offences at the expense of children. I think it's just as good an intensity and you shouldn't think about it at all. It was not up to now to think about such a thing, so children were not alone as such damaged by the fact that someone committed a crime to their harm, the whole society was damaged, and the entire society and the future of that society were threatened. Strengthening repression is one way to prevent crime, but it is not uniform. Namely, self-repression and bringing it to the limit of absurdity doesn't necessarily mean what. The repression and other social measures need to be found in a fine balance that would give a rat’s tail on the one hand, and on the other hand break down social circumstances that favour the committing of crime. In the opening part of the discussion, that is to say, the question of life imprisonment and the problem of theoretical and practical what to do now if society decides to go to prison for life, the proposer makes pretty convincing arguments that life imprisonment actually makes no sense because in all world legislation and ours would probably accept such a solution if they accepted a life sentence. The sentence of life in prison is, in fact, pardoned or otherwise adjudicated after a certain number of years and when there is already a long-term prison sentence, and there is a long-term prison sentence, 40 years is perfectly enough to achieve that measure that is to be achieved, i.e. That such a person who is dangerous to society doesn't show up outside anymore. The choice of individual changes that we think are significant. In Article 114, which speaks of the violation of the right to work, no penalty as the lower than the money is still prescribed. We don't think that's good. We think it is a criminal act that definitely endangers the interests of Croatian citizens and that there should also be a lower sentence in prison. Article 209 refers to the violation of the maintenance duty. A lower minimum sentence as a prison sentence is prescribed, but as I say in the prison system that we have had the opportunity to learn from the report of the vacancy attorney and when we know the fact of how long it takes to serve large prison sentences, then the punishment of a few months for a parent who definitely neglects his obligation to take care of his child does not seem particularly harsh. The interest rate agreements referred to in Article 233 also raised the minimum impediment, in fact to an appropriate level. But the problem is how to catch these people? According to all the banners, according to all the records, according to Karlovac, Zagreb, Sisak, where I've been around hundreds of such ads lately "please answer the phone, you'll get a loan like this." You know who's behind it and how these loans get paid back. Often with physical attacks and broken legs. The police can't do anything and the state's attorney can't do anything because there's got to be solid evidence or a contract concluded, and whoever makes the deal won't complain anymore. At least in American movies, and I'm guessing there are services like these dressed in civilian uniforms that report to these kind of criminal ads and catch criminals in the act. I don't know why, why our services can't do that. There may be some obstacle to our legal regulations. But if there is one, it needs to be abolished. The proposal for amending and supplementing the Law also prescribes other security measures. One is psychiatric treatment. The second is the ban on performing certain tasks in which a person has committed a criminal offence and the third is a ban on driving a motor vehicle. So far, it has been possible to impose a ban on motor vehicle management for a certain period of time. It is proposed that in the event of a recurrence of a criminal offence with fatal consequences, the prohibition may be so said forever. If there's no life sentence, and she's not there, I don't know if it's entirely consistent with constitutional provisions. Is it possible to say such a measure forever? I understand the justification. There are, of course, people who have already committed traffic crimes. Who will commit new ones. Which would be best if they never got to sit behind the wheel or the front seat of the car. I don't know if it's possible to do this, but if it's possible to perform it, I don't see any reason why, in this second security measure, a ban on performing an activity, let's say medically. A man who once did an evil deed with a fatal consequence will do it a second time and will do it the third time. If a ban on a certain life sentence is already being imposed, a certain job of driving a car or something else I don't see why it can't be done in this place as well? Of course, the consequences of the prolonged, logical consequences of increased penalties are also longer obsolete. Longevity should be commended. Too bad it wasn't introduced before. That some crimes, especially those committed in privatisation, can still be processed today, which, unfortunately, is no longer possible today. It is also important to mention a reduction in the possibility of mitigation. This, by reducing the possibility of mitigation, sounds like this naive phrase, but I think it will have a significant impact on the sense of trust in the court on the one hand and on the other hand on the inability to put pressure on the courts. If the possibility of mitigation is gone, then it's gone. So far, there has been a broad possibility of judicial mitigation. It was used in processes in significant numbers. The Lord God knows whether it's just free judgment or under pressure. If such an option is reduced and social circumstances obviously do not lie to be reduced and this pressure will decrease. What is missing in these changes and additions is the incrimination, the modern incrimination of economic crime. What has been in the text for a long time in this form and form, there are modern forms of economic crime that are not covered here, and this will need to be done with some next reform obviously. Tax avoidance, tax... is inside and prevented minimum penalties have also been increased and some special cases are listed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a crime that is of extreme danger to society always and everywhere and every society in the world thinks it's one of the most serious crimes for a simple reason if a criminal cheats on me then cheats on me personally. If he cheats on taxes, he cheats on all schools, all kindergartens, all roads, all hospitals and each one of us individually. All the countries in the world are persecuting those crimes with every possible force. I don't know that I've heard that someone in Croatia has been severely punished in the last few years. Especially not jail time. There's no glory in there for fascism. Proposers say it will be found in a special law. We've been waiting for that law for two and a half, three years. Maybe we'll meet him. All in all a proposal that can be accepted, a proposal that goes in the right direction, but a proposal that is definitely not a reform of the criminal justice system at least not one that would allow us to spend some time peacefully from that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65145	Thank you. Club of HSU respected representative Josip Sudec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65146	Ladies and gentlemen, we expected far broader amendments and additions to the law. However, this selective approach is a hit in the srid. Is this the rest we haven't solved for this? We'll settle for a year and a half towards the dynamics we have ahead of us. We think this alignment is good. That it fits into the National Strategy for the Development of the Judicial Authority that we have adopted here and the National Anti-Corruption Programme. I'm sorry there's no such thing as a colleague before me listed modern crimes from an area of economic or economic crime that is one step ahead of us again. But it still doesn't hurt us that much, so I guess in a year and a half or three years, we'll be rid of it. This alignment is a difference between law theory and court practice. This seeks to force court practice to interpret the law more or more widely and to make courts more concerned and theoretical issues of punishment, consequences and so on. I want a lot of success on this plan. I want these three to unite as much as possible in the criminal policy of the Republic of Croatia. We welcome stricter penalties and believe that they will act not only on criminal-legal repression but primarily deter criminal acts. So, have a preventive character. The problem is in the excerpt of legal criminal policy and its judicial application, and this is evident in the legislator's desire to apply the spirit and letter of law. And now the letter of the law is always easier to apply than the spirit. The spirit is quite unstable and is understood from government to government, and it should represent legal theory and practice. Therefore, a certain crime should be known or applied not only to the letter of the law but also to the spirit of the law. If we're going to succeed, and how much we're going to succeed, I think we're going to feel it soon. The deadlines of antiquity are expanding. We particularly welcome the sanctioning of the unlawfully acquired asset benefit in economic business. I'm sorry it's applied in advance, not backwards. What Pero Kovacevic said here, the cat fell. However, if there is a future, it means that the property is being taken away is a major advance because we finally passed it. In practice, it is also necessary to resolve the problem of weather application, to make judgmental power more efficient and effective. Obsolescence should also be resolved by other laws because a different image of action is obtained as if the rule of law does not work enough because everyone thinks that by amending and supplementing the Penal Code we are now solving the entire area. The law on criminal and civil proceedings should be applied urgently, where we should act in such a way as to end the proceedings within the deadlines set out in the strategy. It is unacceptable for the case to walk from one court to another several times, and no one to judge metrically. Processes take 10 or more years, and I think it's high time to say that some things have to be solved and different. You'd say my grandson was different, wouldn't you? We suggest that items less value than payments due to non-payment of television subscription, wrong parking, etc. It chokes the vessels, and it could be dealt with in other ways, and even other organs can be dealt with. And by doing so, it should be faster and more effective to protect it. We particularly welcome the amendments submitted here on the protection of children and families. We therefore support these amendments and additions to the Penal Code and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65147	Thank you. Now we're going to individual debates. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65148	When it comes to amending this Penal Code, I'd like to say that he is primarily an indicator of the functioning of the judiciary, because when the judiciary doesn't judge, then we raise the lower limit of punishment, or we raise the deadlines and everything on that stand, that's how it's going to be this time. No improvement in the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences will be due to these amendments to the law, but much more needs to be done. It will take a lot more to do because it is not only a matter of law, so the colleague Ingrid on behalf of the club said here that there is much that is not qualified in this law as a criminal offence, and of course it was difficult to judge for something that does not exist in the Penal Code. However, judges in Croatia do not judge even for years what exists as a criminal offence because they are mostly incompetent, unprofessional, unprofessionally doing their job. But on the other hand, it's not my assessment but the Transparenci International and most citizens in this country have a very high probability of judicial corruption. I'm going to say a little bit about the increased sentences for paedophiles some here have said earlier that it will be important to help punish those who are doing a crime to the harm of a child and that they will protect children. This is how an increase in the lower limit will send a message that the government is thinking about the problem as well. However, many other things will need to be changed to protect children when they are abused. First yes, absolutely I'll say which. First it's about art. In Croatia, there is no education for warlocks dealing with child art until there is a narrow circle of witches, or rather one expert who, according to some information that I have and more than half of the cases in Zagreb courts get into art, which is absolutely not good because there is an open space for which one expert gets such a large number of cases in art as opposed to others who may also be more educated for this problem. Second. It is often sought in the actions of witches who will say that the child is not abused, and if in some cases I am familiar with by witches it is said that the child is abused, then it is required to outwit those people who have never trained abused children. And of course, the whole case falls into the water and our rise, or your lower limits mean nothing because the person concerned is freed. What we will do with the behaviour of the Supreme Court, which, therefore, reduces the fines of those judges who professionally perform their work often often and the highest possible penalty for paedophiles most often, often reduces, often lags. So it's not the law itself, it's the justice problem and the law enforcement. For example, in Slovenia, judges who are aware of how much the victim of a child who was abused long ago agreed to give the most possible punishment under the law. Well, our parents often uttered the lowest punishment they could. So much for their consciousness and their relationship to the children. You know where other cases of abused children fall into the water. In an untimely process of the child. The moment a child admits to being sexually abused, the moment the child talks about it, when it is reported to the competent institutions in most cases becomes difficult even for several months to do a good job. In recent times, only a few cases have been carried out professionally in the way it has been prescribed in the last amendments during the former Government in the Law on Juvenile Courts, which is that at the time when a child is said to have been abused at the same time, an artificial act is done in such a way that everyone in the child's testimony is involved and that the child cannot be questioned more than three times. Unfortunately, we still have the practice of questioning the child more than seven times. After such abuse of an additional child and an additional traumatized child, you can no longer receive any testimony. Not to say that there are other situations where children can and can be manipulated, so the pressure on the child on the other hand and the contamination of his testimony is also very likely and possible. How are we going to prosecute pedophiles when a person who has proven to be a cover-up in the state's attorney's office is still sitting on a case of abuse in Bezovica? Unfortunately, the State Attorney's Council did not have enough professional insight and responsibility to temporarily remove such a person from the work of the State's Attorney's Office. People who should be persecuting sexual abusers work to cover up the whole case often. That way, with people like that, unprofessional, unethical, it's hard to move anything like this to the better. When it comes to the subject of sexual child abuse, I would only like to draw one conclusion. In this country, such an act can be condemned, and most often convicted people who have no status in society, poor people. Doctors, lawyers, diplomats, entrepreneurs, respected people are largely not convicted. The first sentence that such men say to their wives when they go to report abuse of their own child says just go, I'll get a lawsuit, I won't be convicted, I'll even get a child, because you know that I can, I have money, I have connections. I'm going to a little economic crime where the situation is no different. And in economic crime today, it's become normal for a part of the people that the bank doesn't have to be robbed. It's still with those that function at the primitive level of the rifle, stockings on the head. In those slightly smarter ones, the bank is stolen legally by the court's decision as in the case of "Rock." There are even judges when she came out, when your proposal for the Penal Code came out in public, even the judges warned that you lacked that provision by which such a matter could be punished. All those who have done so in the justice system are protected and there is no way that you can persecute them at the moment if they make a decision that is socially harmful. Unfortunately, how do you fight crime when the Croatian judiciary today comes down to three judicial names that can be tried in Croatia? Igor Saric in Rijeka and two other judges in Zagreb. You don't have everything else. So, as soon as it's a little bit more firepower, you'd say, or a harder case, then you have three people you can trust with such objects. In such a small number of professional, responsible and professional judges, there is no fight against crime. And changes to the law in this form absolutely mean nothing. Unfortunately, in this country, criminals walk. Only if it can come under the influence of the law and a good judicial decision, for example An 84-year-old grandmother who ended up in prison for not paying for electricity. Criminals and thieves are walking all over our cities, but an 84-year-old girl gets an orderly conviction and ends up in jail for unpaid electricity. The more the judge says, the lady had the possibility of a complaint, she didn't write a complaint. She's 84 years old. And finally, very briefly about the alimony. Nothing's gonna change there either. Unfortunately, all 200 thousand parents who do not receive alimony, or rather children who have the right to this alimony, will not receive it in the future. There's been a prison sentence so far. The courts didn't say it. Parts of the Family Law that should help to collect alimony are also not applicable. Therefore, government gentlemen, there is no problem in laws, the problem is in application, the problem is in an inefficient system that can neither be dealt with by crime nor by a thief, nor by those who do not comply with their obligations to children.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65149	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65150	A colleague has incorrectly stated that only three judges in the Croatian state can judge in some more fiery proceedings. I could count countless. And this is an insult to fellow judges, because both Split and Sibenik and Zadar and Dubrovnik where I was as a lawyer there are excellent, first-class, fair, fair, high-level judges who can judge everyone, even the most difficult processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65151	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65152	I would also say this if it weren't true that only three judges in Croatia are able to conduct quality trials without asking what you've given us, what judges. And I wonder what country you're talking about? What's the name of this country?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65153	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65154	Yeah, I think there's at least room here for ideological accounting. When it comes to sexual abuse of children, I'm glad to see these obstructed penalties increasing. But please, nice, sexual intercourse with a child or rape, there's a range of the least prevented sentences for three years, at least. Then we're 5 years old, 8 years old. For three years, it's colloquial and forgive me for all those concerned. For three years, it's for a simple rape of a child. Five years for a humiliating rape. Please, what kind of rape is not generally humiliating? And what happens when we talk about raping a child? So that's a five-year minimum sentence. And if a child dies in rape, then the sentence of eight years is prevented. My proposal is for all types of child rape, or sexual exploitation to be a long-term prison, to be as long as can be imagined as the lowest possible punishment. And more and more is welcome. And this, I don't know, it's really hard to talk without emotion here without anyone getting hurt. But bidding with the form of rape is... Rape from mere to the aftermath of death is terrible for me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And by the way, rape is scheduled for a minimum sentence of three years. And also for rape, I mean in adults, and I'm not saying that for three years, it's also a minimum punishment with the possibility that I know more. I think it's simple, especially when it comes to children, difficult to accept. Indeed, that kind of maniac, a lunatic, needs to be removed from society for as long a time as possible, not to mention those who get out of jail and do the same thing again. In the United States of America, the same piece of work has been remanded for three times in a lifetime, and it was a car break-in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65155	Replica response, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65156	Well, maybe I should go with this last thing my colleague Jurovic said about the U.S. and their punishments. In the United States, fellow Jurovic, the lowest punishment for paedophiles is 15 years because Americans have calculated that they actually need a period during which such people go through psychotherapy in prison and after getting out more than 80 and some percent of people no longer repeat the child abuse procedure. Unfortunately, we don't even have psychotherapy, people can go to jail, but nobody does psychotherapy with these people, and they definitely need it. And on the other hand, when it comes to child rape and prison rape, I absolutely don't think there's a man in this country who wouldn't want every child molester locked up on the longest possible prison sentence. However, it is also a fact that often times the State's Attorney's Office, what is a pure rape of a child is qualified as a fornication shop and therefore a large number of cases fall into obsolescence. And as for a child who's been abused, she'd just like to say something, those children killed alive, their traumas are life-long.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65157	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This legal proposal is more interesting about what's not in it than what's written here. According to what is not in it, it is evident that the proponent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not clearly recognise any phenomenon in society as a social danger or perhaps as a social hazard but does not want to sanction it. He won't, he won't! Persistent requests, warnings from the representatives that such behaviours in this society are dangerous and unacceptable. There you go, for example. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, So he says that the protection of wages can also be achieved without criminal coercion, which is the ultimate means of protecting the value because it is prescribed as a punishable act of violation of the Labour Act. So the failure to pay the workers doesn't seem to be such a serious act that it should be prosecuted, that it should be there in the Criminal Code and the workers as it is for them, so whoever doesn't pay their wages will be punished. You can think of punishment! And probably what kind of court practice he might get a fine of 300 kuna. So why should he pay the workers now? What is his motive, and what is the obstacle to punishment, or attitude toward such a man? But I'm more interested in what the government's position is, what is the proposalant's position. Which motivates him to reason that he does not consider it necessary in the Penal Code to punish those who do not pay the workers. Governments do not need such protection, the prime minister and ministers are paid regularly. What do they care about the workers, what if they now care about the workers and those who don't pay them are being prosecuted. Why? There's no government interest in that. But I'm surprised when she's warned at her first reading by the SDP club, that she doesn't respect that remark, so maybe the government didn't think of it, but when the others tell her to get it into the Penal Code, we protect the extra workers, we send the one who doesn't pay his salary to jail, and see if he doesn't pay them. That's what the government won't do. The government doesn't like it, and the government says it's enough to prosecute. A colleague, Ingrid, has already talked about what is not here, about a crime of abuse of faith. Why would it be necessary to bring it? Well, not for academic, theoretical reasons, because I don't know it as a university professor or perhaps even for comparative reasons, because it exists in Italy, in other countries of Europe, but because it is necessary in Croatia. Because this very form of abuse of trust often happens again at the expense of the poorest workers. How? The man is in charge, he's in charge of his company, he doesn't pay off, he doesn't pay off his creditors, he goes into bankruptcy, but before that, he pulls out the property, the workers are out of work, and it happens all the time. And why are we protecting them now? For what? I don't understand. Who's in the interest of such con men being protected? I've been thinking and thinking, and I can't figure out what the government is going to do to keep them from going after them like that. Why did they grow so close to your heart? For what? You owe them something so you pay them back? So tell that the public knows. Because if you don't owe them, if you don't have to pay them back and get it into the Penal Code to send them to jail, not us, but the courts. I don't understand why you won't do it! We warned about it at the first reading, so if you missed it, then it happened to be missed, but when you were warned, you will not, nor will you. And my colleague Ingrid has every right to say, no matter how many of those who created them can be expected to punish them now. No, that would be really illogical. And all of our cries, all of our requests that the Government still respect these demands and that, together through this House, through the amendment of this Penal Code, we stand upon the tail, and perhaps even on the head, the Government refuses. So you're protecting them still. Another crime that may not exist in other countries, the abuse of voter trust, should be introduced into the Penal Code. Because look what's going on here. This is where your voters go to the polls, for example. to the locals, choose some power, and then someone else buys mandates, buys and wins power beyond the voter's will. The minister signs such a single trade agreement. In Sisak, you now have the authority of Pintarić who did it because of material initiatives. He immediately increased his salary twice and all those who helped him with the election scam. So, people, darling, are we going to stimulate these phenomena? We're going to look at these people through our fingers, are we going to encourage them to do this, or, brother, in the Penal Code, are we going to write that abuse of voter trust and play their electoral will, their constitutional right? Is that a crime? So when we put one of those Pintarics in jail, when we put one of the Ministers of Vukelic in jail for signing the contract, then I guess that won't happen again. Or maybe they will with extremely rude people, but I'm sure there'll be fewer. I'm sure there'll be fewer. Now, let's let the Proposer tell me, and why won't he? What's wrong with the proposer now that he respects the voter's will? Where's the logic? Which means the proposal was led to stimulate the purchase of mandates because it will not be punished, it will not be described as a criminal offence. And in the end, but what is being protected? What's special about protecting himself? The judges are being protected. They are so impeccable, they are perfect, they need no criticism, and especially no criticism from the public, and the proposer will certainly not evict paragraphs 2 and 3 from Article 309. Despite that. What is opposed to the European Convention for the Protection of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in point 10.1., in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Despite the fact that the existing Penal Code described in Article 309(1) describes the coercion of a judicial officer who is clearly prohibited and must be prohibited. But the proposer will not respect the position of the European Court of Human Rights, the practice of that court. That the statement, that commenting in the public court proceedings did not force a judicial official. Because please, what kind of judge can't stand a newspaper article. If he can't make an impartial verdict because someone in the paper wrote or didn't write it, he can't be a judge. It's an immature person then. So it's the State Judicial Council if the rebellion is to be resolved immediately. Tell him, man, mature and then you'll be a judge. Judges are public figures and they act in the protection of the law, they must act by law and in the protection of public interests. And their work must also be subject to the court of the public as the work of any other public person. But the promoter obviously thinks that our judges are phenomenal, even those who judge the case... And there's a judge who runs from the scene of the accident, and today he's a judge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Traffic accidents. And today he's a judge. She's no longer debated, now she's investigative. I'm asking you how will he conduct an investigation into a car accident against someone who escaped from the scene of an accident when he himself as a judge did it? What kind of investigation is he going to conduct? But you can't say that about him right now. You can't say that in public because it's a coercion against a judicial officer. Well, I'm sorry that the motioner did not make good proposals from Parliament. But what can we do? What a government like that and a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65159	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65160	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I must already not know how many times to correct here in this assembly the quote, this time fellow Stazic. It is incorrect that the current mayor, Mr Pintaric, bought power and deceived everyone. It is true that two SDP articles, a councilman dissatisfied with the work of the party in Sisak and then Mayor Vidovic, voted in confidence with Mayor Vidovic, and then Mr Pintaric received power.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65161	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65162	Mr. President, first of all, I must say that I agree with this part of my fellow Stazic, that the proposal was based on the addition of Article 114. The KZ shall also introduce a criminal offence in respect of the failure to pay workers. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. But a colleague of Stazić's bar is your proposal addressed in the proposals and opinions given on the bill, which the promoter did not accept. I've got an even worse situation, I've made a proposal to protect the whistles, so the worker who reports corruption. It's not even here that I made that proposal, so it comes out like I wasn't saying it. And there's also a phonogram and it's a very important part because when we start up and now we're back in the procedure of the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, which is about the protection of workers, it means the protection of whistles, and then the government tells us about how it should be in the Penal Code. I suggest he be included in the Penal Code, and he's not even here. At least you're lucky your proposal was put here that it was and that it wasn't accepted. Mine was like it wasn't, and I gave it to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65163	Replica. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65164	Don't be surprised that the government didn't lead you into this argument. It would be a little too much to admit publicly, since your proposal also concerned workers' rights. It would be a little too much to admit, even on two occasions, that she doesn't care about the rights of workers. Well, isn't it enough that she admitted it in this article 114 that she said what we care about the workers, the people of God? Well, they're not here to protect workers' rights. So don't be so naive to your colleague Kovacevic. Therefore, it is quite logical that they have received your proposal as well as the SDP's proposal. Because that's what it is, according to the same interpretation that Pintaric, who had fewer votes and for which the citizens did not, was voted legally by the mayor. It's the same interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65165	Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65166	You say, fellow Stazic, that you are surprised that the applicant did not accept the SDP Club's proposal to incriminate the non-payment of salaries to the worker and you are surprised at the government's argument that there will be better protection by criminal penalties. But here the explanation is even stranger. Namely, the promoter says it is unnecessary to incriminate workers' wages as a criminal offence when the crime is already a right to pay. So, we're content with pure abstraction, but that's not even known to exist in the law, and I can say that this will create a serious problem of what kind of nomotechnical law is, and that's the Penal Code, almost the ultimate law of a country. Please, here's an example. Article 5 states that something will be brought into line with the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, so a law that has long since been in force. So please, who writes these laws? So pay attention to your writer that in 2001 the Penal Code was passed in Croatia. There is no law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. This Article 5, and such nomotechnical pearls are filled with this Law, a proposal. You didn't correct what was in the novelt's proposal. You have a situation that a qualified form is milder punished than a basic form.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65167	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. I'm sorry. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65168	Thank you very much. You are right, colleague Antičević Marinović, when you say that the right to earn money, so whoever deprives the right to earn money cannot possibly be the same person who does not pay the worker's salary. The right to earn comes before the right to pay. So the workman who hasn't paid his salary he's earned the right to earn, he's consumed his right to earn a profit, only he's not getting paid. That difference he consumed his right, therefore it was not broken. When he doesn't get paid, he's not in violation of the right to earn. You're right, and you're not... Well, you see, the government certainly doesn't understand, even though I doubt it doesn't understand because it's not hard to understand, but the government is not going to bring it into the law on purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government is being warned to bring it into the law. He won't, and he won't explain why he won't. So what are the workers of this country so guilty of? So that they resented them so much that they would not take them for protection even when their wages were due.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65169	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65170	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is this stage, the second phase of reform of the judicial system as it is within the time limit, as the government has suggested, which points out that only systematic resolution can result in the prevention and reduction of crime, i.e. crimes. In addition to this system, the Law on Infringements should also be highlighted, the laws needed in the system itself in order to give full and indicative effective protection the fruit of the Criminal Procedure Act, so the Law on the Police and, of course, what we want to highlight is that system that needs to be completed. In particular, I would point out that this approach and the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code are first seen and puts some sanctions to be tightened, i.e. to raise the lower specific measures and to raise specific upper measures or penalties. What should be particularly highlighted is precisely the desire to protect against a modern evil, which is the abuse of intoxicating drugs where it is almost at the core of how and in what way to sharpen criminal repression, how and how it should really increase the penalty and how it serves as an educational corrective measure, but also a reminder to all those who do such a thing that they will receive and deserve punishment. We are also witnessing that he wants maximum protection and the right of the child, the right of the family, to finally put it first. It is therefore an important criminal protection against the provision of personal or family opportunities as referred to in Article 201. A KZ which is extended to the harm of a child who is therefore thrown away by the mockery of his peers or other persons or is caused by serious mental disturbances while the new paragraph is particularly incriminating by the official person or person who commits this criminal offence in the course of his professional activity in relation to the child. It was in line with international convention standards and the modernly increased protection of children, but it may have taken even more detail in that particular text especially when it is said in Article 58 to specify better, tighter and deeper because there are great traumas experienced by a child in his childhood and that this lasts almost a lifetime, and it can be confirmed many times that it also does some deviating behaviors in the later phase of life. Therefore, even in the context of such approaches, it is certainly necessary to make sure that it is even more stringent in the nomotechnical sense, but also in the execution of the solution to the subsistence for a child or a minor, in a way that is stated either by a court decision or by an executive order, and that there must be no sentimentality there, because whoever has no understanding for his own child certainly has no understanding for other citizens. I also agree that it is very important to sanction the most difficult acts against children from paedophiles, rapes, and others, that there should be no mercy or look at any way to isolate such a person because it is confirmed in practice that once it does, it is often subject to such rejuvenations and vomitings where innocent children suffer. Therefore, as the data suggests, the personal rights of children are the most vulnerable precisely in this area of avoiding restraint, domestic violence and pedophilia, I must point out that even more decisively, all judicial bodies need to stand up vigorously to stop and sanction violence against children when it happens. Therefore, this law, in addition to what is said in Article 126, where it is cited and norms the crime of taking bribes that is specifically stated such a crime because it endangers not only the public order as a whole but also the trust of citizens in the institutions of the state, it is doubtful that everything and everyone, it is almost a conclusion that everyone can do something who has money and that others who cannot do so are not even cadres. And trust in the rule of law is acquired precisely by institutions, the justice system and by punishing all those who so wish to gain their alleged rights. Therefore, raising the lower and upper borders is an excellent thing to confirm that such a system and phased resolution in judicial reform can produce the right results. This is exactly the kind of approach that can provide and enable all citizens to create an assumption that their rights of protection and I believe that we should finally understand that, however, in the enforcement of all laws and regulations, people are involved, and it is not a waste to remember the reform of the judicial system on one permanent education not only of judges but also of others acting in the judicial system, because it is the only way to catch up with the modern world and with modern technologies, for example the Internet, for example, by mobiles, which I repeat, is one of the challenges that are put before children and young generations, because protecting children is needed from kindergartens further, not only education, home education but also institutions and criminal law is one of those who must rightly sanction it. Also, as it can be seen, the draft working group and the outside member and board members have just said that they have shown the measured and complex changes that are listed here. I am pleased to have participated here in the working group of Supreme Court judges but I would like to make one objection that representatives of the county courts must not only be from the city of Zagreb but also from other cities where there are also high-level judges. Also from Deputy Attorney General, the Croatian Bar of Law, finally lawyers come as normal entities in the judicial system that must contribute to our laws being quality, good and which must be executed. This change is also based on studies of public change. So everything has been analysed and taken into account so that this proposal that was before us would be quality and good. And that's exactly because we can't do things this important over the night, but only thoroughly and carefully, taking care of the results of research on so-called. the judicial, legal policy of punishment, also by consulting judicial officers and officials who have done so for many years. That's why this law needs to be supported and passed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65171	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65172	My colleague Peronj mentioned the suspended penalties for sexual delicacies. Let's just say, it's weird for me to say that rape actually raised the lowest limit. Now it's three years. This highest ten years has not been touched by an impediment to rape. The most difficult form with a fatal consequence, etc. Ten years, the most banignant if you can do that, what I can hardly accept is the form of rape is three years, three to ten years. We've got sexual coercion here. This is in Article 50. There's a suspended sentence from six months to five years. She was raised from three months to six months to five years. Now I'm thinking clearly this healthy. What's the difference between rape and sexual coercion? Rape is the use of force, etc. A threat. And what is the coercion of sexual intercourse? A threat to some serious evil. That means if I rape someone or force sex by threatening to kill his family, I don't know what that would be, is this from six months to five years or this from three to ten years old? It seems to me that there is a great space left to say so for a free assessment of who will decide the fate of this person who committed the offence. Use of children or minors for pornography. There was a suspended sentence here for one to five years and now it's one to eight years. Turns out you can be punished for the distribution of pornographic material for eight years and for rape for three years. That's quite possible in our practice. We face cases like this every day. Here, today from the paper, yesterday, "On Saturday, released due to the father's threat, in a few hours he raped his stepdaughter, raped a minor after the judge released him, raped a 15-year-old girl and released immediately," etc. So there's a range of free estimates so that at least I think we can do what we can. We can influence judges in such a way that we can be clearer if they are not clearer already.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65173	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65174	I believe that the task force that did this has done its job well, but I agree that it is in these situations that the higher the penalty. And I'd add that even the witches are being taken care of because they can't allow improvised art from case to case. I believe, I repeat, that's what the Proposer will give a valid answer to. For such matters, children are the strictest punishment, both the longest and the upper borders.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65175	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I join those who welcome the tightening of sanctions and penalties. However, it seems to me that we did not actually get one full piece of information so that we could pass a proposal of the Penal Code. I think we should get information as far as the CAP reform has arrived, whether an investigation is going to be launched, until a reform of the offense has arrived, or if we're going to have criminal penalties and prisons filled. Where did the reform of the prison system come from, since the prisoner is getting more and more, prisons are getting less and less? If we're gonna tighten sanctions and fines, then it's obviously not gonna be enough jail time. So I expected to get one more piece of information here after all. I think we should make one full reform of the criminal system, and that's why I suggest that with this bill we go into third reading when we get all the information we're going to do with the violations? What are we going to do with the CAP? To what extent will the reform of the prison system go and then make this more severe Penal Code. It seems to me to be some sort of order now that we've heard all these suggestions. There are a lot of quality proposals that are not taken into account, and it seems to me that this proposal should still wait a little longer if we have waited until now and made a quality criminal system, not just one part, which is an amendment to the fifth or sixth penal code. Because when you look at the countries of Europe, Croatia is certainly the safest country in Europe. The data says that we have far fewer criminal reports on 100,000 residents than one of Slovenia, from one of Hungary. Three times smaller than one Austria, from Italy. And when you look at it, the question arises why daily in the media especially in the "Black Chronicle" and we read and we hear about the crimes committed that are by number and weight such that citizens really don't feel safe anymore. Which are much more brutal, for example. than in other neighbouring countries that have more, more criminal charges. More and more often, it is about rough robberies in the middle of the day in the city centers, about dramatic domestic violence. That's what my colleagues were talking about. Pedophile affairs, dark numbers of corruption crimes and so on. What do our citizens say? In 2004, the justice ministry did a high-quality survey and a public opinion assessment that the institutions of the criminal justice system are not functioning properly. The citizens are dissatisfied with the work of the judiciary. First of all, because of the length of criminal proceedings and inadequately mild application of criminal repression. So in one word, citizens are becoming less and less convinced that the legal order and criminal justice institutions provide them with a normal life without fear of their own safety, the safety of their families. And that is why we here in the legislative authority must make our contribution to a more comprehensive reform of the criminal system in which this amendment to the Penal Code would be one quality part. Indeed, the public has been poorly informed of the penalties for the most serious crimes. And most of the public really thinks that punishments are too mild and as we answer, we increase both the minimum and the maximum penalty without preparing the entire penal system. I'll mention one more part. I cannot leave out the warning of really one serious problem in criminal justice and it is related to corruption and organised crime. In spring 2004, the European Commission warned us about the problem of corruption and organised crime. In 2005, the problem of corruption remained listed as a serious problem affecting society. In this year, corruption is obviously worse than before. And we need to pay particular attention to that in terms of and in light of what I've been saying; the reform of the criminal system, not just the Proposal of the Penal Code. Something that was in the Penal Code, in the Proposal of the Penal Code, and now it's secretly gone, and I'm going to bring it in the context of not paying salaries to workers who are not a criminal offence, for which there is no prison sentence which in other countries is. But you have, for example, prison sentences for slander while in other countries you don't have it. And I really don't know what's happened since last year's announcements that will be deleted, leave out jail for the crime of slander especially by journalistic slander. That's what the Prime Minister said. Why did it give up? Why did he stay in prison for the defamation? I think prisons should be filled with far more serious acts, misdemeanors and, for the criminal act, defamation should be prescribed fines or if it cannot be fulfilled then work for the common good. Otherwise, a fine or a work for general good should be prescribed for a prison sentence of up to 3 months. In this way, we'll re-charging prisons with barbaric crime, bogey or small punishments, and the real criminals will be waiting for their turn in prison. And I'm asking the Proposer to answer this question for me. I'll propose an amendment. And if he's rejected then obviously we're going to have to go to new, new amendments and additions to the Penal Code. So in one word, what should we do to restore the security of the citizens to both the state and the legal order and the Croatian judiciary? The answer is unique. We need a full reform of the criminal system, not just one proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65177	Thank you. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65178	Thank you very much. When talking about this kind of law, it's very hard to talk about it in a partial way. We have simply been meeting for many years with a single phenomenon, which is that we cannot possibly get a chance to talk about the criminal system. We talk about the wars of that law all the time. So we're talking about wars, bits and pieces. We can't actually, in fact, compromise. In fact, we can, but in one debate, actually say where they are and what are the problems? In fact, it seems to me that in this part of criminal law, I don't think there should be much policy here or there shouldn't be too much policy. Each law is in a certain way an expression of a certain political will. But the question arises to what extent is it, in a specific case, this law the expression of political will, in which is the expression of profession? Because I can't interpret it any other way. If they've announced themselves I don't know the abusers, so the paedophiles, the dealers, the cameras, so those who are the most threatening of society, then I don't know why that is. For a simple reason. Because if you look at the indicators, so, and about the criminal acts, then you'll see that it's bigger, that the major threat is actually serious acts of robbery and the threat of weapons. So then we have one nonsens to de facto so about guns being said nothing. You can illegally own a gun or a gun with which you will go into some kind of raid and pay a thousand kuna for it. And on the other hand, with this proposal, if I don't know you guys or girls find you with a joint or some ecstasy pill I can get, I can get if you don't get a state lawyer in a good mood up to three years in prison. Therefore, it is obvious, obviously, that this particular tendency to have some current political will articulate through the Criminal Law, and this is how in the partial part does not actually produce results. Also, with laws like this, so we're discussing the Penal Code, but that's actually the most talk about the State's Attorney's Office police, about the judiciary. And the question arises, in fact, to what extent we are in that part of criminal persecution, so all of those laws that make up that conglomerate as much as we are in that part of us are understretched or outstretched. Or is it possible that our laws are good and that the police and the judiciary are no good to us? I'm not exactly inclined to believe that. And as we had a chance to hear here today to say that the judges are like this, that the police are like that. I believe they're partly like that and because we're passing laws like this, laws that, as we make them. And I'm actually just going to try to focus on one example, which is Article 173 or this proposal 40. So when it comes to drug abuse, I have to admit that I don't even know why this word of intoxication is used all the time when only this, there are other drugs, are not just intoxicating. But okay, it's just a formal question now. I'd just stick around here. I think that at least that part could have led to some of the experiences of European countries. Well, we shouldn't have gone to I don't know, Brussels or somewhere else, we could have jumped to Ljubljana and seen how the Slovenes did it and why they actually started doing it that way. Since nowhere but the repressive system has not produced results by itself, you can not put the fines, but if these penalties do not express themselves, if they do not become powerful, if there is no room in prisons, then they do not have any functions, let alone prevent them. So it seems to me that we should actually look for some other modality and approach to solving specific problems, and then in this case, and when it comes to drugs. Because as far as I'm aware of some European experiences, and I know them well, 20 years ago, 30-years ago, most of the European countries actually started with this repressive approach to combat drug abuse, or attempted to eliminate the drug market. However, what happened and how did this result? So it wasn't the market that got removed, or the drugs were not excluded in such a way that they were no longer available to the drug users, but simply increased the police apparatus, the judicial apparatus, or the state's attorney or prosecutor's office, was increased as you wish, and there were no results. After many years, it proved that it was not effectively moving in another way. In fact, it has begun to approach this problem in a way that goes with a different set of legislation. First of all, the legislation that should have allowed both the police and the judiciary to deal with large-scale dealers. Because what usually happens in these repressive situations and in these repressive situations? In fact, only this street section of the criminal pyramid is circumcised, and the top, the drug lords remain intact. And then normally you have situations like you do. So your parents in certain environments hang you by the names of people who are or did not eat dealers, etc., etc. I will therefore propose an amendment which should therefore be amended, i.e. supplementing paragraph 1 of Article 173 and under this new law of Article 40 concerning 173. So the words: "preparation" include the word "in quantity greater than minor". What does that mean? That means that the police wouldn't actually be dealing with petty, so I wouldn't even call drug dealers, but they're drug addicts whose pockets are in a variety of raids for their own use. It's a well-known drug institute for its own use and I should say just turn west. However, the following should be noted. That doesn't mean they won't be prosecuted. They'll be prosecuted under the Criminal Code. I assure you that they will find it harder to fall, I don't know, to pay a thousand or five thousand kunas of fines, but to wait for six years in prison or never to meet him or not, so to speak, not to be welcomed for any other reason. This is important for a simple reason. Because if you look at the structure of drug crimes in the Republic of Croatia, then exactly 70% of all drug dealings are related to these stories, so petty drug dealers and drug addicts. So, instead of liberating the premises of the police and the State's Attorney's Office which, according to this, the State's Attorney's Office in its practice is actually these works in most cases, but not always regrettable, is like a baffled act. So I think it should be a good idea to accept this. Also, another, another paragraph, I suggest that we change, which is that we must include in Article 173 a new law which will also clearly and rigorously state that dealing, if you want to do so, would even agree to the possession of drugs in schools, near schools, in the area, in the area of therefore educated institutions, is drastically punishable. Because the research they have shown has been done in Europe by young people who say that 26% of them are available in schools. I'm actually saying this, that we should simply try to think that, with some repressive measures, there are some other methods. If repressive methods don't give you the result, let's go some other way. In the end, I have to admit that I proposed this four years ago, facing problems in police work and police congestion with these petty cases, and it was simply impossible to deal with organised crime. I therefore think that regardless of the practice and the State's Attorney's Office, etc. This thing should have changed, and maybe it's the best example of what this law is on. Not to mention, as yet in Croatia, no drug burning and destruction has been resolved. The police are full of drugs. I mean, we've been waiting three years for a commission to be passed, to be handled, to be passed by the law. So it's not all about the length of the prison and it's not all about repressive methods, there are other methods.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65179	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65180	Dear Mr. President, dear ministers with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The promoter has repeatedly pointed out that here the Penal Code is gradually changing into stages of wars, and the phases and wars remain quite inconclusive, incomprehensible, which is why something changes in the first phase, to another stage. What's that for? Unless this government, I guess, is because it has led the citizens to live in wars, and I guess from a sign of solidarity with them, that's why this law changes to wars. Because I'm going to repeat how some society is dangerous behavior in the first stage, so it was so urgent that we had to get an incriminating of the human cloning ban immediately. So it is socially dangerous in Croatia that behaviour that, in fact, at this stage of Croatia's development cannot happen. And what's wrong with the street, which is going to be a little bit further off if it's probably the government and it wants, the economic crime, we're going to think about it, we're still going to analyze it, it's always said in the proposal. Well, you see, as the government thinks and thinks, and it's obvious why she's up to it, it's already said in the name of the SDP club, so I wouldn't want to repeat it. But the thing is really serious, and I'd like to say how much economic crime for this government is the last hole in the play. This is the only way to do business in Croatia at the expense of the believers. As this is the only thing in Croatia that is considered to be a business failure, therefore precisely economic crime is an important thing that must be found in our Penal Code which should cover any intentional violation of property rights obligations in order to find the illegal benefit of debtors and their associated interests, and to the detriment of business creditors. But that doesn't seem to concern the government. Legal systems that have been spared the experience of self-government socialism damages the interests of the creditors by going from the maximum anyone who does not protect the believer does not protect the property either. I will talk here about the experience of a well-known legal expert, but also the practitioner Dr. Mladen Klasic, who was a quarter of a century ago, was a liquidator and business manager in London who stopped doing business with the owner's will. Every six months, he said, he provided the company’s register with a detailed report on all the payments and payments of the company, and the oath to the Bible guaranteed the truthfulness of the data. He wonders why that parade. He says, of course, if, at the end of the search for any believer, the court's claim would remain irrevocable from the available assets of the company, at the moment, inciting bankruptcy and calling for him to be held accountable for a criminal offence to the creditor's harm. But in our case it is no crime and it is something that confuses the public, which the public cannot accept as some justice because it is in the logic of the average citizen serious crime and it is everywhere in the world but not in Croatia. Another example. Talisto Tanci, the owner of the parliament that was subjected to persecution, not because he ruined his own company, which he himself owned, which he himself founded but was prosecuted for the crime of embezzlement because of the betrayal of trust because of the issuing of business confidence in the damages of the credentials. So what was happening in Croatia, but according to our laws it is still possible to happen. And the lawsuit by the US Stock Agency demands the responsibility of those who sold bonds to the US market by showing counterfeit balance sheets of parmalate. It's not a crime with us, and it's not the government that wants it to be a crime. But we have here two or three tricks with a hat, so something that the public is particularly sensitive to are children, so there's the promoter who made an effort to raise the pedophiles' fines, for the lenders, for the drug dealers, for the dealers. However, the existing law relatively prescribes high penalties, and even more penalties were provided for in 2003, but then you smoothly refused to explain that, according to the government, the democratic mood of the government is incompatible to sharpen such a large tightening of the fine. So directly you have now admitted that crime has increased during this government and that you are powerless to defend the fight against crime in this way to react. Because what is different when, on behalf of the HDZ Club, it was said on behalf of the HDZ Club that this proposal, when an increase in penalties was sought and even in some cases even smaller, it was said in the name of the HDZ Club that it was illusory to expect that the increase in penalties would affect the reduction of crime. It was the unison attitude of the HDZ Club and each individual. So what happened in the meantime? I believe you weren't irresponsible, that you didn't really think that things were true that you said otherwise. So the situation of things changed, the "sixstantibus" is different, now things must have changed to that extent that there was an increase in dangerous crime. But what does it look like in practice? Who are the paedophiles? Who abuses children? Let's not think, I think it's one prejudice that these are irresponsible drunk fathers, neighbors and so on. These are often prominent citizens who experience the protection of the state from any instance, any health, any expert thinkers, whether fateful, or political. A large number were relatively reported, such as that. But they didn't welcome the end of the story. What my colleague Milanka was talking about here in detail. That's where they should be worried. Therefore, even with these high punishments, they will not reach the hand of justice. They are outside the law and under the protection of the mighty. And if that's the case, it's not just about them, it's about drug lords and the drug mob. An absolutely powerless state. The powerless state to this extent to propose that in 97 when the shame broke, written by some of our media, that this was done under the high patronage of both the government and the state itself, and then in order to contain such hostile writing in the newspaper, became a criminal offense of drug possession. Since then, we've had a real explosion of drug abuse here. That the government has never really asked where this drug comes from in Croatia, and how it is inefficient in the repression, or in the processing of exactly those who are never drug users, but are suppliers, but are its producers. Therefore, this state of affairs is devastating and means the negativity of reality. If, of all, if, in the total mass of crime, the possession of drugs and the addition of drugs of 1 gram or half grams, participates in the total mass, it is a crime of 12% and 70% for drug possession, and we have 350 criminal acts, and 700 criminal incrimination with easier and harder forms then we know that one, almost - is only a waste of this incrimination. And that's what our judiciary does. So, with such a bill, criminal law will gain its breadth, its extension, and it will lose and the blade for which we should have reserved criminal legislation, which is for those most dangerous criminals, the most dangerous of social behaviours, or the most dangerous aspects of certain dangerous social behaviors. But that's not what the Proposer has in mind, which is out of ignorance, which is autistic, and in what he wants might be the first time that the public likes it. Here's what the experts say, the legal ones who say this is going to cause the system to break. If we see how many criminal convictions... /The speaker is turned off, then subsequently turned on. Three years in prison without any mitigation. And where? In prisons that not only investigate certain media, but also according to a report by the occupier, where the government, which says that prisons are ruled by cold, moisture, smell, hepatitis infection, TBC, drugs. The prison system hasn't been invested in anything in the last three years. The last thing we did was reconstruct wing 5 in Leprechaun and build a circular wall. And it's over. Therefore, you do not know the prison system at all, nor do you have any idea what is going on in prisons, and this is what the Justice Committee in this system has specifically warned about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65181	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65182	Mr. President, colleague Ingrid Anticevic. It is not true that this government has changed its laws in phases and wars and has brought Croatian citizens to live in wars. Your government has brought citizens to live in wars and wars because in 1990 we inherited $4 billion from the Yugoslav state at the time of the defense and the creation of the Croatian state. We owe Croatia a four-billion-dollar state, and you are in 3 years, God forbid, it hasn't happened again for 3 years, 13 billion you owe not only to us, but to our generations, and it's easy to rule and debt those who will later have to pay back. And your aphorisms that I don't have time for are like that, and in the end, I'm just gonna tell you something. You said we haven't invested anything in prison in the last three years. You have this experience because your predecessors knew how to invest in prisons, and you're an example of Goli Island.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65183	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65184	Thank you very much. I'm also correcting a false allegation that reads: "Your government has brought citizens to live in wars." The first false assumption is that it's your government, I thought it was our government in common. Secondly, our government has not brought citizens to live in wars but has allowed these wars to pay off in a way that has increased industrial production 6% in the past 3 months, a reduction in the unemployment rate of 5% and all other economic indicators that speak against the statement of Ms. Prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65185	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65186	Mr. President. It is incorrect that this legal project is proposed because it is an increase in crime. We adopted yesterday, discussed the state of crime in Croatia, statistics from 2005 and the first quarter of 2006. Most of the crime is in decline, and as far as prison is concerned, it seems that Mrs. Anticevic is concerned about pedophiles and other interest rates so as not to be in prison too long, especially the conditions. I agree that conditions must be worthy of man, but they should not be concerned either about pedophiles or about the interest on account of this high penalty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65187	Dear Representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65188	Mr President, it is incorrect, colleagues and colleagues, that an incorrect colleague has stated in respect of Article 40 because the offences of drug abuse referred to in Article 173 suggest an increase from 1 to 12 years to at least 3 years of age. Which means the sentence imposed can be up to 15 years in prison. In paragraph 3, an increase in the lower specific penalty measure is proposed from at least 3 to 5 years in prison while paragraphs 4 and 5 proposes increasing the necessary lower penalty measures from 3 months to a year in prison. Finally, the reform of the judicial system, along with what counterpart Jarnjak had previously stated, reduced the number of crimes in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65189	And the esteemed representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65190	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to correct the assumption that this authority is in the interest of organised crime being good. This is not true because the government daily demonstrates the will and willingness to deal with organised crime, but then I would say in Ms. Anticevic's style that it is exactly the opposite and that the latest cases in Rijeka, Metkovic and elsewhere show that it is precisely the SDP that is the bearer of negative tendencies, that the SDP is reviving the intelligence underworld and that the SDP that wants organised crime not to end.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65191	The Minister of Justice. Here you go. Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I will try to respond to a part of the observations made on the draft laws laid down by the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In this regard, the applicant responsiblely argues that, in relation to the 2003 Penal Code, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court's decision by the new draft law, there is not a single incrimination from commercial offences which is not covered by any obligation to bring the Stabilisation and Association Agreements which would remain unrealized by this proposal. Let me just look back at some of the things that have been said. In relation to the objection that the applicant will not and does not wish or avoid to carry out the criminal act of non-payment of wages, the right of the worker is protected. The first Labour Act, where criminal sanctions have been established, and this existing Penal Code, in Article 114, incrimination has prevented many infringements of the rights of workers and, among others, at the end of that article, all labour rights are included in the description of the incrimination. One of the labour rights is the right to pay, therefore the existing KZ text is also covered by this incrimination. As regards the objection that in this country, given the state of the KZ text, everyone can do what they want and cheat about how they want to do it, because there is an incriminating crime of trust abuse in Article 227 of the article, fraud Article 224, unconscious business in economic business that has now been extended to passive form, so far it has been active. In view of the objections to preventing fines for retail dealing, the applicant does not know, however, what would be petty, what would be large-scale dealing. The description of the incrimination is clear, so whoever has and owns for reselling, who manufactures intoxicating drugs, etc., this is a description of the incrimination. I agree that we should use some other methods like Mr. Lucin said, but it's always said that we're burdening the police, the State's Attorney's Office by preventing penalties for those so-called. small dealers or those who own drugs. I have to say that there's a possibility of a great crime, so by the assessment of the State's Attorney's Office, and it also doesn't say anywhere, so all the time it's been said that they're not being able to prosecute the so-called. Big criminals because they have to be chased by those little ones. So it's not said anywhere that all those tiny ones have to get caught first, and then they're laughing big ones. In relation to crimes, it was stated that we were nothing, that the promoter had done nothing compared to corruption. We have here said that in the first stage, a criminal offence has already been introduced to receive and give bribes in economic business. These amendments suggest increasing the very sanctions for this crime precisely in the wake of anti-corruption struggle. On the other hand, it was a question of why nothing was done about the libel's crime, why the sanctions still held, the prison sanctions that it is in all the countries of Europe. It's just not true. So in the countries of Europe it is a criminal offence, including so-called A journalist's libel incriminated in all countries of Europe except Bosnia and Herzegovina, where only this slander is not incriminating as a criminal offence. Some half of them, however, have been prevented from fines or prisons, but solutions are diverse in Europe. Finally, there were objections that we did not go into full reform, so we should think about and explain both the reform of the Criminal Law and the reform of the prison system and the reform of the CAP. It's true. At the beginning of the presentation, I said that this is a criminal law, a material criminal law, only one part of the criminal justice system, in order to make it more effective for us to end crime, that it is necessary to enter into reforms of the Criminal Procedure Act that are under way, for which a working group is formed and are currently under way to investigate and record the existing situation for the sake of the proposals and these changes. As far as the prison system is concerned, we do not assess it as necessary to reform it, but rather assess the need to improve the material state of the prison system and invest in prison spaces in terms of improvement and equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65193	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65194	There's a whole series of incorrect allegations that arise, I'd say, first of all, from not knowing the case law, but not just the case law, but life at all. Let's say right to pay. No, that's right. The right to pay says Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65195	Peace. Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65196	... there is a right to pay, however the State's Attorney's Office claims that... [[Specially enabled.]] Is this where you hold the order, Mr. President, or do you not hold it? [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65197	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65198	If I don't, I'll help myself... [[Because of the noise in the hall, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65199	Peace. Peace. Don't encourage and invite fellow MPs, invite them this way. Go ahead, go ahead! ... We're not gonna make a deal. We're not at the market. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65200	I think we're in the Parliament. So the right to pay, the state's attorney's office says, is not enough for a crime of default and no one could be prosecuted for it. Furthermore, economic incrimination. Unless we have a criminal offence that anyone who destroys the company in a way that stays with business creditors, suppliers, creditors, taxpayers, employees or the state is not obliged to commit a crime, we have done nothing. And you're still talking about tiny and big. He says petty, so no one's stopping them from processing the big ones. But you must know that they are part of the chain and that when they are found in the process they are silent and will never reveal those above themselves. And you all know it, but the pyramid protects itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65201	Corrections to incorrect allegations should be corrections, not comments and assessments. Dear representative Milanka Opačić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65202	Well, Madam Minister, you said that prison for journalists is a criminal offence in all the countries of the European Union except Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's not the problem. The problem is that Prime Minister Sanader promised that it would be abolished in the Penal Code and you didn't do it, that's what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65203	Now this is a commentary again. You're not correcting an incorrect quote again. Please, come on. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65204	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I think we could be here, so probably by morning, each of us individually lists various cases, various cases that we've known from writing in the media where we're unhappy with court practice, where we've actually learned through the media about the very serious criminal acts that have happened and, of course, when we've read what the criminal sanctions for such behavior have been, we've remained disappointed. But according to our constitution, we have a division of power. The Croatian Parliament adopts laws, the Government implements these laws, and the judiciary judges independently, independently and freely. So, in a situation like this, when we witness such punishments with which neither we nor the public, nor the victims themselves are satisfied and consider them too low, we react in exactly one way. We're changing the Penal Code. We are changing the Penal Code in a way that the aim of this law is for our courts to impose more severe sanctions. That's what we as Parliamentarians can do. We don't conduct procedures, we don't impose penalties, but we pass laws and in these laws we determine that criminal justice framework within which a certain penalty will be imposed. Of course, we can't be satisfied if we look at most of the penalties being imposed that they're moving around that penalty minimum and it's so simple by statistics. It's a piece of information that's known to everyone, and that's why we're changing that criminal framework in the largest number of actual crimes, we're raising that minimum. Somewhere we raise maximum, but the most common change of this law is to raise that minimum penalty precisely so that those penalties that will be imposed tomorrow, that they will be more severe, that they may be more severe. In any case, the aim of this law is really to protect the value, protect and improve the security of our citizens and we want to achieve this precisely by this law, by tightening the penalties. In the amendments that were made in 2004, the Penal Code has been amended in a way that we have installed in our criminal law those crimes in which we have been bound by the European conventions that we have ratified, signed. Then, we also introduced certain new crimes so that it can be seen from the reasoning of this law which is before us that our obligations under the agreement have been carried out and that there are no other obligations. I agree that it is necessary because I must say in words such as major reforms and such things, I think it is more appropriate to say in one constant change that they are necessary because life is happening today quickly. Today, business in the economy is going fast, ways and forms of business are changing. Indeed, many deviating phenomena of course need to be answered by appropriate criminal legislation. I agree that it is necessary to consider whether it is necessary to install a criminal offence, but this one that would give a more adequate response to certain phenomena. But first, we must use what we have in the current and existing law. That's what we saw, and we can see that the judiciary isn't doing any good. I must say that I am personally deeply sorry that we are also changing the provisions of Article 3.3.7. The Penal Code as a provision for Article 3.3.7. Penalty law is to me when I read it absolutely appropriate and I'd just like to say it now. It refers to abuse of position and authority. Officially, he says, either a responsible person who, with the aim of providing himself or others with any non-propriety benefit or to cause others any harm to take advantage of his or her position and authority, exceeds the limits of his or her authority or does not perform his or her duty, will be punished by fines or fines of up to three years. We are now changing this provision here to specify this term to another person, so we say that it means to another person or legal person because the courts interpret such a provision as to refer exclusively to a natural person, that means if someone obtains any unequivocal benefit or property to a legal person, it will avoid this sanctions against the existing practice of the court. Of course, we're not a court. The only thing we can do as legislators is change the law, and that's exactly what we're doing. And that's why I think that this law absolutely needs to be supported because this law prescribes a different criminal justice framework, different and conditions of actually applying light circumstances, which is also very important in the amendments to this law. And all of this when we change the limits of punishment where they are raised and the lower limits or minimum penalties that will be imposed under the changed conditions of application of eased circumstances must certainly lead to a more severe punishment of the perpetrators of criminal offences. This is, in any case, the goal, although you are careful every year, we have a report on the work of a state attorney and for several years we have actually seen that as far as the number of criminal charges filed on 100 thousand, on 100,000 citizens comparatively looking at countries around us, we are not, we are not a country that is deeply threatened by crime, although public perception is significantly different. But public perception is also a very limited category. I remember a show she recently was, I think it was a weekly diary where they asked the citizens what they think when multiple murders were now at this time or I don't know, 20 years ago? Of course everyone answered. They thought there were a lot more murders now. However, when the data was removed from the State Statistics Archives, it was in fact clear that 20 years ago there were many more murders. So much for perception, public perception. I therefore think that this Penal Code should absolutely be supported because, by supporting this law, we, just as Parliament, order the judiciary to impose and apply more severe sanctions than it has done so far. There have already been words here, and the Minister herself said about the situation in the prison system, and I don't think there's any doubt that there's any need to invest a certain amount of funds because, indeed, from all the reports, it turns out that our prison system is pretty bad and that these institutions are in pretty bad material condition. Of course, this in itself, amending the Penal Code is just one segment of criminal policy, and in itself it won't be enough to make the situation better here. Of course, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Police must also be amended because it was also a matter of limitations. I have to admit, by speaking harshly, by prescribing harsh penalties, we are automatically coming to a larger age. It comes out of one thing, it's actually about one another. But what I stand for. Not so much for these big deadlines out of date, but for the efficiency of the state apparatus. This means that we do not experience that these actions are revealed to us, processed I do not know after how many years because when a long-term process is carried out from the moment the work was done it is no longer the same thing as when it was done at a time when it actually happened. There was also a debate about life, whether to prescribe life imprisonment or not? I don't think that's an overly important question at all, because if we see the very fact that only 12% of countries have prescribed such punishment. If we see that out of those 12%, only 83% of them have never once imposed that sentence, I don't think that's really question number one, and that's not the problem with our legislation. So I stand up for a stricter criminal policy in any case, and that's exactly why I'm going to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65205	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, ma'am, the minister is gone. So the first thing I want to say is the short and clear fact that I doubt and doubt that the goals and achievements planned for this fifth draft of the law will be achieved because the fact that the Croatian law has so far been changed four times since 1997 is the fifth novel. So you've been looking at it for the past seven years. It follows that every year and a half we changed the Penal Code. This is not acceptable for the basic system law, which imposes a question of reasons for frequent changes. The former government did the same thing. This government's working, too. Each one of them talked about how you and you would get there. The sanctioning, the action of the legislative judiciary and everything else, but unfortunately these are not facts. Look, we now have a situation where this novel covers about 100, or 130 articles, of a total of 391 articles. If it wants to change the profile of criminal repression, then it is clear that reform of such proportions should be part of the strategy, regulated criminal repression, and this means that it must be brought on common ground with other regulations, first of all, the Criminal Procedure Act. About the execution of criminal sanctions, about the organisation of courts and about the police. Here we have again in action so-called. partial approach only to material legal regulations which will certainly not lead to what is claimed to be reaching or that they are targets. I therefore propose and it would be far smarter if instead of correcting the existing law we should go to a new, whole Penal Code. But first of all, we have to execute that one analytical judgment. We have reports and we know the data regarding the number of crimes in 2005. We know the situation, we need to consider it further in detail about the state's attorney's office. So it shows that the number of crimes in Croatia was less than in 2004 only last year, and therefore this tells us all about the fact that this system is not working for us. The police, the state's attorney's office, the courts themselves. Because it's interesting to see what we're going to do now, you need to do a further analysis. It claims that it was recorded last year, say, 79 thousand 946 crimes. Of them 53,000 619 were resolved. So the rate was 67.1%, but if those crimes with unknown perpetrators were added to that, the damages would come to an amount of 112,000 490, and the rate of insolvency is 54.7. Now that's what the police tell us. Now we need to see how much of this the State's Attorney's office has gone through with the proper procedure, and how did that end in the end? It'll be a real novel and a real approach to reforming the whole thing so we know what we want, what we want? Can we make laws every day? We can say we'll go to sanctions to fix something. We won't fix anything if this part doesn't work and how it's supposed to work. I wouldn't last any longer. I was only obliged because my time had run out, related to Article 14. This article is intended to extend the circle of particularly protected persons, which I think is excessive. It should also be carefully considered and properly extended to the protection of police officers, military police and judicial officers in performing official duties. The relevant provision means Article 14 is drawn up so that it is easy to see how it has escaped the control of the composers and such as is not at all appropriate for a serious critical analysis at all. This Regulation shall enter into force on the Criminal law, hard murder,... it is necessary to amend and strengthen the protection of persons protecting the fundamental rights of Croatian citizens and society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This must be arranged in a way appropriate to the provisions of such importance. The proposed text does not meet the minimum requirements for this as the explanation makes a very different statement. He is above all too broadly involved when considering the number of officials authorized to disclose the offence. These are for you: city transport controllers, parking attendants, agricultural, sanitary, water, construction, veterinary and numerous other inspectors. Then the existing expansion with military personnel, meaning almost 1/5 employees in Croatia, indicates that they are truly over-excessive and fatal to achieve the purpose. Since the beginning of 2007, the supervision of urban stationary traffic has been taken over by municipal officials of the local self-government unit's competent authority pursuant to Article 5. Road safety laws. According to the proposed text, they, too, mean utility officers entered a circle of specially protected entities, along with officials of port captains and railways, and other traffic inspectors and officials of internal affairs who extend visas, issue passports. They are therefore as protected as the members of the special police who solve difficult hostage situations. Finally, the question arises whether the provision covers the official person only when he performs his official duties, e.g. A market inspector and resolves the infringement, or cases where an official finds out beyond that an offence has been reported. Let's say the market inspector found out someone committed a traffic violation to him. So, it's done so much in a carnade way, and now it's said that there was a team of experts from the State's Attorney's Office, a team of experts from the Supreme Court, from these courts, from the police. Well, then I'm surprised I spoke on behalf of the club, so how come they're so good experts at what they've done? They didn't do anything. So if we want to have legislation criminally, and Penal Code is a fundamental law in every country. And the Penal Code can't be changed every year and a half. There is no legal certainty and cannot be achieved by the objective and purpose that is to be achieved. The only way we're gonna do that right analytical judgment is we know about the number of crimes and everything else and then we step up but in the package. Not only the Penal Code, but also the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Design of the Police, the execution of the sentence and the organisation of the courts, and then we'll get the right answer and then we'll be able to say that we have the right reform. And let's do it. And it certainly means shutting down the policy and the sense of choosing both lawyers and judges and everything else, and we're going to get that part of the rule of law independent of the executive, or the legislative one, and that's what we need to do, rather than bicker at these levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65207	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65208	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Kovacevic actually located the problem well, and he said that we can pass laws every day. Is a colleague, we can pass laws every day, especially if there is a secure parliamentary majority. The question, however, is how meaningful it is to pass laws. It is precisely too often changing, amending and supplementing laws that have led to legal uncertainty. A unique legal practice cannot be created. The lack of uniform legal practice leads to different criteria and evaluations, and precisely because of this diversity in criteria, evaluations of criteria have been given us such generosity to impose excessive penalties for the most severe crimes. And all this has led to the mistrust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the functioning of the rule of law, but also in the rule of law. And as long as that citizens' trust doesn't come back, we can wander and partially change the laws individually as much as you want. However, we will never achieve the goal, and our goal is to contain crime. No matter how much we believe in this House today that crime is in decline. The fact is, it's not. I wonder where those applications end or which is why you don't file charges for a felony. So if the applications are filed and nothing happens after the application, and believe me, I have citizens coming to me who are just saying that. Nothing's going on. Of course the citizen is then discouraged and criminal charges won't be filed if the police delete them from the records or if they stay... an unknown perpetrator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65209	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65210	Well, just like you told your colleagues, I said. So instead of repairing the existing law, Croatia needs a new whole Penal Code where we will have all these parameters and where we will try to establish a system. And this part of the penalty prescribed by law, the courts, either softer or below the legal minimum, or they impose probation. The proposed novel means it goes with raising the minimum penalty, restricting judicial mitigation and application, and applying a conditional conviction or direction so-called. more evenly exploiting the criminal frameworks. The basic weakness of such a solution is that it remains unknown real content and the severity of processed crime. It's possible, for example. that the economic crimes are indeed the easiest, and that the biggest cases are not at all as we have seen... They weren't even on that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you need to see what's happening. Are the judges lazy or are they easier to do? Is the consequences and frequent changes in the law? Is the police really unquality doing that part towards the state's attorney's office or the state's attorney's office, that's what they do by doing it? So it can't be fixed by this part, because then we're not going to get into the most important part, and that's to see what the weight of processed crime is. That's where you should... This way we won't get an answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65211	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65212	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. For three reasons, I do not believe that these amendments to the Penal Code will achieve the objectives declared in his explanation and in the opening letter of the Minister. The first reason I see this in Article 309 in the second and third points is that any public comment on any judgment of the court, any public speech on this subject, will be very risky, as the author may subject to the true provisions of that same law. And there will be one protected caste that is untouchable from any criticism, often used in the preparation of these laws with arguments and evidence. And when we accept these arguments and evidence, then the same law is not good again. The second reason for my abstention is capacity, accommodation capacity, which I will explain later. And my third reason for the large reserve is that this bill continues, continues to encourage the gray economy in the Republic of Croatia which, according to some data, has crossed 30% of the gross social product. And since the market consists of markets for goods and services and capital and the labour market, it turns out that at least 10% of the grey economy is on the labour market. And these amendments to the Penal Code will either remain, or leave the possibility and stimulation to continue somewhere around 200 thousand workers in Croatia for their purposes without being reported. Or that about 60 grand for the sake of it, earns the right to pay, doesn't receive the salary without the offender being in violation of the Penal Code. When they were on the subject of courts, all ministers and all ministers rejected our proposal to introduce working courts. With this change through the Penal Code, we now state that the works that go to harm workers in Croatia are sanctioned by the existing law. Short of labour rights, short of freedom of work, short of freedom of choice of title or employment, short of job availability, short of income rights, short of the law of established working time, short of vacation rights, short of leave, short of the right to health and pension insurance, short of birth rights, rights behind law, judicial decisions or collective agreements in Article 114 is treated by criminal acts and the penalty prevented by short of those rights is either a fine, until now was or up to one and is now proposed up to three years in prison. When we had on the table a report from the State's Attorney's Office, we were looking for data on the number of cases based on Article 114. No criminal offence under Article 114 has been mentioned in the criminal code and in that huge report, not a single word, in any statistical section. Penalty law. Asking questions and asking for that information, and I'm going to allow Ms. Secretary and Secretary of State to deny me, and tomorrow I'm going to request the information with a representative's question. So how many judgments in the last 15 years in Croatia have been brought on the basis of Article 114. KZ? So how many persons in Croatia are convicted of violations of labour rights, salaries, pension, health care, non-registration, pregnant women's rights, vacation rights? In addition, Sunday's work has been a political topic of political competition for a year in Croatia, and no state attorney or his deputy has used any of the rights set out in Article 114, if this is interpreted, to initiate the procedure. So how many applications did the court refuse? Run, how many applications did the State's Attorney's Office have? Because in his report, Mr Bajic did not mention any criminal offence under Article 114 and the fourth question or information I would ask for, the structure of punishment. So how many fines were imposed, and how many prisons until one year under the existing law? Conversing with those who had filed criminal charges and received rejections but in any case so far, there has been an argument that the infringement and one right under Article 114 is not a criminal offence unless it has been proven that the perpetrator has gained property benefit by committing a criminal offence. So if the employer does not pay the worker six salaries, the Croatian judiciary considers that he has not gained property benefit. If he does not report it pension and health, does not pay contributions to pension and health care, does not pay income tax for that worker, he did not gain property benefit from our experts and independent justice. If pregnant workers are deprived of their right to protection because of pregnancy problems and quit because of this, they have not gained property benefit. If ten workers are fired without a care programme and transferred to the burden of the state at the employment office, they did not gain property benefit and did not commit a criminal offence in 2006 or in 2003 or in 99th or 97th or 91s, and no one ever prosecutes in Croatia. Neither those 200 thousand unreported workers nor there, employers gain property benefits, anti-zaconite property benefits. And how much on a thousand kuna pay and taxes? Well, 200 grand, let's make it a thousand kuna per worker, so times twelve months on average, that's not an asset benefit. I believe that I will receive the information I will request and that on the basis of the data we will be able to determine whether the existing provision is 114. The penal code is really in favour of workers or capital. What punishments have been prevented? Money penalty, 10 daily incomes from the person to whom the penalty is applied. At this point, the minimum base for entrepreneurs, minimum income is 4,029,00 kuna. The daily income is 134,00 kuna. Ten daily incomes is 1.340,00 kuna. It's a restraining order. For a company manager who has 10 thousand kunas of net wages, if he cancels the salary of ten workers three months in a row and the company earns an anti-zoonite profit of what these salaries are, the fine is 3.3300,00 kuna regardless of the amount of profits, no matter how many ten workers are left without a job, a denied right, anything. Because we didn't apply by copying... the model, the daily income compared to the number of days, hours, the number of workers that were subject to violations under the Penal Code. And finally, an increase in prison time. Assuming that the number of crimes will not grow and believing that police will be effective and more crimes revealed, in five years' time, how many places in prison we have to have that detainees are not in the penitentiary, and detainees are in the penitentiary because there are not enough jobs in detentions, under quotes. Pedophiles, rapists, robbers, murderers, will wait after the power of the verdict for several years to turn up to go to jail if the same judiciary, the ministry does not propose measures to improve the situation in institutions that end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65213	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go. And before that, I apologize. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65214	Thank you. It's incorrect that you've hardened your colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65215	Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65216	Correction, yes, incorrect assumption. No one has ever talked about these problems of workers' protection before. You've probably made little of our modified, completely modified incrimination under Article 114 of the labour rights violation and other labour rights, realizing that the State's Attorney's Office rejects criminal charges by taking the view that there is no harm to the right to work. So, it's the payoff itself. That it's abstract, and how it's going to happen, that's another problem. So, faced with such a practice, we were just going to supplement, change that Article 114 so that non-payment of wages would be incrimination. But not only that, but also the non-reporting of workers, i.e. working on black and non-retirement of workers in retirement and disability. We also set out in the Law on a litigation procedure that work disputes must be completed within 6 months, and by appeal within a month. Now it would be wise to look for a report to see how these provisions are implemented. So you're wrong to point this out first. Maybe you've got a little bit of equipment, but I'm glad you're thinking about it, even now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65217	The question is forgetfulness? Is it because he forgot about his colleague, Lesar? ... It's incorrect that he forgot, what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65218	No, no. It is incorrect that a colleague said that everyone, he also specifically spoke to ministers, forgot about this particular problem of incrimination and protection of workers' rights. So now I'm saying what was done in office and what we suggested. And in the end, it was passed by the 2003 Law. So I point him to it. .../The speaker turned off, then subsequently turned on./ colleague, speak as much as you want, but I will vote for that proposal to abolish the parliamentary pensions. You don't need to be afraid that, or you can be... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65219	And now we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65220	I apologize, Mr. President, but I must react. I used a sentence that a fellow respected quoted on the subject that no minister has ever accepted the introduction of working courts. And everything else was wrong listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65221	Forget it, listen. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65222	Thank you very much, Mr. President, honoring State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, first of all, this is the 10th novel of the Penal Code in the Republic of Croatia. If it is the Penal Code, then it is expected to be passed by consensus because it has several functions. One of the most important is the general prevention and stability of the persecution of socially dangerous actions and actions. Can we talk about one and another function of the Penal Code? It is simply not possible to expect a general prevention of the Penal Code when it changes 10 times in 10 years. This shows that the government is wandering in search of protection of social values and measures to be taken. If I look at the extent of the amendments and the addition of the Penal Code as it came to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption and evaluations that were made both in public and in Parliament, then some real range of this Law would be to create an impression of determination in the fight against crime, but it's only an impression, and it's not a real measure. Why do I think that is? Of course, I don't even object to the bill's proposal when it comes to raising the penalties prescribed below for certain criminal offences. I don't object just think it's on our social occasions apaurin for serious illness. So there's no effect expected of the Penal Code. Why don't I think so? First, almost all speakers in the Parliament said that nothing has changed about economic crime, and in Croatia there is an assessment of both us inside and the assessment outside that Croatia is a highly corrupt country and that the high crime rate is generally but also in the economy. If the assessment stands then the 10th time to change the Penal Code without consensus in the Croatian Parliament can be nothing more than the creation of the impression that this government is fighting corruption and crime. My predecessors have already said that there are many times in the Parliament, and I can confirm that for at least 10 years it has been requested, that in the ongoing reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia and the slowness of the courts, and that Croatia is according to the Constitution and the social state, at least the councils, judicial councils to resolve work disputes or disputes in the field of work. Protect the weaker in the capital and labour market game and always to the harm of the social and labour-dependent man, and without coercion it is not possible to do so, and the coercion is state-owned in the Penal Code. There are even some discrepancys in reasoning and suggestions. The Proposer is working hard to ensure that criminal policy or punishment policy is something that is not appropriate to the Penal Code. And he says every verdict is an individual act. If so, I agree that so, that trial is difficult and must be judged individually, then raising only the lower limit is reducing that individuality in judgments because the range is also decreasing. It's shrinking relatively. It's shrinking relatively. So we will be in a situation that, of course, the judge, if he determines the action, cannot always go into the process of reducing or easing penalties because there are certain measures. A bill like this will create more difficulties in my court than it will solve will create more difficulties than it will solve. I have to look around, and my colleagues here were talking about article 309. I think that it should be changed in the interest of both the judiciary and the judges living in society, not outside society, and that they are a measure of themselves. If this stays, the judges will be closed, you can say, from the problems that are happening in society. And another article, Article 114, non-payment of wages is not acceptable to have in the Constitution a social state, and let in practice sometimes happen that hundreds of thousands and more workers work and do not receive salaries. This has been happening in Croatia for almost 15 years. We have all found that privatisation of the objectives has achieved little, and of the negative effects mainly on workers, jobs and their safety. If the Penal Code can't predict a penalty for not paying for work, what is it, but exploitation? That's why I'm not sure the bill will achieve the goals it has declared, which is why I'm likely to be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65223	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65224	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's an incorrect allegation that a respected representative has said even twice, which is that the adoption of this law is like a regulation to create an impression that the government is fighting corruption and crime. That is incorrect, I think it should be corrected because it is criminal-material law and in fact these quality standards are actually a fundamental assumption that the state, or government, would have a quality fight against corruption and crime, and in that sense I am correcting your incorrect allegations, and they are all cited by you and other colleagues who commented on Article 114 in a way that persistently you and they are avoiding literally the formulation of that crime. You avoid the term right to earn and you all avoid this formulation which is incriminating, therefore, as a criminal offence, and thus as a criminal offence is included in the material criminal right of that situation when there is a violation of that right, hence labour rights, employment rights in the exercise of the right to pay, on earnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65225	Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65226	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. For someone professionally engaged in the theory of criminal law, the new KZ or KZ supplement is a small holiday. Unfortunately, this KZ doesn't bring any holiday for a reason because it's absolutely unambitious. It's his first feature. Disappointment, I share the disappointment of those who have pointed out that the entire critical areas of social life in the Republic of Croatia for which this society is highly sensitized by working relationships and even related to sexual violence in an unsuitable way have been decided that in the privatisation of the future, I am not talking about retroactiveness, so no real measures have been put in place. I would point out that even what was wanted to be done except that there was a rise in those boundaries of obstacles, so the whole law looks more like that mathematical puzzle than the right to change the law, that it was actually made unquality, and I'm going to explain why I think it's unquality. First of all, as far as statutes are concerned. Obsolete are tried to be raised in two basic ways. One way is to move or raise the latest minimums in certain crimes, and very rarely the maximum limits of punishment were raised. In doing so, I remind you that the general provisions on old age are relatively and absolutely related to maximum impediment. The second thing that happened when the amendments to the provisions of the general section of the Penal Code relating to old age are articles 19, that is, when the sentence of Article 21 was put into effect, it actually became obsolete only for minor crimes. So, the only positive effect that can be expected to be that less of these petty acts of insult, slander and similar will fall into oblivion, and I'm afraid we haven't made a real shift that was expected in serious acts. Furthermore, there are some really interesting provisions, but for which it is a pity that they remained unimaginable. First of all, I mean Articles 11 and 12 of the law. This is the punishment of a permanent measure, the security of the ban on driving and that it is understandable, acceptable and diaphragm, but it seems to me that it may not be fully imagined because as it is formulated it can be applied to the subcession of a colossal light crime in the area of traffic security and a really difficult one. In my court, this renaissance, this last renaissance which justifies a lasting measure, should nevertheless be tied to two more serious crimes, and not to a single banal and one serious crime, and I think this is how this Article 11 is set, that is, in intervention in Article 78, that is, contrary to some principle of proportionality which we, as an unwritten constitutional principle, and we have accepted from European law. Furthermore, I find it particularly interesting, and I think it's a valuable idea, but yet a completely unimaginable article 82, so the current article of the 12th of this Law 82, which refers to the confiscation of property benefit. In fact, we know that in some countries like Ireland, the greatest effect in the fight against organised crime, including individual crime, is a highly professional nature, which is precisely through intervention in the products of crime. So that crime was demoted. How? So they installed mechanisms that take away property benefit and crime make it invaluable and so it is widely defined that it is... of crime or criminal offence product and others that the burden of proof has been transferred to the perpetrator of the crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We do not have a lot of reasons in this article 12, because it is primarily related to the definition, I don’t think it’s good, so the benefit not of an individual but of a group of people or a criminal organization, so an individual who is professionally engaged in a wide and well-established individual criminal activity is not covered. That's one thing. And secondly, no related persons are included. And also, the formulations which can be found to be derived from this work do not transfer the burden of evidence to the perpetrator of a crime such as in those countries which successfully intervened in the products of a criminal offence rather than in fact the burden of evidence will remain in the state. I don't think that's good, and therefore probably by my assessment of the application of this new paragraph 2 in Article 82, they won't give the results that the promoter has given. Of the other provisions, I, too, have given amendments to these two articles in this regard, so now that any of these are acceptable, I would be pleased. Also, together with my colleague, Stazic, I have tabled an amendment with a proposal to repeal Article 309(2) and the related paragraph 3. I really think that in a democratic society that has a problem with the judiciary, limiting the criticism of the judiciary is not good and that those judges who are unable to resist the public word are not good judges and should not be protected in this way. After all, we heard a few Supreme Court judges who specifically said they didn't need that kind of protection. Here, not to be too long, because my colleagues have said a lot before me, which is actually a lack of this unambitious law. I don't know how I'm going to plead, I'm still going to think about it, I'm probably going to hold back, or maybe even out of protest for the unambitiousness of this project I'm going to be against, not because the tone is harmful. He just doesn't seem to bring me that. We've already encouraged you, and in other changes we've greatly encouraged you to give more, give more, here's the opposition supporting you, but unfortunately, that kind of motivation didn't seem enough, and then probably after this round, another round of changes and the addition of KZ will follow, which is a shame not to have done before. Because what you don't do before with a lot more problems is work later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65227	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary of Justice Snjezana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65228	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! By listening to the debate and the evaluations of this law and the positive and the negative, and also this last one that says that the law is unambitious, I felt the need to read the first provision of the article of the Penal Code which determines the content of the law, which we protect by the Penal Code. He says, let me read that freedom, however, "Crime and criminal sanctions are prescribed only for those acts which threaten or violate the personal freedoms and rights of man and other rights and social values guaranteed and protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and international law so that their protection could not be achieved without criminal and legal coercion." So that's the aim of the law, to protect certain values, to respond to them and punish them. We were here saying that the state, the Parliament, the government was wandering. She may have been wandering around with some other laws, given the frequent changes in the law, but now we're talking about the Penal Code. Since 1998, this has indeed been the fifth change of this law and a fundamental question has been raised which has been our goal in each of these amendments to the law. Probably always the same, to respond to certain phenomena, to a certain need for the importance of certain values and to punish them. We can all ask ourselves the question then whether we have achieved this goal, whether the Government is proposing, whether the Parliament is the one who votes the laws. We can consider ourselves co-responsible and we can find an explanation in another fact, which is that our society is in great turmoil. And the man follows the changes and suggestions that we have proposed, they reflect the major changes, the strong changes that occur, new phenomena and threats of social values that need to be reacted to. This is one of the reasons why it was necessary in relatively short time to change the law several times, although whenever we proposed amendments to the law we consulted the profession, we consulted the persons in practice who could best give us. However, this kind of major change is obviously the necessity and need to respond in the Penal Code to phenomena that threaten the Constitution of protected values and fundamental human rights. And that is why it is difficult to guarantee that we will not come back in some future with a proposal for change, regardless of what we are proposing in our best intention at the moment what we think we should react to. And when we talk about amendments to the law and we propose changes in certain criminal acts and when tightening criminal sanctions, we are indeed sending a certain message. The legislator sends a certain message which considers that these values are threatened, which should be further protected, and this proposal does, among other things, suggest themselves throughout the whole series, I will not repeat them repeatedly, there have been words, increase of penalties, tightening penalties either by changing the type of punishment, either by increasing the lower, upper threshold or both criminal thresholds or penalty sanctions. That's one thing. And secondly, of course, it responds to the possibility of a conditional conviction, the mitigation of penalties, parole, in order to round up the possibility of persons or persons who are to be punished actually being punished and then to serve that sentence properly. The second thing that has appeared to me that I must admit personally I am pleased here is one distinction, the difference between the law itself as such, as the framework that gives certain solutions, in this case prescribed there will be criminal acts which are deemed to be necessary, that there should be penalties and certain penalties, here is proposed a series of increases in penalties and its implementation. In this segment, this law cannot be considered reform. It is a pebble in a series of procedures that appear in total in the judicial system and then in the area of criminal law in order to improve and create better assumptions in the area of the criminal justice system. But that's what I've said to this speaker myself more than once. No law will be so good or we cannot consider it good if it is not implemented in practice. Here, when it comes to criminal justice and sanctions, we're talking about the whole chain of institutions that need to do their job. First, you have to report crimes. We can discuss why crimes are not reported. Second, applications need to be processed, the police are in place, so they need to be processed further through the State's Attorney's Office, brought up charges, conducted investigations, and only then comes the court. I don't mean to diminish or esculpate the role of the court at this time, but I do feel the need to react to certain remarks that have been made or assessments that have been said that judges are unprofessional, unprofessional and unquality. There are probably people in every profession who don't deserve it. I was once criticized by my fellow judges when I told this speaker that those who do not deserve to be judges should be shown and removed. I'll say it again. I mean it. But to a large extent, and we have a large number of judges, about 2,000 judges, these are people who do really responsible and professionally, exactly their jobs. It's not easy for them either. In these major changes to regulations,... practice, through these great phenomena, but of course you need to react and point to those who do not deserve to be judges and through the law of the prescribed procedure, to give them appropriate penalties and thus to show that they are not really protected either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no protected service. They're not judges either, but at the level of those individual phenomena. But I'm sorry, maybe on this stage, because it's about the Penal Code. This occasion was also said and I will not repeat it now, the minister said about some parts and what did I say, and your reactions and the reaction of the representatives in certain stages show where the focus is transferred? The focus is shifted to social issues, to economic crime, to the protection of children and to the protection of public words. These are the new values that are being protected in this society. Of course we can discuss here whether something really is in being told or not? The government believes, we have repeatedly said that, for example, in the protection of workers' rights and their right to pay through the right to... protected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of commercial crimes, we can also talk about whether or not a shift has been made? Several times on several occasions, only the experts talked about whether this is the way these crimes allow such crimes to be prosecuted, and always the answer was: Yes. Here's so short and important. I thank you for the comments and remarks and criticism of the Law. And it would really be nice if the law passed by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65229	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. The HDZ representative club, club president, respected representative and vice president Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65231	Mr. President, I'm here to consult on the vote of these amendments, please pause for 15 minutes on behalf of the club, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65232	It's a 15-minute stop. It's 3:32 p.m. Well, time's up for the club session. The president of the club, please! Honored vice president of the club and vice president of Luka Bebić's home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I asked for a break to carry out consultations with the amendment's promoters in order to adopt a final proposal on amendments and amendments to this law. How in this case, for these or those reasons, we have failed and there are some, and I do not suggest that the vote on this law be postponed for next Friday or another term so that we can continue our consultations with the amendment's proposings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65235	Okay. Take the necessary consultations and we'll continue voting one term next week. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Please determine the quorum. Let's put the keys in to determine the quorum. The result? 95 MPs and MPs are present according to the keys. So we have a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, may I have your attention, please? First we will vote on the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65237	Mr. President, I would like to warn you most well-intentioned and all of us here together that the provisions that are not now also subject to the Government's amendment are contrary to the recommendation of the Council of Ministers Committee of Europe R203/20E.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65238	Please, that's what you'll do when you vote on the amendments. First, change the government. We need to show ourselves about this because these amendments came after the deadline whether or not we will debate and vote on these amendments. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 86 votes for, 7 abstentions and 3 against. So these amendments that came after the deadline will be discussed and voted. Amendment 1. Government. I ask State Secretary Snježana Bagic to explain Amendment 1. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65239	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Amendment 1. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on the final proposal of the Criminal Code, refer to the provision of Article 19 which is proposed, which is otherwise related to outdated prosecution and this amendment, which the Government proposes, refers to the act of limitation in the offences committed to the harm of the child and the minor, and propose that in such cases, outdated offences in such cases where offences have been committed against the child, to the harm of the child and the minors shall not run to their adulthood. With this amendment, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has hopefully respected the debate that has been conducted on some committees, especially on committees on human rights and on national minorities, which comes from the fact that when it comes to the child and the offence committed against the child, we are in a specific situation because the child is represented by law by his parents and other guardians, however, he cannot because it is not a full-time protection of his rights alone. It is therefore proposed that this amendment allow the child, even after his adulthood, to enter the place of the one who runs the penal programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65240	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Only club representatives can participate in the debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65241	As regards Amendment 2 and which are...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65242	Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65243	On Amendment 1, I think it's good that [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65244	Order, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65245	Are we going to discuss it together or are we going to discuss it individually?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65246	Each individual is being debated. I am concluding the debate on Amendment 1 to the Government. Please vote on Amendment 1 to the Government. Who's up for that amendment? Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 93 votes in favour and 3 abstentions of amendment 1 to the government adopted. Amendment 2. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65247	Amendment 2 refers to the amendment of Article 52 which provides that when a fine is imposed for a criminal offence for which only that type of penalty is prescribed, the fine shall then be charged for a forced and in the event of absence or inability to impose a charge to replace it by working for the general good at large. This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, is the result of the other amendments the Government proposes to be tabled in the Final Proposal of this Law. It refers and is related to these subsequent amendments relating to crimes against honor and reputation, insults and slanders where only fines are to be prescribed for those offences. So no more prison sentences, and then Article 52 is imposed as a logical need to change the way in which such punishment is executed. So fines when she's herself prescribed as a form of punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65248	I'm opening a debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65249	It took the government three years to come up with a solution like this... Do you allow a hearing? [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65250	Please peace, ladies and gentlemen! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65251	Today, the government's representatives speak this way. So for three years this SDP's thinking about this type of crime should have been accepted. Let me read you what the Government in its opinion, class 740-02/04... /The speech room has been disabled./... since 29 April... [[The intruders don't understand.]] Well, I know the truth is awkward, but you'll have to listen to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] In 2004, he spoke in his opinion when the SDP proposed this solution. In our criminal justice system, there is not a single offence for which only fines would be prescribed but always with fines is prescribed alternatively and prison punishment and only fines in criminal offences against honor and respect and libel through the media would be an exception and it would be discriminatory. That's what the government says. But I'm glad she's shown all her generosity now so that after three years, she can come up with a solution like this. However, it was not consistent or well-rescribed by these solutions that I welcome that after three years, the force to do so has been able to do so, thus sharing a statement or a supple law remains an option and depending on whether the fine is prescribed solely for one piece or is alternatively prescribed with a prison sentence. I think this is an unconsistent solution because wherever a fine has been imposed in court, it is clear by the judicial authority no matter how it is prescribed then that it is in the power of the state to seek in this way both its settlement and its execution, and not that for such a possibility only because it was unable to carry out fines for the other crimes it foresees a supple prison. It's a non-consistent solution and there's nothing, there's no reason to share this kind of crime by how they are, how they're prescribed and not how they're said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65252	Thank you. HDZ club respected Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65253	The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this amendment to the government and we have not included this amendment in the new law for three, three, three years. This government lasts two years, five months and 17 days. Which means your government hasn't included this amendment in these laws in three years because you've been six months and 13 days in three years. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65254	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna need a chance to take a break to calm down the spirits. Because he won't be able to argue. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65255	It is incorrect that my colleague Bebic spoke here counting the days and so because this contained the 2003 Penal Code novel. Therefore, as a coalition authority it was also proposed, but you know what the fate of the Penal Code was then because it was abolished after the Constitutional Court's decision but it also contained our whole novel submitted by the SDP Club and completely rejected by this authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65256	I am concluding the debate on this amendment number two. Please, let's get on with it. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes for, 5 abstentions, 5 against, the proposed amendment. Amendment three. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65257	The amendment of the Third Mr. President and the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs concerns the amendment in Article 55. on the label of the law, the name of the law which stipulates the maintenance of a long-term sentence of imprisonment. In fact, it's being replaced, yeah, I don't get it, I'm sorry, it's being replaced, as it's now written in the text of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, by the correct law on the execution of a prison sentence, as a law prescribed by the terms and procedure of upholding the long-term sentence of imprisonment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65258	I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65259	It was indeed commendable that the government had observed that the amended or adopted 2003 Penal Code had been replaced by the Law on the Execution of Penalty and Sanctions so that the Government itself met after three years and realized that it existed and existed in our criminal law.../The Talker had shut down and re-emerged./... the prison which, behold, she did not know what it was called, let alone that it existed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65260	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of the club president and House Vice President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65261	And this amendment is supported by the Croatian Democratic Community Club and must unfortunately, since a colleague has repeatedly reiterated that this government has not included this in the law for three years, repeats to Ms. MPs and the former justice minister that this government took place in 22.12.2003, and since then, it has been two years, five months and 17 days. And if it's three years, then your government hasn't put what you're up for for for six months and 13 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65262	Gentlemen, are we going to calm down or am I going to interrupt the session? Late. There's no explanation. I'll give you the explanation I gave you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65263	Your Honor, Mr. President, this doesn't make sense anymore to listen to each other's government. If we are to be objective and responsible, we should say that the Penal Code is one of the most important laws in the country and cannot be changed at every moment by both governments. And that's why we're in a situation like this where we're in a position where no one can handle the Penal Code anymore, and if we continue like this, it won't be good, nor will it protect children from pedophilia and everything else. We agreed to go to this variant now. Let's make a whole new Penal Code. Nor is this the solution that you offer, nor is it what you offer. Let's be objective and responsible. So this amendment can be supported.../President: Well peace!/... as if it were going in that part, but this is irresponsible behavior given the state it is in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65264	Order! Okay. Order! Dear Representative Furio Radin. Here you go. Then don't raise your hands and gesture. Okay. Amendment three. The vote. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes in favour and 8 abstentions adopted and amendment three. Amendment four.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65265	Mr. President, Amendment Four refers to crimes against honor and reputation, specifically crimes of insult and slander. The proposed amendment suggests that, in relation to these offences, insults and slanders, there are no more prison sentences for ordinary citizens, and for the possible crime of slander or insult done by means of what we say through means of public communication or as I popularly say it through and through journalistic slander. If you'll excuse me, it's a brief explanation of this bill of law that, of course, it shows now... It is a question that is sometimes raised as a question of all questions when it comes to some criminal acts whether or not we should decriminalize slander. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our legal system, it has already been largely decriminalized by the fact that, under Article 203, illegality has been excluded for the work done through the press or through other means of public communication, and if it is established and proved that it has been done exclusively and solely with the purpose of insulting or slandering someone and that evidence to the prosecutor. However, starting from the really repeated debates both in the public and in the House of Commons and from the fact that sometimes court practice did not give us the right for the government is appreciating all these arguments and circumstances now proposing an amendment to indeed punish the prison as a punishment for these crimes against honor and respect is eradicating from our legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65266	I'm opening a debate. Clubs, only club representatives can participate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on Amendment Four. We can vote. In accordance with Article 166(2), The Rules of Procedure on these amendments are discussed and voted in the debate only club representatives can participate. The result? With 89 votes in favour and one abstention, 7 against and amendment four adopted. Amendment number five.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65267	The Fifth Amendment refers to the offences of bringing personal and family opportunities and belongs to... or the head of the Penal Code, criminal acts against honor and reputation and the Government then as he suggested for the offences of insults and slanders, and here he suggests that the sentence of imprisonment be deleted for these crimes unless it is criminal acts committed against the child. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means the damage to the child's basic and family life.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65268	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting amendments to the fifth vote. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes for 2 abstentions and 4 against and Amendment 5. Governments adopted. And Amendment 6. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65269	Amendment 6 refers to a criminal offence, the transfer of a criminal offence. Therefore, as I have already said in this chapter, it is suggested that the sentence of prison be deleted, so is the criminal act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65270	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 6. Government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes for and 2 abstentions and 4 against and Amendment 6. Governments adopted. Thank you very much. Now let's get on the amendment table. Amendment 1 to the table of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65272	The government does not accept this amendment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns the crime of trafficking in human beings and slavery. An increase in penalties is proposed in one segment. The Government considers and assesses that the already prescribed range of penalties has enabled adequate criminal justice protection, that it is appropriate and in accordance with the objective of proportionality of the prescribed Article 1. Penalty law. And I must point out that both the lower and the upper limits of punishment, so the range of penalties relating to the crimes of trafficking in human beings and slavery in accordance with the Council of Europe Convention to combat human trafficking and the range of penalties prescribed... [[Because of the noise, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65273	President Furio Radin, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65274	Yes, this amendment, by the way, refers to the so difficult problem of today's society that I will still ask to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65275	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 27 for, 6 against, abstentions and 62 against. So the amendment didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Amendment of the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65276	The second amendment concerns the same criminal offence, Article 42. The final proposal, therefore, is a crime of trafficking in human beings and slavery. The amendment applies somewhat to the amended description of the crime and to the limits of punishment, so the government does not accept it. For the same reasons as Amendment 1, because we believe that both the description of the crime and the penalties prescribed are in accordance with the danger and international legal obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65277	Please, the president of the board, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65278	I'd like to ask about the amendment to the vote. It's true what you said. So we've been looking for the same as the Human Rights Committee, the increase in penalties. We asked for some way of clearing the text, but what is very important to me is that we asked for the addition of a new item in Article 42, which reads: "Who is using or allowing another person to take advantage of the person he knows is the victim of human trafficking for the purpose of prostitution or other forms of sexual exploitation of forced labour or slavery services or of similar relations with him, and the removal of organs will be punished by a prison of 3 months to 3 years. The perpetrator will also be punished for trying this act.". It was essentially our attempt to predict in the Penal Code the punishment of users of sexual services. I therefore ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65279	Please, who's in favor of Amendment 2 that the government doesn't accept? Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 25 votes for, 3 abstentions, 67 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment to the 3rd Representative, Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65280	The government doesn't accept. This amendment concerns a ban on driving a motor vehicle. And it is not accepted for this reason that contrary to the proposed measures proposed by this final proposal for a ban on the management of a motor vehicle can forever, it could then be pronounced for any other criminal offence against traffic safety, including its qualified forms which did not result in death, e.g. and the one who leaves the scene of the accident. And this, this ban on driving a motor vehicle can only be said for, then for those crimes when it came to death. The applicant therefore considers that this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65281	Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65282	I'd like to ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65283	The vote. Please vote for this amendment which the Government does not accept. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 27 for, 3 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 4th amendment, also representing Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65284	The government doesn't accept. It does not accept that the Government assesses that the definition of property benefits and what is considered and the way it has been acquired is already sufficiently well explained in the proposed Article 12 and that, in practice, there will really be no problem, either in the processing of such offences via the State's Attorney's Office, or in the subsequent trial, determining what is considered to be an asset benefit acquired by a criminal offence or in a group.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65285	Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65286	Your Honor, Mr. President, the amendment has just had the intention of changing the norm that will absolutely be ineffective, because it makes it unclear what the asset benefit is, and especially where the burden of proof is. In those legislations that have successfully resolved organised crime and corruption, the burden of proof is precisely on the defendant in the case where he has disproportionate assets with his regular incomes. This standard will absolutely not change one percent of what we want in Croatia. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65287	Please vote for the view of this amendment which the Government does not accept. We can vote. The result? 31 for, 1 abstention, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65288	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65289	It becomes an integral part of the law. 6 amendments, also the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment in the text proposed by the Government cannot be accepted. This is a matter of intervention in Article 91 of the Penal Code, which defines what is considered to be a serious murder and which is precisely defined. The proposed amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities, which is quite broad, already covers some of the forms that are in this Article 91, such as if it kills a child or a minor, as second... benefiting, etc. [[You don't understand.]] However, the Government considers that the content and achievement of what is proposed by the amendment can be achieved by adding, in Article 14 of the final bill amending Article 91, the sentence of the act of serious murder at point 6: "Whoever else dies out of reckless revenge or other particularly low initiatives, the word "hate" so that Article 6 of Article 91 reads: "Whoever else dies out of reckless revenge, hatred or other particularly low initiatives" linking it to the previously accepted amendment where the government has accepted the definition of hate crime we believe would achieve the purpose of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65291	President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Representative Furio Radin. Peace please, gentlemen and ladies!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65292	We believe that such a proposal that has been reached is a crime of hatred as defined in that second amendment is now entering this amendment, and it actually allows us to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65293	So, in Article 91(6), the word "hate" is added to the word "hate" with the others. My colleague, please, colleague Antičević tossing this is nonsense. [[You can hear the intruder.]] It's a stupid thing that you... Don't throw it away, so what kind of way is that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That amendment is an integral part of the law. There is a qualitative form of serious murder if the murder was committed out of particular serious responsibility. Those who don't understand and who have no idea don't answer. It's the sixth amendment. What? ... Here you go, fellow Radin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65294	To be, I'm sorry, Mr. President, I know it's not exactly procedure. Let's be clear. The amendment we adopted earlier defined a hate crime, and in fact, it has now just become the new amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65295	It's clear. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65296	Amendment 7 to Sima Lučina's MPs, the government does not accept it because, in fact, it refers to the criminal act of 173 and to the use of drugs in quantity greater than minor. The government does not accept it because of Article 28 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Penal Code describes what is considered a minor criminal offence, and therefore it is not necessary to include this in particular in Article 173 relating only to the criminal offence of drug abuse, and the proposed amendment relating to Article 2 of this Act defines the circumstances of the conduct of a criminal offence which is taken into account in the expression of the type and measure of punishment, as already provided for in Article 56. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65297	Thank you. Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65298	Thank you very much. I can understand that in the ministry, or in the government, they did not accept my argument because it can enter into the sphere of political arguments as I understand this solution of the government also by a political solution. But I'm surprised they haven't consulted or at least in the last month they've heard and listened to the voice of the profession. You've had more statements, opinions, judges, criminals and even people who deal with treatment, in fact by not accepting this amendment, you're definitely doing nothing but contributing to the fact that we have good statistics in the fight against drug dealers, but we actually have good statistics in the fight against patients and drug addicts. And until this amendment is adopted or changed something in this direction, Croatia will not begin to address the problem of fighting drug abuse. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65299	Let's vote for this amendment that the government does not accept. We can vote. The result? 28 for, one abstention, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8 amendments to the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65300	The government doesn't accept. The proposed amendment concerns penalties for the act of subjugation and concerns the redefinition of the description of this crime and the range of penalties. As a proposer, the government considers that the already prescribed range of penalties allows for adequate criminal protection and estimates that the description of the crime as proposed by the Government in its final proposal for the law is better, i.e. to better reflect the objective and purpose of criminal protection prescribed by this criminal offence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65301	I'd like the president of the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65302	I would, of course, ask the vote, because it is not only that we have proposed a different range of penalties but we have proposed another important paper and I want to say it here, which is that, according to the current law, it is only punishable if it is done for profit, and the seduction of children and minors is punished regardless of motive. With this amendment, we have also proposed punishment for the subjugation of minors regardless of motive, and the subcontraction for profit as a qualified form of the basic part of the bribery. The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65303	Please vote. Please, let's get on with it. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? The result? 18 for, 3 abstentions, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 9 The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65304	The government does not accept because the manner in which the offence is described in the proposed amendments reflects the objective and purpose of the one part. The way proposed by the Proposer would sometimes be hard to prove in certain cases, we have established this after consulting experts, and the range of penalties is already covered by the amendment, is the same as in this proposed amendment and is the same as the Government has already proposed by its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65305	Representative, Chairman of the Furio Radin Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65306	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65307	Amendment 9 withdrawn. Amendment 10 to Vesna Škara-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65308	The government does not accept, or is already covered by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65309	Thank you. We should vote, there's no representative. Please, let's get on with it. Who's up for that amendment? The result? 2 for, 4 abstentions, 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65310	The government doesn't accept. The adoption of this amendment would, in fact, lead to contradictions in paragraph 1 of the same article, which clarifies differences when a person is considered to be criminally responsible if he avoids the duty of maintenance. The range of penalties is the same as the government proposed in its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65311	Chairman of the Furio Radin Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65312	Thank you very much. After 20 years of alimony, we won't let anyone even pay, so we'll put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65313	Please vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 22 votes for, 2 abstentions, 64 against the amendment did not get the required majority. Amendment of the 12th Representatives Ivo Josipovic and Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65314	The government doesn't accept. In particular, the Law on Courts recently adopted in the High House Article 6 prohibits any form of influence on judicial decisions, and in particular any form of coercion against judges, abuse of public powers and personal influence, and the use of media and public appearances in a way contrary to the principles of democratic society, which have an impact on the decision-making process. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The criminal code of coercion to a judicial officer would prevent the punishment of persons acting contrary to Article 6. Court law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65315	Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65316	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Penal Code, but by rejecting this amendment and by retaining paragraph 2 and paragraph 3. In the 309th article, the Government appears to be of the opinion that judges, judicial officials should not be written publicly in the papers or their work may be commented. That's not surprising to me, because here, President Tudjman's daughter's case will go out of date, and no one here can publicly comment on why such cases remain out of date, what kind of judges we have working like that. It is, therefore, in the interest of this government, to protect the persecution of those and to prevent, who deserve persecution, and to prevent any public comment on the work of the courts. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65317	Peace, please! Please vote in favour of Amendment 12 which the Government does not accept. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will vote on the law at any moment. I'm asking those MPs and MPs to come into the hall. In two minutes, we'll vote on the law. The result? 19 for, 6 abstentions, 64 against, the amendment didn't get the required majority. And I'm asking the MPs to concentrate, so we've got a long, long time. Amendment 13 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65318	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65319	It becomes an integral part of the Law. And Amendment 14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65320	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65321	It becomes an integral part of the Law. We are going to, before the vote on the final proposal of the Law, I am voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, which was given at the request of Mr Slaven Letica and Ms Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. Please, let's get on with it. This is the opinion that the amendments adopted, which have been submitted by the Rules of Procedure, cannot be included in the procedure and the debate, and the opinion is only voted in accordance with Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65322	Mr. President, I didn't mean to interrupt when you didn't give me your word earlier. You injured Article 167(2) because you did not ask me what quality I appeared when I raised my hand, and I volunteered as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. That's what I'm telling you for pedagogical reasons. When I answer that means I'm right, in principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65323	Dear Letica, for pedagogical reasons, first look at yourself in one mirror. For pedagogical reasons. Because I give a lesson about when it is stated in a sentence why it is given, why the Committee gives an opinion on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and why I am giving that opinion to the vote then be correct. I've read it a long time ago for both you and this Rules of Procedure. I'm putting this to a vote. We can vote. The result? 76 votes for, 2 abstentions, 11 against. The majority adopted the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. This Law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes for, 2 abstentions and 10 against, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code was passed in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65326	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd also be grateful if I'd known a little sooner when I was going somewhere because there's three, four things going parallelly, and this is an accident that I'm actually headed towards Virovitica. According to Virovitica, I'm on my way. At the last minute, I came back, and Secretary of State took him on his way to Brussels, and now here he is. But good. Mr. President. Well, thank you very much. [[Intruder: As long as you're here.]] Mr. President, I'll just make a brief explanation. The explanation and need of the establishment of the University of Pula, which passed by committees on legislation, education, science and culture and which actually went without any more significant remarks. The whole concept of developing modern Croatian universities and setting up a network of Croatian universities has led to Croatia needing small, flexible, dynamic universities. The university that will educate for labour market needs, but I would also like to say that the National Council has also insisted that Croatia should not, for example, have happened in Romania and some other countries, a large number of non-quality universities that were actually self-sufficient and choked during work and have shown one great non-quality. The preparation of the University of Pula lasted more than three years. A series of shortcomings has also been identified on the first draft submitted to the National Council for Higher Education and has been identified as regards personnel, spatial and others. Over a period of a year and a half, all those shortcomings that were in the lab were removed. New teachers are employed and at this time three independent universities functioned at the University of Rijeka and the Faculty of Economics and Tourism, "Doctor Mijo Mirković", which was then in Pula. Faculty of Philosophy, School of Higher Education in Pula and University Library in Pula. So from this need that we have now, we're actually talking about detachment from the University of Rijeka segment and the addition of a new one, I'd say to a mobile, dynamic university that would be done in principle I'd say what we've been up to since the beginning of the founding and concepts and new laws, and that's a little flexible. On a separate principle, a well-founded and fully integrated university. At this point, looking at the funds needed to start the work of the University of Pula, given that there are already budget heads for everything I have stated, and I repeat, it is about the Faculty of Economics and Tourism, the Faculty of Philosophy and the University School of Education as a university library for which there are separate funds we have foreseen and a million 716 thousand kuna for the period from October to December 2006, that is, for that part of the academic year, and that would be enough for the full work of the university. I must also point out here that the other Croatian universities together and as some public institutes, the scientific public institutes have offered full assistance, both human resources and scientific and research cooperation, which are always necessary for small universities. If you'll excuse me, I'll give you an example of two of them. One is Dubrovnik University and one is Zadar University. As far as Dubrovnik and Zadar are concerned, what they know best, means for this entire region as regards economic development and free, we can say very ambitiously that with the creation of a new University in Pula, we have closed one network and the National Council considers that the university network is more or less set up as such and that the need for a new university is not in place at the moment in Croatia. For colleges and professional studies, yes. And according to the draft which was drawn up and which was done I would say in a symbiosis of the existing Croatian universities, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the National Council for Higher Education we actually believe that there is no objective environment that would be and would work to delay the start of the academic year within the new University of Pula. Here, Mr. President, it was an elaborate and a report actually after the positive I would say unanimous acceptances by both committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65327	Thank you. Committees on Education Science and Culture. ... gets a respected representative, Željko Pavlic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65328	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me present to you the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, which was discussed at its second session held on 10 May by the proposal of the Law establishing the University of Pula. The Committee discussed this issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the proposal's representative, and the debate highlighted the unquestionable nature of the proposal, as two smaller universities in Croatia were recently established under the same procedure, both in Zadar and Dubrovnik, as homogeneous and higher education institutions with unique legal personality. The contents of the application for the establishment of the University of Pula are further explained in the draft on the establishment of the University of Pula, on which the National Council for Higher Education has also made a favourable statement after the harmonisation and supplementation of the National Council for Higher Education in its conclusion of 15 September 2005. The debate supports the programme development direction of the new university, including its international aspects. A question has been asked of the degree in which the new university can meet the requirement of the ratio of scientific staff and the number of students according to the standards of the Bologna Process, in which the existing Croatian universities are also disabled. But it is also estimated that just one new university is an opportunity to develop within its framework a proper process of training new teaching staff. Some historical and current specificities are also indicated, i.e. the needs of the Istrian socio-cultural space that is best answered by the very university based in Pula. The University of Rijeka agrees with the allocation of part of the capacity from its composition for the purpose of establishing a new university and is ready to help in an appropriate manner. Therefore, the following conclusion was unanimously reached after the debate was held. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposal of the Law establishing the University of Pula and all proposals and objections to this bill will be referred to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65329	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65330	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning of the debate, I say that the SDP club will support the adoption of the Law establishing the University of Pula. In view of the fact that the Government has referred to the parliamentary procedure of the bill, which provides for the establishment of the University of Pula, that all parliamentary committees have also given support to the adoption of this law, and this is a particularly significant parent committee. It is expected that all the clubs in this House will support the adoption of the Law establishing the University of Pula. Well, from that point of view, it might not be necessary to talk more extensively about this law. But since I come from this area of our homeland as a representative of the SDP, and given the importance that we attach to the establishment of this university at the SDP club, and also to the expectations of the local community, let me say a few sentences more. In the SDP club, we are aware that the reconstruction of higher education institutions and their organisation is an integrated university of a separate type of complex and responsible work. But also the only approach that guarantees the success of the quality of higher education adapted to the Bologna Declaration and modern practice. When considering and making a decision on the establishment of the University of Pula, the historical and cultural assumptions of the centuries-old position and development of Istria are important. On entering the times when Istria was part of other state-owned structures, already looking at a newer history since September of '43, i.e. Since the accession of Istria to the homeland, and the final departure of Anglo-Americans in 1947, the desire and the efforts made to establish the University of Pula have been demonstrated. Mr. Minister said the process lasts for three years. I'd say, Mr. Minister, it's been almost 60 years. The leading Istrian scientists and pedagogues, academician Mio Mirkovic, Mate Balota and Professor Tora Peru, sought to prove to the political leadership at the time behind the departure of Americans, Anglo-Americans that the national interest of opening the university in Istria is as a newly freed end. Unfortunately, there was not much hearing, but thanks to their efforts and efforts by the Istrian mind and local community in 1960, a higher economic school opened in Pula, and in 1961. The School of Higher Education was founded in '98. A year. It is known that at the opening of more economic school academics Mio Mirkovic, Mate Balota almost refused to attend because he was not satisfied with the structure of the building because it did not match his plans. In his vision he had just had the University of Pula, which seems to finally come true. Of the more economically developed today's Faculty of Economics and Tourism Dr. Mio Mirković, and from the Pedagogical Academy of Today's Faculty of Philosophy in Pula and the University of Higher Education in Pula, it can therefore be said that the foundations of today's networks of higher education institutions were set up in the early 1960s. In addition to the above mentioned higher education institutions during the 1960s and Istria, some higher schools based outside Istria, Maribor, Kranj, Higher technical textile school from Zagreb had a study in Pazin, and there was also a Higher Agricultural School in Poreč. In the mentioned Istria there are other institutions of higher education, the agricultural department in Poreč, the University of Rijeka with a study of winemaking which opened in 2001 and Mediterranean agriculture in 2003 and a business department in Pula higher schools in Rijeka and the Higher Theological School in seminary... in Pula founded in 1993. [[You don't understand.]] In addition, there are a number of institutions outside the school system which are content or by activity also related to the system and they complement the possibility of developing higher education such as the Institute for Agriculture and Tourism in Poreč and the Centre for the Research of the Sea Rovinj, which is part of the Ruđer Bošković Institute in Zagreb. Now let's look at some assumptions that speak of the justification of establishing a university in Pula as I see them. Study programmes are proposed in such a way that they do not overlap with the existing programmes of the University of Rijeka and other universities in the Republic of Croatia, which is evident from the elaborates, which, as Minister Promorac said, was delivered to completion and in the final version which is certainly acceptable to these ambiguities are defined. It is necessary, it is clear that only quality teaching programs can attract students from local countries, both from the national and international backgrounds, given that part of our country. The organisation is based primarily on the unification of existing higher education institutions and the university library of one of the most modern and best equipped in Croatia, which is in the city of Pula, which was opened with the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the past term and student... It is important that the existing institutions that need to be integrated have absolute support for this project and it is very important that the project is supported by the University of Rijeka as part of which these higher education institutions are currently operating. [[You don't understand.]] Third, the number of potential students and teaching staff at each university is an important issue to pay special attention to. The survival of each educational institution depends precisely on the continued inflow of students. According to data from international statistics, it is considered normal when over 100,000 people are enrolled in college. Based on data on demographic movements in Istria, they could expect between 5 and 6 thousand because of 205,000 inhabitants, 5 and 6 thousand new students each year. It is clear that a certain number of students will go to study outside Istria because of the fact that there will be no study in Istria in the area of their interest or go to study abroad. Based on the quality of the programme offered if they are such and there is no reason not to, this number of departures can be compensated by the inflow of students outside the region and the international environment. In Istria, around 3,000 and 416 students were enrolled in all higher education institutions in the past school year and that number was 1.65% in Croatia and 2.4 in the same year. In developed countries, as is known to be 3.5 to 4.8. 318 scientific staff and co-workers were included in the course. If the number of high-level scientific staff in the population structure is observed, we can say that according to the science doctor's procedure in the general population of Istria there is 01% and Croatia 02, Master's of Istria 02 and Croatia 03 and in developed countries the number of researchers is around 1%, and that was in some sense a fundamental observation when making a decision to form a university, however, I think that these data also speak enough about necessity. When observing the university, however, there is 12.2% of the population with college and Croatia lower 11.9. It can actually be said that it is necessary to deal systematically with this problem, and I think it is one of the important tasks of the future Pula University. Material-financial infrastructure conditions, as Mr. Minister also said, exist, are not truly brilliant but are a solid basis for the upgrade of the entire system. In creating conditions, the local community of Pula and the county will have to engage with the help of the state in improving the existing situation. The expected start of building a new hospital in Pula will create assumptions that part of the existing hospital facilities that will be abandoned by building a new hospital turn into a properly arranged and equipped campus and thus create more favourable conditions for future students of what in Pula today we are to be honest there is indeed no and the student conditions are very bad. The colleagues and colleagues of Europe are committed to creating a single higher education space and creating a Europe of knowledge as a prerequisite for development in the new century. The universities, their associations, the governments of the European Union countries have brought in a number of declarations affecting the course of university life not only in the European Union, but in all countries that seek a united Europe, and Croatia certainly wants to do so. The Europe of Knowledge is recognised as an irreplaceable factor in social and human development and as an important component of enriching Europe's membership. The draft, based on the Higher Education Act, was developed in preparation for the adoption of this law by the Minister, says clearly that the development of the University of Pula comes from that mission and objectives and should serve as the basis for a comprehensive reform that would coincide with the reform of higher education and science in the Republic of Croatia and in the European university space. The University of Pula was designed as an autonomous integrated academic community of teachers, researchers, artists and students incorporated into the Croatian international university network that does not compete but is a complementary university in Rijeka as the nearest university. The Global University Development Strategy in Pula includes individual education development strategies, study plans and programmes, the position and role of students in education, the services of higher education teachers, research and development, science, quality organisation system, spatial issues and funding, so all elements. I believe that the initiative that is now being translated into the bill is to create a centre of excellence in northwestern Croatia in Pula based on the principles of equal opportunities that will actively participate in the social and economic life of the population of Croatia. The planned mission of the University of Pula is to develop a school which will contribute to the visibility of the Croatian university community with its quality and quality of scientific and teaching work and will be the hub of the development of this western part of our country and will achieve and maintain a high level of excellence in the teaching and scientific work and in cooperation with the economy in the wisely chosen areas. I am convinced that the establishment of a university will be a strong impulse to develop the economy. The University of Pula must not and will not be a copy of any university, it must be attractive for the dominant population, for students from other Croatian regions, but also for Europe. They must work to create assumptions that someone wants to come to study in Pula because this university has a lot of new technologies, a lot of new knowledge, quality personnel and provides some basics and new comparative advantages that enable further work and further employment. The proposal for a law that is before us and to conclude with this debate is a technical and legal nature that establishes the institution of the university and hardly makes more important remarks possible. In particular, on the grounds that Article 13 is guaranteed in some way that all entities that are grouping together at universities, on the day of entry into the Court Register, the university shall assume all the jobs, work tasks, workers for the course of the work undertaken, equipment, archives, means of work, financial resources and the rights and obligations of the institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Another important article is Article 14 which clearly states that students who have enrolled in the Faculty of Economics and Tourism, Faculty of Philosophy and Teacher School have the right to complete their studies according to the curriculum so that there are no examples. I, too, and the SDP's Club of Representatives, will be happy to support the adoption of this Law establishing a university in Pula. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65331	Thank you. Club IDS, respected representative Valter Drandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65332	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The Law establishing the University of Pula runs for the citizens of Istria probably the most important project in the long term, a project with which everyone in Istria today agrees. The establishment of the University of Pula is certainly an important part of the reconstruction and development of the higher education network in the Republic of Croatia. The founding of the University of Pula is a matter of national importance for us from the IDS. The founding of a university in Pula is a matter of establishing a strong Croatian state institution in Pula. And the establishment of a university in Pula will allow not only the development of science but everything science carries with it. Strengthening the institutions of the Croatian state in Istria is of particular importance and we think it has a special dimension. The IDS is convinced that without a university in Pula there is no suitable economic and overall social growth, there is no necessary competitive capacity and development in the way we would like Istria, which we would like Croatia to have in the coming decades. In considering the University of Pula, historical and cultural assumptions, centuries-old position and development of Istria are certainly important. So far, the development of higher education in Istria County, which Mr. Peru spoke of earlier, is at a high level, and today the availability of personnel is a useful starting point, which will certainly make it easier to create a university. The preparations that lasted over 3 years, public debates with representatives of the economy, political parties, academic communities and others have given a number of useful proposals and suggestions. A unique, favourable social atmosphere was created with the declared support of Istria County, the City of Pula, the Poreč-Pulsic diocese, political parties, universities in Rijeka, various associations and what is particularly important, the entire Istrian economy. Specially significant is the commitment of the institutions themselves that establish and enter the university, which is the Faculty of Philosophy in Pula, Faculty of Economics and Tourism "DR. Mijo Mirković" in Pula, University Library in Pula, and units of Pula's student standard, as well as other institutions or studies that could potentially be included in the university when conditions are met. The university is one of the oldest, one can say the most durable institutions of Western culture. The question is how to form a new university, a university that will benefit and benefit its environment today in the 21st century. It is certainly not easy and simple in all the details to come up with, but the IDS Club estimates that the university in Pula is affected by the true essence, the core of the establishment of universities that will be small, flexible and profiled for certain scientific areas. Now three higher education institutions are operating in Pula as a university in Rijeka. Their association in the new university should achieve the goal of getting Pula, Istria, Croatia such a university that will not be a replica of the existing Croatian universities, but that will be complementary to them, which will be recognizable, quality, pro-pulsive. University that will meet the needs of Pula and Istria and will be the engine of academic and all kinds of development of the western part of Croatia together with the University of Rijeka and in line with all the needs and visions of people living in this part of Croatia. The main idea is to be a university that will contribute to the visibility of the Croatian university community and be the headquarters of the development of the Croatian West with its virtue and quality of teaching and scientific work. The key word for the implementation of this project is virtue, and it is often repeated in this lab, and the university's mission is to achieve and maintain the highest possible level of excellence in the teaching and scientific work. This means hiring an excellent teaching staff to which the University of Pula will be a domicile university. Listing top students from Istria, but also achieving such quality that the University of Pula becomes interesting to students from all over Croatia, and one day to a united Europe to be a university that will attract students from all over Europe. Then this means launching and supporting high-quality scientific research, checking and maintaining high quality teaching, fostering the academic spirit of the university, strengthening the contribution of universities in the region through support of industry, tourism, trade, cultural and any other kind of life and work, developing the international role of universities that we consider to be extremely important, strengthening the management at all levels of universities so as to achieve a successful and effective research of objectives and clearly, what may sometimes be the most difficult, obtaining funds to achieve and achieve all these objectives. The IDS Club believes that the University of Pula will strengthen the entire region through support for the economy and support for political and cultural life. All world experience shows that investment in education is the most effective. Each university programme gives new knowledge, new opportunities to an individual and society, giving new opportunities for development. The city of Pula and Istria County will do everything necessary to establish a university in Pula successfully realizes. This is for Pula, for Istria, for Croatia a historic step, the achievement of the wishes of many Istrian intellectuals and I underline Mate Balota, Dr. Mio Mirkovic by whom he also bears the name of our Faculty of Economics and Tourism. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I must point out personally the Prime Minister recognized that this is the right time to pass this Law, although we in Istria clearly wanted it much earlier. We believe that the Croatian Parliament will pass this Law which will create a strong mechanism for the development of Istria and Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65333	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65334	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As we had the opportunity to hear all the clubs that spoke in front of me will support this Law, the IDS stressed that it is of national importance and I thank the Croatian government once again for successfully ending this process after 3 years of this process. At the beginning of the presentation when we talk about the Law establishing a university in Pula, we actually wonder what the role of the university is and what is the overall contribution of science in the overall development of society, what is the impact of the university on the competitiveness that we had the opportunity to hear and read about a few days ago. The fact is that universities have significant impacts on regional development, the development of a county in which they operate through an increase in regional gross domestic product or employment GDP and income. I will set out here five main ways through which universities usually contribute to the development of the county, and I hope that the County of Istria will also contribute to the future. So universities make revenue, so they spend the revenue they make and attract students who spend on their education, so the university is one income cost center. Universitys are doing scientific research on regional issues or commercial application to enterprises in regions. Universitys can improve the social and cultural life of the region, but most importantly universities educate labour and help attract industry. So universities create human capital. You will agree with me that in today's time capital is no longer a strategic issue number one, that's primarily an educated man I would say and in today's day actually a trained man is in an economic sense one traveling a monopoly of an educated university man who has the freedom to know, to walk and to be. In recent times, the impact of human capital on regional development has been increasingly mentioned in the focus of regional growth research. Many studies carried out confirm the link and the positive impact of the university on the GDP increase in the region. The unique conclusions imposed on the influence of the university on regional development and the reasons for their establishment can primarily be taken into account under research conducted in universities, significant monetary resources concentrated on funding and research which makes a major contribution to GDP growth, university research has a strong and profound impact on the productivity of the economy and university research are the source of potential discoveries that fundamentally affect economic growth and quality of life. The University of Pula will have an important impact of university education on a change in health life, psychological and material stability of graduate students, thus reducing costs in the county. The University of Pula will make a difference from other operators in the economy important and beneficial for both the economy and the state, and especially for the community in which it will act. How do universities work on this development? The modern process of education at universities combines education and training, so theories and practices train students to be flexible and adaptable to the needs of work. Through the education of students, the intellectual and cultural diversity of the community is increasing, leading to equal representation of everyone, but let us wonder what the fact situation today is in Croatia, or what the assessment of Croatian competitiveness in the global world looks like, rather than in a closed economy in which we may occasionally observe our universities. These days, we have had the opportunity to read that Croatia is on 59th place on the World Competitiveness Year scale this year, and only Venezuela and Indonesia are behind us. In this... the government's research, so the Croatian government is first rated and ranked better than the business sector and Croatian managers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The main reasons are the inefficient administrations and supervisory committees, the inadmissibility of the company's market conditions and business inethicalness. You will agree with me that it is precisely the biggest of these responsibilities at Croatian universities, and I believe in the future University of Pula. The main role in this process of education therefore has universities in both national and regional development and I believe that the University of Pula will play this positive role that we are giving it here today. In the area of Europe, the tendency to follow the Bologna Declaration, which among other things provides a fundamental establishment of an upgrade and reform of the university. Independently, the European Commission's view is that it must encourage the establishment of higher education institutions as instruments that contribute to the development of the local community. As the representative of Peru noted in his presentation today in Istria in all high schools in the previous school year, 3 thousand and 400 students were enrolled at around 1.65% while the percentage in Croatia was around 2.4 and in developed countries 3.5 to 4.8%. When it is being watched by the faculty, the higher prepared in Istria is a slightly higher average than in Croatia, but in developed countries it is over 30% so that I believe that this ministry will have all the universities and this new, very, very much work to achieve the average, therefore, of the European Union. Following... The trend of Istria must be upgraded by existing higher education institutions as we have heard today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This includes the Faculty of Economics and Tourism Dr. Mio Miroković, Faculty of Philosophy in Pula, Teacher's Academy and Library. A total of 24 curricula programmes are currently being implemented, of which 11 university, 13 district and 1 post-plomic, and 318 scientific staff are included in the course. She's getting into the existing three colleges for sure and finally, we've seen her profile after a long number of years as a university town and there's no dilemma that in the future some other colleges will live within a new university in Pula. This flexible university will be accompanied by systematic research, hence the necessary personnel structures and, if necessary, extend the teaching area and upgrade existing international educational activities. First of all, I am referring to the possible hosting of foreign lecturers, but also the arrival of possible foreign students at the University of Pula. First of all, I would like this university to create a productive scientific mind, so not only people who will receive positive grades, but who will make a full contribution to the overall development of the Istrian economy and Croatian society in general and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65335	Thank you. Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65336	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs! Once again, I want to thank you for waiting these three, four minutes because I know it is not the usual and my most sincere apology but it best shows how many Croatian Parliament and Mr. President are holding to education and thank you from the heart for that. This is an immensely important topic for us to skip. If you'll excuse me, I'd just like to say a few things in the end. Regarding the world's list of competitiveness you were talking about is only one segment in Croatia's overall competitiveness because Croatia is the first place in 59th place to go so high and far away, which is education in 44th place. And almost every country in the transition that has entered the European Union is behind us. ... And we're ahead of Slovenia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I would if you let me say one more thing that is very important for the concept of modern Croatian higher education. According to the latest data, and I received them recently at a meeting of European Union ministers, Croatia at the European average is about 3.1% of the total population studying and the United States is already moving towards 6% today. We simply don't have a second chance to raise that percentage if we're not going to do it right through this model of small flexible competitive universities and I honestly believe that right now, Pula. There is not a single student program that overlaps across the region. On the other hand, Pula has united four key concepts that we think are the basis of a modern European university. First, from the whole program, we are already talking about excellence today. Another thing, on the concept that was made, we are talking about competitiveness and it is not negligible in this place to say that the University of Pula has full rights to apply employees to scientific projects, technology projects and scientific recruits. That's excellent. You, if you're not a member of the university, you can't go according to scientific money because you have no right. And in these two and a half years alone, almost a thousand scientific recruits, let me remind you that 10% of the best diplomats in Croatia have been employed at universities. So without that component of an independent university, you don't have a chance to develop into the concept of a modern university. The real test that we've predicted through these student programs, I must commend the indeed Rector's Assembly here, I must commend the Rector's Assembly and, first of all, the University of Rijeka, which is mobility. Already the first year of study for students who will be at the University of Pula is secured mobility right through compatible student programmes where they can get anywhere else... points in Croatia or beyond the borders of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the point. Let me remind you of the information from ten years ago, I studied medicine, and here is Mr. Bagarić. You had a problem with the comparativeity of the third year of study of medicine within one Croatian university with the third year of another Croatian university... and here we are saying that at the beginning we have a fully compatible study program that corresponds to any of the European universities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's a big step for Croatian schooling. And if you allow me in the end, Croatia has chosen the way and Mr. Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out that it is not as strong as the city of Zagreb, but as strong as the rest of Croatia is. Political development had the courage and strength to establish the Velečište in Vukovar, Knin, University of Pula but very quickly and Veleuščište in Gospić and some other places. And I honestly believe that this is a step that will make Croatia very competitive. Let me just say it. About the time Croatia chose the path of the Bologna process three and a half years ago, four years earlier there were large reserves. Today, countries that have told me and ministers that they should go parallel with both systems, old and new have made a mistake because within one Austria and Slovenia you have two systems that are not compatible and they are coming to Croatia to learn from us about the Bologna process. Therefore, I was extremely pleased to hear comments about the University of Pula and I think we will all have a lot of reasons to celebrate very quickly but I would also say pride after a young new Croatian university which will already be competitive on the world labour market tomorrow. Mr. President!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65337	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65338	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'll start by saying that the HSS Club will, of course, support this law, it's not at all controversial, and I'm now in a great bit of a dilemma to be honest with you about how your debate is conjectured. I've prepared a lot of materials, however, based on these shows on the club's behalf, and also Mr. Minister, I've received information that is not in this material. I was sixteen years old at the University of Informatics and I had probably seven hundred, eight hundred seminars, two hundred, three hundred graduates, master's degree, doctoral, but this is a bad explanation. For such a useful initiative and a good initiative, it took a little more data. Should I have learned from Mr. Minister that there was an elaborate on which there were many objections that were removed. In this explanation, if we carefully read it, there is virtually no information, it writes only something in general. And I repeat, I am for the University of Pula, although I disagree with the minister to say that a university network is closed with the Pula University. We'll see about that. Varazdin has his own initiatives, too. ... Of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't worry, Varazdin has enough quality. ... I didn't see what the National Council said here, as the Rector's Assembly said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know how to be honest here, but at least I heard a little bit that certain conditions were created, both spatial and financial, and humane. The spaces are defined in Article 3. I am glad to hear from my colleague Drandić and my colleague, Peru, that there is plenty of space there and that there will also be room for a dormitory which is needed for a university and so on. The financial preconditions of a million and 716 thousand kuna will probably be enough for this start for this winter semester, but let's be sure, we all know together, that for a future period it will take far more money. So if we want to develop the university as it belongs and listen there are administrations, there are equipment, devices. The cabinets need to be arranged. So you're going to have to secure the funds. We assume in the State budget it will take far more. Also when we talk about this third prerequisite, and as I said, it is humane I would like to have as much data here at these universities that enter universities, which is the Faculty of Economics and Tourism "Doctor Mijo Mirković", the Faculty of Philosophy and the High School of Education as many scientific recruits, how many assistants, how many docents, how many extraordinary, how many regular professors we would then get the data. Well, it's all pre-conditions. I unfortunately didn't see it in this extension. But now I've heard in this opening oral explanation that human pre-conditions are also created. That makes me very happy because if it's only to be created right now, then that would be a big problem. I'd also like to know which studies are being studied or what classes are being conducted? I've heard they're not, they're not contrary to the University of Rijeka. So that's all being said now in the introduction. But in order for this to turn out to be a review of the university, I just had to do a little digging to be... which was not written in this explanation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just gonna try to finish it somehow. I think this is the first reading. Mr. President... First reading? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Well, I'd like that, for another reading to be ordered by this data to be... that there was a elaborate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What did the draft say about how many cities in Pula, how many Istrian County, how many scientific and teaching personnel will there be? Then it is much nicer for us all to read, and then we look forward to having a strong university centre in Istria and in that part of Croatia we also want to create a strong university centre and support it. Of course I repeat I need to open up one serious debate about what it is... University network in the Republic of Croatia? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you base any more at the center? Is there or is there no potential? But, of course, it's not about this point, so I'm not going to talk about it. It was said to be predicted if I remembered correctly, five to six thousand students a year that they would enroll. That's a little bit, that got me a little confused. I think that's it, three? Yeah. Okay, and that's already quite good. And I think it can then increase when additional preconditions are created that will be needed to create them. Here I would just ask that for another reading be entered into this introductory explanation all the data we need, but I'm saying there's no doubt that we're going to support this project at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65339	Thank you. Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65340	Thank you very much for your discussion. If you allow me, I also support all of your efforts and I have at least a number of classes like you, but in America, I assure you that the trend of reducing the administration at the university is not an increase. But what I want to tell you is there's no doubt that both the Ministry and the National Council will support if tomorrow's intensities for a new high-quality university there... All conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it happens in Varazdin, anywhere else. But we have a system, right? It's the National Council. So that, there's no fear of that happening. But I would like to point out one thing that is extremely important. When it comes to reasoning, it should be brief and clear. We did it. Here's the whole lab that's been delivered to everyone and I'll be happy to give you a full copy. He was open, where every doctor, teacher, financial structure inside. And we, when we chose that path, and this was agreed by the members of the Committee that the elaborate was going and the explanation. Well, maybe that's the only thing, maybe it's our fault we didn't deliver the copy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the only thing. Here's the data. Here. Here, Mr. President, that's it. So based on the elaborates, everything's done, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65341	Thank you very much. We still have three clubs, five MPs, and now we're gonna break up because they're gonna come in. The first is on behalf of the HNS Club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. So then a respected representative on behalf of SDP Ivo Josipovic and a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Ministers therefore proceed tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. The session was interrupted at 6:57 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session and the debate on the proposal for a law establishing a university in Pula. On behalf of the HNS Club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65343	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Of course it is my pleasure to welcome this initiative on behalf of the HNS Club as well as any initiative to expand the network of higher education institutions in Croatia. There's more to it than that. The first and most important for me are our intentions, I hope, all of us here, that Croatian society will be a more just society, a society that will give chances to all young people to come to the education they need to function normally in this millennium, and that is definitely not the educational average we have today. By expanding the network, the opportunity will also be given to those who today, for this and that reason, from financial to family or someone else, are not. Of course, these odds could spread in a different way. There are countries in Europe and in the world that function well with a relatively centralised system of higher education. However, with a scholarship system that includes everything, all those who are willing and intend to study. The percentage then rises significantly above Croatia. One way to do this can be seen today in the Varazdin County system of scholarships to all who have the will to function, study functions today. But this is also one way of spreading the odds. It should be supported from this aspect, but also from the aspect of monitoring the needs of the region's economy as highlighted in the explanation, and it is possible to make it a university organisation. Namely, old universities, conditionalally speaking old type of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek are more or less inert organisms and it is difficult to turn them in a new direction in essence for objective reasons sub-specialization. You cannot respond as quickly and efficiently to the challenges of the market as possible in this model of the university organisation, the departmental model of the organization of universities where both programs and people spill over from one side to the other and where it is relatively simpler to do so. The third important reason why this step should be supported is to raise the overall level of education, especially the level of education in post-secondary education. So, the one after high school. This level for us is 11.9, 12, which is something of a total working situation which is half the European Union average, and a third of those countries that we set as an example of Ireland, Finland and so on. Amazing data read in the media the other day. Some far east countries have 80% of the population post-secondary education. It's obvious they didn't do it so that classical universities overslept the number of students, lower the criteria, and then all those people let them out with diplomas. They made it so they expanded the network. So, steps like this. This expansion of the network involves not only this kind of high school institution. So, universities. I hope he doesn't start with colleges as legal entities in the future. It was finally found by law that it could not continue to function, so universities organised on the departmental principle, as well as universities, a network of universities that should yet be established in Croatia. It began to be established with three, four functional universities. That network should be expanded because not to be fooled by these 30, 40 or South Korea 70, 80% of highly educated people didn't all leave Oxford and Cambridge, of course. They also came out of polytechnics, they came out of high schools, they came out of something now called “university of applied sciences” in Europe and what until recently was called “university colleges” or “Fach of schule” depends on the country that Croatia is trying to establish. Some of these institutions are invigorating and functioning well. Some not so good. It turns out that starting a university in university centers doesn't make much sense because I'm intertwining these studies and especially human beings, and then spatially, and the equipment and it didn't prove to be God-knows-how good move. But what the ministry has at least declared has now launched is a university in Knin, Vukovar, Gospić. There's a university in Karlovac, Požega. It should work if we want a real level of education, a post-secondary education raised to that level that we can function in a world of the 21st century where definitely secondary school education, this government decision of the other day confirms it. High school education is just a basic basis for moving into the world of knowledge and education. There's more to the problem. They are also indicated in this explanation of the establishment of a university in Pula. The first and the main problem is the problem of personnel, the problem of people. I've been working at the university for 30 years, and I know where it is, which is actually the hardest. We have been rebelling all along about the poor restoration of the spring, small scientific recruits, small employment opportunities. However, even if these employment opportunities were to be opened, we would not be doing so much better. There are few people in Croatia who are ready and able to take full responsibility in this system. Especially when it's connected to a funding system, of course, and miniature salaries at universities and universities, but not just that. Most of the people who work there, it's not the primary thing that hits them. The primary problem is the inability to do what they think they need to do, can do what they want to do. Therefore, weaknesses in financing activities are higher education institutions in terms of the purchase of equipment, in terms of the possibility of contact with the world, so if obviously in terms of buying magazines, books and such things. Some times it's a big problem. So the problem with the frames is first. This university can solve this problem in a relatively simple way, by working with a nearby University of Rijeka so that the frames can be exchanged. And it is expected, since it is a region near the western borders of Croatia that some foreign experts will be able to handle it. And that university in the very near future, the University of Pula will achieve the human circle as necessary. A fundamental, second fundamental problem that is also mentioned in this explanation is the problem of funding higher education institutions. What's happening this year actually affects the very essence of functioning. In this year some of the colleges I have contacts with at least I don't know about these major colleges, law, economy and that in Zagreb, have received the funds necessary for these four months. So the grant, so to call it for material and other expenses at one month's level. Colleges manage by spending resources from other sources, scientific projects and similar things, for normal everyday functioning, to buy paper, to pay the phone, to pay the director's fee and so on. However, one uncertainty atmosphere is created and this atmosphere is bad for work. For the new university, a million and 700 thousand kunas are foreseen for the functioning of the rector and the organization of the university. Because for the functioning of those three institutions that make it, there are already funds provided for in the Rijeka University budget. I think if at the beginning these funds go at the pace they go, the way they go at the good part of the higher education institutions in Croatia will create a pessimistic atmosphere, what we have established if there is no money for it. Obviously, the solution is not to talk about it today. Today we should all praise and raise our hands absolutely for opening the University of Istria, University of Pula. The moment that these problems need to be discussed is the discussion of the budget. The Croatian budget this year envisioned funding for higher education at last year's level, including 3 per cent optimistic inflation already spent. Which basically means a drop in funds because the network is spreading. There is a moment and there is a point of the agenda in which we should really advocate the society of knowledge, for raising the level of education in Croatia and for new universities and universities in Croatia. when you're talking in the budget. That's where we show what we really think about these problems. Of course, the HNS Club will support this proposal with all its support, congratulate the colleagues in Istria who have done a good job, a room job not only for Istria, but also for Croatia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65344	Thank you very much. SDP club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. He's gone, the club's losing its word. The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65345	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to say clearly and unequivocally that the Croatian party club gives strong and unreserved support to this proposal of the Law establishing the University of Pula. Pula, which ships well through its third millennium as an urban settlement, certainly deserves a university, because it realizes all the statistical and socio-cultural assumptions that have been given in the bill, and especially in the laboratory on the establishment of the University of Pula. And I don't think there are any, that both the elaborate and the bill's proposal speak for themselves enough and that we don't need to analyze them further. Because everything that's written there is actually standing. In particular, this is justified in the context of the new European trends contained in the Bologna Declaration on the Development of Smaller and Flexible, according to the programmes of more flexible universities, which are more complementary and integrated than competitive for the academic community. Pula has in its history had its ups and downs, from the Ilir settlement through a great Roman era, stagnation in the period of Byzant and Franak, marginal roles and declines at the time of the mistress of the sea Serenisima, or Venice, to a new takeoff 150 years ago when Pula drew the fate of the Austro-Hungarian warport and the strongest state shipyard. The establishment of the University of Pula is certainly the biggest and most beautiful gift this year because it comes at a time when Pula will solemnly celebrate the 150th anniversary of the founding and continuous work of the shipyard in Pula which is a symbol of development and the newer history of Pula. We in Croatia's pensioners appreciate that the establishment of the University of Pula, that the establishment of the University of Pula is the best investment for the future, the historic step and the guarantee of future development of Pula and wider homeland. This is because the creation of intellectual capital, the capital of knowledge, the creation of a prerequisite for its concentration and binding to the local space, the origin means the security and progress of the community. So the exchange of knowledge with the world on the principle of reciprocity, involvement in European Union projects and beyond, that means that, compared to the previous large dispersion of the academic community around the world tomorrow, we can expect a higher concentration of the academic community in Istria and a kind of commitment to realisation and implementation of new development projects to our space with which this academic community will be in a particularly emotional relationship. To be even clearer, we in Croatia think that the establishment of the University of Pula will be a generator of the development of the academic community of Istria and a contribution to Croatia and will enable the creation of top-notch, therefore excellent professional personnel. It should definitely mean that in one medium term, assumptions would be made that it would be more sacrilegious to think that we would, for example. Master's tourism plan is made by the Spanish. By creating assumptions for the development of the academic community, the guarantee is to develop and mature political relations and democracy on the Istrian peninsula. The university as a knowledge-sharing and knowledge-sharing centre also enables the implementation of this knowledge in a local and wider community is a sort of demographic anchor, binds people and space, but also a social anchor that can contribute to the creation of high-value jobs in exchange for the clean sale of labour. It would be inappropriate at this point to be overly euphoric, proud and optimistic, yes, but also realistic. The adoption of law on the establishment of the University of Pula is the first major one, I stress the first major step just as the sinking of the ship into the sea which requires additional financial efforts from the local community, the city of Pula and the County of Istria to complete the content of the entire system and to arrange all the contents of the university centre. So there's and there's still a lot of work and commitment to come. Personally, I think that the city of Pula and the County of Istria, with the firm support of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, demonstrates with this act the firm will and intention of Pula to become a new pearl on the necklace of the University Community of Croatia and an example of further politilateral development and the University Community in accordance with our needs and European orientations and trends. Finally, the Croatian Retired Party Club will vote in favour of this bill as I have said firmly supporting this project and will also be advocacy of this project at local level. I also thank you personally as a citizen of the city of Pula, all the clubs that support the adoption of this law and the establishment of the University of Pula, as I thank all colleagues and colleagues in this Croatian Parliament in advance who will take part in the debate and support this project, i.e. the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65346	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65347	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The HSP club will certainly support the proposal for a law establishing the University of Pula. There are three important reasons for us to point out here, which is why we need to support it. The first important reason is that if we establish universities, universities in regional centres, means in other parts of Croatia, in this way we clearly provide the possibility of a larger number of Croatian citizens mainly young people that they can acquire a high level of professional training, which is very important given the current moment and the situation of Croatia regarding the situation in the social image economy. Because we need to be aware of the fact that this cruel and unscrupulous form of capitalism that is in operation in Croatia is increasingly making it impossible for children of Croatian defenders, workers, peasants and worse property to sign up and come and get a higher professional education. One way to enable this is to establish universities within regional centres, but I think another important reason to allow Croatia to have as much as possible, and we know as many highly educated people, young experts, we know that the picture is pretty bad compared to the countries of the European Union. I don't think it's what Mr Vuljanic said about 10 to 12%, even about 7 to 8% of highly educated people in Croatia. In parallel, this system of scholarship and lending should be developed so as to promote excellence and to allow talented boys and girls at all to be able to enroll in universities and to be able to acquire knowledge and finish and to give their contribution to Croatia's development. Because if we don't go with such measures, that situation will happen to us that the children of those who stole this country will have everything and will be able to sign up everywhere, and everything will be accessible to them, because with the increase and tuition, the reduction of the number of those registration quotas and the various other situations of children of Croatian defenders, children of workers, peasants and worse, from all the structures of the poorer property will not be able to get into the situation at all, nor will they have any money for that part of schooling. Another important reason for the Croatian Party's assessment of the rights to support this law is the new model that is being introduced, which is the organisation and implementation of studies, means teaching depending on the needs of the market. It is the part that is very important where there are always a huge number of problems in Croatia, but I would like to hear from the promoters how they intend to do it. Because this is nice, here the law is given if we look at the provisions, it regulates only this part of the technical which is necessary to establish a university, how and how it will be legally implemented and what it is necessary to do, but this is one for me and the HSP club a rather important provision that would be related to future activities, and hopefully also some other universities and universities that will be established in Croatia and in general, which means, how do you plan to do it. Because I think the right answer, if you look at the number of unemployed in Croatia, if you look at the number at the Croatian Employment Service and this part of the problem about the development of the economy, obviously we want to know how the government is thinking about doing this part, which is very important to me. And the third important reason why this should be supported is also the part that we gain this independent education and that this enables all layers of Croatian citizens, means education, but it is important after that to lead the appropriate policy so that highly educated people do not leave Croatia because they do not have general opportunities to get jobs in Croatia. Therefore, we will support this bill, but I say I would like to hear from the minister and the answers to these important things that are mentioned here, and regarding this, it means that studies will be organised and carried out depending on the needs of the market. And also hear this part of how and how it will satisfy what everything and the Bologna Process and everything that is sought for and for the staff at this university, to teach and everything else that is important for the functioning of such a university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65348	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow is the reception ceremony for the 15th anniversary of the referendum, so tomorrow is just the part, and today at 6:00 we would vote on the points discussed. At 9 and 50, the time has expired to apply for a debate on this agenda point. For the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, respected representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65349	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Pula has long waited for her university. For decades, at least 50 years in Pula, there's been talk of a university. Pula has the right to attend university for several reasons. First, because Pula is a city of culture. Secondly, because Pula City is multinational, multiethnic, it's very important, I'll tell you later why, colleagues from HDZ. Yeah, I'll tell you why. And third, because Pula's center...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65350	Please, please, no objections. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65351	Thank you for protecting me, Mr. President. And third, because Pula is the center of one county with, if you're going to take a good look, with a special statute. Istria has a different statute than there are other regions. For that statute, as you know, we fought for seven years, he was challenged. 30 articles of this Statute were also disputed, 36 precisely, 18 concerned the Italian national minority. Finally, we reached a compromise in 2001 or 2002, I think that statute was passed. The statute sets Istria up, if no one will be angry, in a different position than other counties. Why does the university matter? Because in our efforts, Istria should become a region as well as some other county that will have such ambitions in the future. And to become a region, of course it is desirable, and some say it is necessary to have a university. That's the third, not the first, that's the third reason Istria and Pula really need to have a university. I hope that when the statute of this university is written, hopefully it will write inside what we are from the national minorities, and here I come about more national problems, binary or more national, whatever you want, that's where I come from and what I'm talking about today. For another reason, the first is that I'm a Puljanin or a Pulezen, as we say. So, the moment the statutes are written that what we're talking about Istria will be written all the time, and that means that the university will be bilingual. Like Pula, the city is bilingual, as is Istria County with a statute which unlike many other counties, of all others, affirms bilingualism in official use, and the work at the university also belongs to some kind of secure official use of language. So, the National Minority Club welcomes the establishment of a university in Pula for all these reasons. Because of what is necessary, because Pula is a city of culture, because it will be like Pula specific and Istria specific because we hope that the university will also be specific, it will be bilingual because of cooperation with other universities and because Pula is a bilingual city. That is why we of the Club of National Minorities will certainly vote for this Law and with impatience we will wait for the statute to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65352	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Walter Poropat, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65353	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The founding of a university in Pula is a matter of national importance, a question of establishing a strong state institution in Pula that will allow not only the development of science but everything science carries with it. And I am convinced that our economic growth and overall social growth with the University of Pula will be appropriate and competitive in the way we want Istria in the coming time and in the way that Istria certainly deserves it. The main idea is that this university will contribute to the visibility of the university community and will be the hub of the development of the Croatian West with its virtue and quality of teaching and scientific work. I must say, it's a key word in the exercise of virtue. Quality in all aspects, and the university mission is just to achieve and maintain the highest possible level of excellence in the teaching and scientific work. In achieving this, the university’s main objectives should certainly be to employ excellent teaching staff and thus, in fact, to this teaching staff, this university should be a domicile university. To enroll top students from Istria and that the University of Pula should be such a university that will be interesting to students from all over Croatia, but also a university that will be recognizable as a university that will attract students from all parts of Europe. In the context of today's trends at universities in Europe and in creating a higher education European space, a common, harmonised space, we must stand in a position not to separate science from high education at the university, i.e. that the university must not miss research but must be complementary and that a strong university can be a strong university precisely because it is a pre-graduate, graduate and postgraduate study, i.e. all three cycles provided for under the Bologna Declaration are based on and following what is thought or explored at that university and only such a university can strengthen the entire region through support for economic, political, cultural and standard of life as a whole. The University of Pula will be small and flexible, the study will be organised and conducted depending on the needs of the market and profiled for certain scientific areas. Therefore, the basic characteristics of the University of Pula would be systematic monitoring of the demand for staff on the labour market and, accordingly, the gradual expansion of the area from which teaching will take place from technical, biotechnical and social areas initially in the humanistic future. The University of Pula is a real necessity of life and I believe that the Law establishing a university in Pula in this House of Higher Education will receive unanimous support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65354	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65355	Thank you, Mr. President. The university builds societies of knowledge and societies that hold to knowledge and science. The foundation of another university in Croatia is the contribution of science, economic, social security and equality. This is a contribution to progress in general. Science simply promotes science and opens up new opportunities. Istria County is GDP and employment, as well as the standard in general, if we exclude Zagreb in front of others in Croatia for a number of reasons. Among other things, she was protected from both war and destruction. Nevertheless, the Istrian space was abandoned by young people and went to larger centers and to the world. The premises of a show that did not provide academic education are faced with this phenomenon. So it's been proven that places that don't have their universities move out and stagnate. I think there should be recognition here with both Zagreb and Rijeka and all other universities where people from Istria studied, so they were one worthy substitution. In a time of globalisation that simply cannot be stopped as such, but its negative consequences can be corrected between education and the establishment of a university. Finally, I want every good university and happy entry into Croatia and the world academic community. Its success will depend on the level of ability to cooperate with the rest of the academic community in Croatia and the world, as well as on the quality of human and material potentials it will have. Also of our support which is very important and which apparently our university has, or a mere university. Mr. Minister, on Ruđer Boskovic's birthday, so today, born in 1711, I congratulate you on such a beautiful, beautiful bill as the future university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65356	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65357	I join all those who have so far shown their support for this proposal of the Law establishing a university in Pula, all those who not only for the sake of this proposal of the University of Pula but also for the direction of the movement in which the Croatian society should go, that it is precisely a practice that will at the level of consensus that is not the result of imperatives, but which is the result of the perception and of the view that the knowledge society is the only society of the future, that knowledge society is something that symbolizes progress in almost all segments of society. There is, of course, always a certain dilemma that arises from the fact that the system of evaluation is, what is the system of application of knowledge in the Republic of Croatia, in which we respond and with what quality we respond to the challenges that are placed daily in front of Croatian society, primarily as a knowledge society, but also as a society in which knowledge needs to be applied, in which knowledge should be a tool in the hands of a capable and organised population to build a better future. Of course, I was personally impressed in terms of the reasons and the consequences that were stated that it would be a small, flexible, profitable university with precise scientific fields. I think that sentence actually contains the essence of the thesis on this particular example and that it should be universal. Such thinking should be universal to me, and it should go from looking for reasons why it should be such in one area, and in another area perhaps somewhat different organised. The needs of Croatian society are different, they range from the lowest knowledge needs arising from basic education to the education that we can call applied, in which they are sought, in which knowledge is sought which will be directly applied. In that sense, I've talked about it many times, and otherwise, Mr. Minister, I've launched an initiative to revive my kind of school of old crafts. It is not and should not be seen as a measure that wants to be conservatively and unacceptable today to protect it at the level of a cultural good but rather the opposite. Schools of old crafts first of all I want to see and evaluate in the context of the need of modern Croatian society. Schools of old crafts are not and would not be Croatian innovation. They can meet in most organised societies of the European Union, and they come from the fact that certain old crafts should be evaluated precisely for the need of a future that in some ways comes upon just such aspirations. The school of old crafts, which I had spoken with your assistants in an idea variant, was to present all the old trades that did not disappear from life in Croatia but disappeared from the textbook, disappeared from the possibility of passing that knowledge on to a new generation. What do I mean? I'm talking about wooden shipbuilding. I mean certain trades that just exist and everyone pretends they're gone. And then, of course, if society doesn't give a positive direction of movement in that sense, then it's also going to be crafted and these forms of knowledge that are very applicable and we like to brag about how we have the falcuses that we burn every year, there are three left, so when we burn those three, we won't have that burning ritual anymore. At the same time, the launch of this innovation in wooden shipbuilding, which has its place not only on the market that recognizes such a product, which will certainly be for the sake of material and for the sake of a simple good acceptance in the modern world, become a brand of the future, we lose step with it. While one Turkey in its available capacities is increasing these capacities year by year and today represents the largest manufacturer of wooden shipbuilding on the Mediterranean. Is this connected to this bill we're talking about? Of course, because it is about knowledge and the way it should be promoted. That is why I, Mr. Minister, would fully support this direction of movement, the development of knowledge in the Republic of Croatia, ask that these mini-projects relating to certain segments of knowledge acquisition or to the compensation of that knowledge that we have missed that just such institutions that can act on some of our islands in some of our environments and that have an audience to say so because today has become a profitable activity, today has become profitable to be a carpenter, to be a ship's technician. Unfortunately, you don't have that. And unfortunately, neither the knowledge nor the education system monitors the needs it already has today and exists in the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, such small segments that need to be gathered around are additional contributions and additional thesis that the University of Pula also has its place and will find its fullness of application, I think it is necessary to talk first of all, the application that a new generation will come out of Pula that will further strengthen the strength of Istrian tourism and Istrian knowledge and specificities that exist in that part. But again, let's not forget the great potentials that lie in the areas of certain traditional dealings with certain returning activities that are once again becoming a world brand in terms of not only cultural representation, not just what is nice to see but in terms of profit and practical life that can be realized by affirming those values that have disappeared but have not disappeared from life, but above all from books and textbooks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65358	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65359	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, This law is as good a law as any. Pula and Istria certainly deserve such an institution. The budget will cost the establishment of a university this year or provide a million 716 thousand kuna or 250 thousand euros. It is clear that in the coming years this will be much more, but they also have in mind the economic position of Istria about which something Mr. Bagaric spoke about from the fact that after exporting we are right behind Zagreb, but the people in Istria are three times bigger than in the city of Zagreb, not counting tourism with almost 90% of the coverage of exports, without counting the tourism that is 40% of Croatian tourism and the note only mentioning that the profits of Istrian tourism are seven times larger than the overall remaining Croatian tourism 700% higher, seven times. Keeping in mind the growing entry of relevant capital, bearing in mind the fact that Istria today has 30 thousand voters more than in 2005, and that the only space with Zagreb that has more inhabitants today than 1991, bearing in mind 6 to 7% unemployment, in last year's figures the average unemployment was 6 thousand 374, in the Primorje-Gorski County, which has 100 thousand inhabitants more than 17,000 575, is almost twice as high as in Istria, etc., that I do not collect any other data. Indeed, I did not see any reason why such an initiative was waiting so long and why governments passed without the University of Istria or Pula. Finally, this government has accepted the initiative and now it is clearly necessary to support the institution's creation. It may be essential to Article 15 that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint a temporary Rector of the University within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law on the proposal of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. I suggest finding common language around the rector, even though I know there will probably be no problem. Istria may, as someone said, be able to attract some of the students from neighbouring countries and may stay home in the future because many who go the way of Trieste, Udin, Venice, Florence, and so on. That's where they stay. I have no choice but to wish normally a good start to the university and to support this law by wondering why it was not found today in the emergency procedure when we saw that it was completely freed from any ideological differences between local self-government, government and between individual representation clubs. Of course I share my opinion with Mr Furia Radina about the bilingual university as elements of a regional recognition. Of course, when I've listed some economic parameters, I don't think that pensioner in Istria with 1800 kuna is in a better position than that pensioner in Vukovar. One who has 4,000 kuna salaries in Uljannik or 5 is not in a better position than the one in Split and so on. Whoever's unemployed anyway isn't in a better position either. However, I believe that this legal proposal will improve the quality of life. That it will certainly in some way qualityly define the future of these spaces. Make more accessible access to the University, to people from that space and clearly improve the visibility, the identity of these spaces. Here is a desire for the legislative proposal to be referred as soon as possible to another procedure, and I welcome the initiative in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65360	Thank you. HNS club Miljenko Doric, a respected representative. Five-minute debate What? ... [[The intruders don't understand.]] Yeah, we can see that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65361	Thank you very much. And my colleagues saw that I was holding a bat. He's a colleague of Cain's. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Here's the minister. [[Intruder: Everyone saw except us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65362	And the minister? Oh, that's already, there's...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65363	In his nice speech, Mr. President Kajin said in his omak speech that tourism in Istria is 7 times larger than in other parts of Croatia. According to the available data to be measured by the number of nights, the number of visitors...... What is measured by the satellite balance, which is measured by all the data that I have available and which I have managed to collect so far, is simply not accurate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He'd be good, but he's not right. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65364	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure according to the representatives of Mr Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65365	On the basis of Articles 209 and 214 I would just like to fence myself from this qualification. I didn't even talk about it. I was saying that the profit of Istrian tourism is 7 times or 700% greater than all Croatian tourism combined. And this information is very well known to the chairman of the Tourism Committee because we were at the same meeting where this information was presented. 700% higher. Maybe that's because naive people are down there, so they pay taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65366	This is really a school example of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That should get into the textbooks. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65367	Mr. President and Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is therefore not disputed that the primary, one of the primary tasks of this government and several future governments are to work to significantly improve the education structure in the Republic of Croatia. So this is one of the absolute priority tasks because we see today that there is one parallelism between the development of the economy, the country, its competitiveness and the clearly educational structure. Look at Finland. Finland has 30% of the people with higher education and higher education. Normally, this is very valid and explains why they are at the top of the competition in Europe and the world. Therefore, absolute support from the HNS Club related to the task. But now the question is, I'm going to think a little loudly about some of my dilemmas, but also about the dilemmas we had at the club. How do you do that? This can be achieved by enrolling a number of students at existing universities or by establishing new regional universities. There are advantages and disadvantages in both models. The benefits clearly if you go through enrolment of students to the current universities are existing cadre, clearly available equipment, existing projects. The system is already functioning very well, but on the other hand, the advantage of regional, small, modern universities is that they are much easier, much closer, much faster involved and approaching the economic needs of the region. They're more often hired by county structures. Here in the Primorje-Goran County we have highly engaged the university in solving many of our projects. Therefore, these advantages should be absolutely discussed and, in my opinion, modernly, a small university in Pula would absolutely be welcome right now and me and members of the HNS Club support such thinking. But I'd like to add something and ask the minister to help out a little bit. You know, ministers, that through the "Tempus" and through a number of other international institutions, scholarships can be made to perfect staff. I personally think you should help young universities, new universities, small universities to get priority. It is not easy for them to stand out for these scholarships sometimes, for these upgrades, but it is certain that, especially when it comes to state scholarships, the fact that they do not have a large "background" but that their future is great and that they should certainly be helped there. What is also missing is one coordination between all those who should create human resources policy in Croatia. State, county, local self-government they have to say how much they need, which personnel. The university should certainly sit at that same meeting, but the Chamber of Commerce should also sit at that meeting. Such a meeting is never organised in Croatia. You know? We have to start working with that at last. Since my first light is on, I'm going to answer what's been said in the discussion, a bilingual university. You're making a mistake. Minimum trilingual. 99 whole, 99% of the magazines in your future library at the University of Pula will be in English. Postgraduate study can only go to you in English if... A modern, European university and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So don't think like that. English do not forget, even try in many studies, on profiles suppress both Croatian and Italian at the expense of English so that the Istrians can be clearly involved in the European and world division of work as quickly and as efficiently as possible. Flexible university, yes. Small universities are easier to adapt to. I'll just tell you what's wrong with the big mammoths of the university. Programs have to change from year to year, modernize. You in the world today at the most successful universities, at the most successful universities, change 10 to 30% of programs every year. So, new technologies are being thrown out, new technologies are being introduced. So those who are unable to maintain that rhythm certainly do not fall clearly into a modern or flexible university. Therefore, please keep an eye on that. There you must make clear the first significant steps. In 1993, we in Rijeka tried to go towards a modern, functional university. So, that works on the departmental principle. We didn't make it. We've been at it for 30 years. We were trying to form the departments of natural sciences. We didn't make it. We will gladly point out to you colleagues and colleagues what caused this, so that you would not make the same mistakes. I wish you of course a lot of success in the work of the University of Pula and I say all the help I will give you from Rijeka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65368	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65369	Thank you very much. We're not wrong, Mr. Doric. We know very well that English is the communication of international, in science, in politics, in almost all domains of human communication. It's bilingual. It's not just communication. It is bilingual because the Istrian County has a Statute that recognises bilinguality of Italian-Croatian. I hope that there will be a Primorje-goranska one day too so that you too may be able to appreciate the fact that the Italians live there automatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65370	This was also a contribution to the theory of correcting incorrect allegations. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Lino Cervar. Here you go, five minutes' debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65371	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. As a true Istrian Croat, I am convinced that the establishment of a university in Pula is the dream of every citizen of Istria who truly has Istria in his heart. Of course, the Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts the Government's proposal for a Law establishing a University in Pula. Ladies and gentlemen, by establishing a university in Pula, the Istrian economy will receive a new dimension, a new perspective, a new takeoff. Higher education institutions will move in line with the structure of Istria's economy in strong contact with key business operators. The establishment of a university in Pula will provide a certain assumption that we will have in the future the human potential that is qualified to manage the most important Istrian companies. Knowledge is a new key resource and investment in man, in young people is actually the most effective and effective investment. Because the new time, ladies and gentlemen, is looking for the speed of business and development, and in this process, the most important is human potential, knowledge that in itself is not enough if it is not in synergy with innovation and creativity. There's certainly no room for entropy today. Therefore, routine business at the level of minimum effort. What is looking forward to is the fact that, compared to reforming the system on the Bologna Declaration, there is also a proposal for a law on the establishment of a university in Pula to learn and raise domestic housing. For example, I am convinced and we are convinced that this is the last time that the Master's Tourism Development Plan in Istria writes to foreigners as the Spanish company “PER” from Barcelona and “Horvat consulting” from Zagreb. In the future development of tourism will be modelled by local brains, domicile intelligence, our Istrian children because they know best how to develop tourism in the coming period. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat once again that the Croatian Democratic Community gives full support to the proposal for a law establishing a university in Pula as well as to any other projects in Istria that guarantee further development of this region, unlike the last government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65372	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65373	So if we lived by chance in 26th or 36th, and not in 2006 then “Horvat consulting” from Zagreb would indeed be a stranger. But in that part, I think Mr. Cervar really messed up the dice a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65374	On behalf of the SDP Club, five minutes of debate, the respected representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65375	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Speaking on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club in this Proposal for a Law establishing a University in Pula last night in this High House by establishing which, as I pointed out, the SDP Representatives' Club gives full political support. I have made all the arguments for which the Club of Representatives considers relevant for the adoption of the Law establishing the University of Pula. The establishment of a university in Pula, where existing high school institutions in Pula will be integrated at the first moment, as well as a university library with existing teaching staff, is the first step in creating a center of excellence in Istria as the westernmost part of our homeland. The university will be a great incentive for quality economic development. The future University of Pula will not and must not be a copy of existing universities. Programmes are not allowed and will not overlap with existing programmes of the University of Rijeka, and will be addressed to the economy, students from Istria, but also to those from neighbouring regions and nearby foreign regions. In addition to studies in Croatian, the university will realise and develop studies in Italian as a language of official and equal use in the local and regional community, and of course it is worth taking care of what Mr Doric said in the debate on behalf of the club and the introduction of a third language, which is inevitable if we want to join Europe of knowledge. It is very important that the undivided support of this project demonstrates the existing high school institutions and libraries that will be integrated into the new university. The support is provided by the University of Rijeka, which is expected to help in any way, is provided by the local community, the church, the economy that is aware that the famous saying of the Canadian pedagogist Greno that the economy without science has a blind foundation and the Istrian economy rightly expects a lot of science. The start of the University of Pula is expected with October 1st. I am aware that, in a practical sense, there will be no immediate change in the academic community, but from autumn, concrete integration of studies and programmes will begin, and preparation for the introduction of new studies, guidelines and programmes. The creation of new programmes will be attended by the entire academic community, but also by a wider social environment, especially the economy. The development strategy which was indicated and developed in the draft on the establishment of the University of Pula, which, as the gentleman said, was working for the past 3 to 4 years, which should have been amended after the adoption of the new Law on Higher Education in July 2003, rests on the need for the university to develop according to the needs and opportunities of Istria and Croatia as a whole. The University of Pula will be open to co-operation not only with other Croatian universities but also with foreign ones, especially in the wider environment of this part of Europe. By opening the Pula University, which will benefit everyone, including students and teachers, I expect that the full standard of study in Pula will rise to a higher level. Building from a campus in old hospital facilities parallel to the construction of a new hospital will create more favourable conditions for student standard, which is inevitable for Pula. I remind you that even before, during the coalition government, the University of Zadar is open, and I hope that the University of Pula will not get into difficulties in which the Zadar University of Finance is located. Europe has certainly defined itself to create a single higher education space and to create a Europe of knowledge as a prerequisite for development in the new century. Knowledge and scientific methods enter all the capillaries of the post-industrial society. The university is becoming an extremely important genetic mechanism for such a society, the transducers of modern civilization to new generations. That university makes it organically embedded in its environment. The integration process in Europe of knowledge leads to standardisation and harmonisation of now very different higher education systems, with an emphasis on the entrepreneurship of students, professors and other employees, the adaptability of the programme and the preservation of the quality of higher education. Many countries in Europe plan or vigorously already implement regulation and decentralisation of higher education systems in response to new challenges and circumstances. These harmonisation processes, which will be implemented in Europe by 2010, also joined Croatia by signing the Bologna Declaration in Prague in 2001. The process of harmonising higher education will be possible to successfully implement the creation of flexible and adaptable higher schools, which are relatively smaller universities according to experiences and the world that need to be able to adapt quickly and contribute to the development of future learning societies. I am convinced that these processes in Croatia and Europe will make a good contribution to the draft and development of the University of Pula. Therefore, the SDP's club provides its undivided political support to the establishment of the University of Pula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65376	Thank you. HSP club, Tonci Tadic. Here you go. Five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65377	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The club of HSP representatives gives its undivided and great support to this project of the establishment of the University of Pula. We are doing this because in the same way we supported in the last meeting of the Assembly the establishment of the University of Zadar, i.e. the establishment of the University of Dubrovnik. So we want Croatia to have a network of universities and Pula is one of the important nodes in that network, because it is clear to everyone what the university city means. So, if nothing else, one strong intellectual potential in that area. But on the other hand, it means reducing the need for travel to Rijeka, Split or Zagreb to study. Not to mention the university centres outside the Republic of Croatia, especially in Italy. The thing is, then, is that the ministry and we all decide what this network is going to be, whether each of these universities really will be a university that will literally have all the directions they should have, or whether it will be specialized universities just for certain branches of science. So whether it will be directed by more humanistic, natural or technical sciences. But it is now a matter of further discussion, Mr. Minister, and of course today, we will have to think about that part too, in order not to put the idea into an absurd situation so that the idea is phenomenal, strong, large, we want one branched university, and that this same university today will be in the same problems and doubts as Zadar today, where each budget debate will combine whether it will really have enough money for the realization of all those projects announced and envisaged by the ministry with promises that it will certainly be, etc., etc. The founding of the university therefore also withdraws certain financial commitments. It sounds phenomenal when it's being brought in, but something less phenomenal when tomorrow's rector has to fight for every lip to realize projects that he has to realize. Because starting a university is one big step, one big venture not only for the Istrian County, but for the whole part of Croatia. We therefore support the establishment of this university with the desire to be one truly valuable node in that network of Croatian universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65378	Thank you. And the HSS club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65379	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club also joins support for the proposal of the University of Pula Law. The arguments given in the bill itself are acceptable to us. I'll just point out that this is certainly just the first step in realising the decision's goal. This is just the first step that will open up space to action and create everything that should be the result of the establishment of a university. This is the first step to create a framework for action. Of course, we also need to look at current experiences that have certain negative tendencies in terms of financial business, in terms of the activities of universities that are already active. Not just the one who, like the others, is always crying out for extra funds. But especially for the extra funds at this point in the entire community, the scientific research work is crying out. I think he's far the most endangered at this point and that practically our scientists at universities are actually just exhibitionism finding out how to get the resources for this scientific research work. I think that the support of this society regardless of what is one of the very positive decisions, which is a good decision and what is the establishment of a university like this that is not going to be in some way copies of the existing one, which will be less, which will be flexible, which will be almost specialized, which should not be covered by all those areas that normally cover one university. Regardless of all this in the public debate and in seeking the right to society of knowledge, we must also devote ourselves to the content of the reason why we set up these and so on. institutions. The main reason is that knowledge has its own application, the main reason is that scientific and research work is dominant, because without creating a scientific and scientific position, without research and new contribution, there is never a justification for the objective of the function that we create. We therefore support the establishment of the University of Pula. We support the intensities that come from it. We are not afraid of the University of Pula either as an institution or as an idea, but we are also supporting the way in which the financing and content idea of the knowledge society must be applied everywhere without being able to stay in shape, that it must not remain declarative, but that it must find its practical application and that the result must not be stopped by means of funding for scientific and research work is insufficient and that it must be collected almost as begging. It's not a pillar and it's vertical based on which one society of knowledge is built. Of course, that's what he needs money for. Of course, society would have more money to invest more in basic pillars that tomorrow need to create a better economy and social relations in the country. Finally, we support the proposal for a law establishing the University of Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65380	Thank you. Final review, Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dragan Primorac. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65381	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives and MPs, I will seek to briefly include all the elements of the debate so far and perhaps to touch some issues that were not clear to the end, otherwise I think in this very clear law and support the opinions of the parliamentary representatives that this project should actually be realised as soon as possible because in fact the doubts of the great around it are gone, and the academic year is beginning and in fact it should be brought to life as soon as possible. But a few simple explanations that I think are extremely important to understand the point. Last night I had a lecture together with former Estonian Prime Minister Martlar who talked about model development, they call it a muddy tiger and said one sentence that actually those who don't set high goals don't stand a chance of success. After that, I spoke to him and presented our goal, and the goal by 2010 was for the Croatian education system to be the most competitive in this part of Europe. Very clearly from preschool education to doctoral studies I explained the model and he told me that it was more ambitious than they had, and that ambition was not supported by ambition alone. This Croatian model we use is a model based on Croatian educational traditions, the principles of the European Union but for the first time that contains the best experiences of Israel, India, Japan, the United States. Why am I telling you this? So I'm talking about why, within this debate that we've been having, we've actually touched all those issues that are crucial, which I think Croatia is systematically solving. First of all, of course, it wasn't necessary to wait 50 years. Of course it was not necessary, but the fact that the moments in Croatia are always not simple or is conscious at that level that it can understand the laws of education as may be happening in recent years. The university and university network is responsible for the work. No minister, regardless of political power, can bring himself that it is not the National Council and other bodies, and these very days I would say that a kind of clear network of universities and universities in the Republic of Croatia has been brought in, especially with regard to a binary study that never existed in this way if a German had raised to the German level today. But the key issues in Croatia are other issues. The average study in the Republic of Croatia is 7.5 years... the power trade giving up is 69.5%. Schoolgirl, I want to repeat again that there won't be an increase in tuition in this academic year, it's a very clear message. And the answer is why, because regardless of the obligation they all had, we should calculate the cost of studying and only then get out of it the tuition and this project is launched, we will do it with our social partners and with the rectorial choir and it will be over in about six months, so we will be able to discuss the scholarship model next year but certainly not this year. On the other hand, it is extremely important to develop scholarship and lending models and it is in the student standard package. There is no basis for Croatian student not to be able to win, I spoke to the leading leaders of Croatian banks, that he cannot get a loan that assures him that he practically has no payment until the first day of employment. This is what all countries have, so Croatia should have. If we're talking about the university funding model, I've heard a few MPs talk about it. I want to take this opportunity and make it very clear. Time has passed in Croatia when only money could be asked for because it sounds pleasant. A period of responsibility for the higher education system has entered Croatia, and this is the policy Croatia has been implementing since 1.1.2006. What does that mean? It means it's nice to hear that someone's missing money, it's nice to hear, but it's nice to hear that the increase for small universities this year was over 47%, that's for example. Dubrovnik. But it's also nice to hear that according to the law that we supported in terms of autonomous university, and like everyone else, let's say American Stanford has that policy, the university gets money at the beginning of the year, and according to the law of 1.1.32006, it has all the money, it controls it. And what's the state interested in? The state is interested in the outcome of education. What did the university do with that money? How are quality personnel, what is competition in the knowledge market, and in fact, did we get what the need of the state is? It's a real modern university. And not at the 9th month or 10th because it's very convenient to ask through a rebalancing increase in funds. This is the policy that entered the Law that the entire academic community agreed with. And allow me this opportunity to say something else that the deans and rectors have pointed to, which is usually the strongest wind in the back for these changes, which is the university's own income. According to our data 700 million kuna are the own revenues of the university within the Republic of Croatia only last year which are not shown at all. 700 million kuna. The period has come that we must also lead this as income and be responsible for them and spend the state's resources, as well as our own incomes. On the other hand, I want to say another extremely important piece of information. Croatia has chosen the path of a unique scientific and higher education space, as you have all pointed out. It's an indivisible whole about scientific projects. Here, colleague Tadic, who is a scientist himself, I think he will be very pleased with my answer...... Yes, Dr. Scientiarum, scientist by definition. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But what's important is to say the next thing. A new project review process has entered the Croatian scientific community. For what we've all been fighting here, there's not one person who's against it, but that process is painful. But this process will not lead to 90% of the scientific projects that enter the review process being selected. In other words, about 4 thousand European Union scientists will participate in a review of Croatian projects together with Croatian experts, as Croatian scientists will review both Austrian and Slovenian projects. And this will ensure that some of the unnecessary funds that have entered the wrong places are channeled into centres of excellence in Croatia. What I'm telling you is a very clear system, a system that is measurable, a system that is comparable, a system that you can today, here's Professor Banac sitting and can compare it to Yale's system. It's two years from now with a very clear "outcome" or outcome. That's what I was interested in. I was not interested in the mutual self-thanks of one university in Croatia with another. Because he was always better than each other because there was no criterion for external evaluation or anything like that. Now we have very clear evaluation systems. I also want to point out one extremely important thing to me. If the University of Rijeka had not made certain steps and had not been granted one of the largest loans to the University of Rijeka last year, nearly half a billion kuna, then the University of Rijeka could not be developed in this way, nor could it support a new university in Pula. It's an extremely important message. Speaking of the University of Pula, it is now an example of the university as it should all be in the Republic of Croatia. An integrated university that shows very clearly its not only logistics in the student programmes needed in the Republic of Croatia but I would say, in flexibility, openness, in mobility. In the next 30 days after the entry of this Act of Obligations which I have as Minister is the appointment of a temporary Rector of the University who should bring in 5 very important things that are important for the launch, which is the preparation for the start of university work, which will not be difficult because there are activities, student programs that are now going. On the other hand, obtain an adjective to the Ministry of Science and Education to start carrying out activities, to adopt a provisional statute. Also prepare application for registration in the court register and what is most important, take action to establish a university senate, a key body of the University of Pula. If today we say that the University of Pula does not start from zero, as many universities have started already today with 2 thousand 814 students, with a solid teacher base, then besides these good things, the University of Pula will come very quickly to the stage of its own responsibility. And that's what I want to point out. Since this academic year, the University of Pula has entered the category of evaluation, comparability and those criteria that we call excellence. Because already in 2007, meaning the first academic year, we will work together with the Agency, evaluating achievements within the first year of the University of Pula. And I want to finally highlight one of my most important things, which is, two days ago, the president of the Croatian government received 18 returnees from abroad. Through a very clear project of return and networking of Croatian minds. That model so far has a public record of India, Israel and no one else. There is a network of every Croatian scientist abroad. There is its capacity, sources of funding, and most importantly, this scientist no longer needs to come and live in Croatia as he has been for years, I can freely call it, demagogy. Because who's the one who dares to force a university professor from Stanford, Harvard to come to Croatia at any cost. It's not a trend in the world anywhere. He can help Croatia perfectly as head of the clinic or dean, or similar at Harvard. But there are a number of middle-generation people coming back to Croatia. 18 of them have done it now, and 10 of them are on the return list. I, too, would warn my colleagues from Istria that it is of great interest to return these people and they want to find their role in Croatian society. In a conversation with a few of them, they are willing to come and live in Pula and return to the University of Pula. And because of academic advances that are not always easy at major universities but also because of a whole new concept because they can create new programs that can't go to major universities. And there would be my special appeal for the lists of returnees to be considered very much in the new University of Pula, in the human resources structure, because Croatia does not have enough people to get a job, and here I remind you that every year we approve up to 400 jobs at Croatian universities. Mr. President, in the end, I think it's very important to say that the Ministry will do everything and we have ready our team practically on the ground to go, and you know Mr. Radin in order for this whole process to really end and begin. Because there's no reason that the University of Pula doesn't start, I'd say it's a matter of no days but a matter of moments with full work. Of course, there are parliamentary procedures, there are two readings, and I would appeal to everyone that this process that is so well accepted and I am proud of all of us, obviously with consensus we accepted, to finish it and go to the opening. And I would say that this is one of the reasons that Croatia really has a lot, a lot of reasons to be proud because it creates a final network of Croatian universities, so long waiting. And about a few months from now, a network of universities in the Republic of Croatia will be very clearly defined and after that we should start working on quality, not numerical establishment, of what has led Romania to the position it is in. That there are more than 90 universities that are now shutting down because half of them are below any quality and comparability criteria with any European Union country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65382	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65383	Just one little rectification of the quote. I think the Minister... display error. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you mentioned a figure of 700 million kuna of your own university income. That must be true of the so-called. The old universities that have already developed their research activities have teams that can provide something. It's a big question of how much of that they're involved in. new small universities such as Zadar or Dubrovnik, or how much will the University of Pula be able to participate? In fact, I'm asking you to point out that when you talk about university incomes, it's about big, old universities, not these universities, and be broad-handed when it comes to these new ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-17-0.u65384	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law establishing a University in Pula, first reading. I am voting on the next conclusion of the proposal for a Law establishing a University in Pula. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Please vote. The result? Unanimity. With 94 votes for the proposed conclusion. And where there's this one voice that's been missing all the time, and no one's gone outside, someone's not getting involved. Okay.
