ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79339	Mr. President, I just wanted to notice that Croatia is facing a serious humanitarian problem. It's about credibility. A test of humanity is being passed today. Here, we see that Gordana Gettos Magdic has started a hunger strike to see her daughter and Mirko Sivić, a prisoner in the case of tape, has been on hunger strike for nine days. The bishops are silent, the academics are silent, the Parliament is silent.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79340	Thank you very much. This isn't a topic, and we can't discuss it. Please sit down. Secretary of State, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79341	No, sir, I'm looking outside the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79342	Thank you very much. Please sit down. There's nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79343	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79344	Please sit down. Here you go, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The purpose of this law is to facilitate the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications in the Republic of Croatia for two purposes. The first objective is a possible continuation of education. This goal is achieved through something called academic recognition, or another objective of employment, professional recognition in the Republic of Croatia. The reasons for the appearance of this law lie in the assessment according to which the existing text of the law is not these two objectives are not clearly divided and should be, and in addition a few more details are additional reasons why we are going to amend and supplement this law. I remind you that the Lisbon Convention is intended to separate therefore professional recognition from academic recognition and that is precisely what is happening in this law. Professional recognition, I remind you, is carried out by a special expert body of the Council for the Evaluation of Arguments and on the basis of the instructions... The office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The academic recognition is carried out by a competent higher education institution, not by abstracto, but precisely by a specific study programme for which the institution concerned is responsible. In addition, this bill removes discrimination against foreign nationals who, under the existing law, have been obliged to prove the legal interest for which they enter into this procedure. In addition, let me say that we are asking for an emergency procedure because there are a whole series of actions ahead of us that we are following so that we are not simply late to do this essentially necessary up-to-date jobs related to the recognition of these qualifications. Furthermore, the adoption of this law is also foreseen in the agenda relating to commitments towards European integration. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79347	If I may have more, I'm sorry. We got along the way and I say the amendment in advance is acceptable to us, so that I don't take away your valuable time, it's a nomotechnical suggestion that seems acceptable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79348	Thank you. Education, science, culture committees? President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79349	Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Education, Science and Culture at the 29th session discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications with the final proposal for the Law of P.Z. 597. The Committee considered the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The participants of the debate pointed out that it is really necessary to bring the existing law in line with the principles and relevant provisions of the '97 Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications in Europe. years of so-called The Lisbon Convention so much as necessary as the Secretary of State said to divide, separate the proceedings so-called the professional and academic recognition of which, in the first instance, the recognition of diplomas already acquired, i.e. the completed study and the second is exclusively about the identification or recognition in each individual case and only for the case of the absorbed programmes. held colleges for the purpose of an uninterrupted continuation of studies at another of our higher education institutions. Participants of the debate also accepted the proposed solution by which foreigners and stateless persons would be equated with Croatian citizens. On the occasion of submission of the application, they should not demonstrate the legal interest in resolving the requirements for the recognition of higher education qualifications. they should not prove why they need a certain degree or nostration of that diploma. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously concluded. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications with the final proposal of the Law and in the form proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79350	Thank you. The Committee for Immigrants, president, honorary representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! At the 28th session held on 7 December this year, the Committee for Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this Bill as an interested working body, especially because of the recognition of foreign educational qualifications of returnees and descendants of emigrants. The resolution of their demands based on the provisions in force so far has been difficult and has taken a very long time. The applicant representative, the proposing representatives presented this legislative proposal and explained the need for further harmonisation with the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications in Europe, known as the Lisbon Convention and the guidelines of the European Union. The purpose of the adoption of this Act is to advertise the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications, the separation of professional and academic recognition procedures. This separation ensures greater academic mobility and greater mobility of the professional workforce. Academic recognition implies recognition of foreign higher education qualifications for the purpose of continuing education in the Republic of Croatia. The professional recognition shall aim to confirm the value of a qualification in order to determine whether the knowledge and professional skills of the holder of the qualification are appropriate for dealing with a particular type of work. In the debate, the Committee members asked the applicant to respond to the questions of recognition of academic qualifications from Croatian students studying abroad and returning to study in Croatia and to recognise qualifications for performing regular, professional activities. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously concluded: it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass a law on the recognition of foreign educational qualifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79352	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of the representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79353	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, at first glance, when we got this bill with the final proposal we were basically thinking about whether we should get involved in the debate at all because there's usually nothing to say. However, it is good to say at the beginning of this presentation that the HSS Club will certainly support this Amendments and Supplements Act and we would like to say some of our own, some of our thoughts regarding this proposal. The first dilemma we had was whether it was just a formality or a certain improvement. I would say that on the one hand it would seem to us at first sight that it is a formal improvement, however, it seems to me that it is an improvement compared to the previous one, compared to the original law. The improvement is certainly this and it should be welcomed to separate both academic and professional recognition. I think it's also useful for the speed of work and also for the very qualifications that are recognised. What we feel when we talk about professional recognition. It is also here when I mention both professional and academic recognition in article 4, then it is fact-finding that let me simplify the professional recognition of the Education Council, for the evaluation of the "IVK" and the academic certainly institution or higher education where a person wants to continue higher education. Of course, when it comes to professional recognition, then you can also talk about some sort of higher education preparation or you can talk about a medium professional preparation that needs to be evaluated in this way. It seems to me that even with this professional recognition, it may still be necessary, if it is a high school qualification, to include an institution even though it is mentioned here that there will be representatives of higher schools, but good. What seems to us, and that is much more important to me, is basically the reverse process. We are here today saying that we will recognise diplomas or completed a certain year of studies or testimonies of foreign educational qualifications, so it is assumed that they are in the rule of people with foreign citizenship. However, we are interested in whether this process or process, the principle of the reciprocity of our students or our finished people outside is treated equally. Based on my experiences and knowledge of how many, almost 16-year-old college professors, I hear there are a lot of problems. That it's not exactly equal, the same principle of reciprocity represented. I know, I talked to Mr. Secretary of State a little while ago that, in principle, these demands and there aren't so many a year in total, which means there isn't much to be done. However, the question arises how many of our students or graduate students or graduate high school students go outside and how does it go with the recognition of these qualifications? I'm saying according to my information, it's not exactly the same treatment. Another thing that bothers us a little here is the problem in Article 6 which has not significantly changed where it is said that the procedure for the evaluation of foreign higher education qualifications takes into account only the degree of knowledge achieved, skills and competence acquired by qualifications without comparison of curricula. I understand the explanation of the secretary of state that they are not so comparable school systems, I don't know, Germany and France, Slovenia at the end and with our education system, gave 'high school or high school anyway, but I'm not sure that's so good for us. So we must already accept in advance that the knowledge, skills and competences of students or high school students from Germany are bigger or smaller than ours, whether they are or are not comparable teaching programs. So it seems to me that there may be a little more going on here, I'm not going to say a very subjective relationship, but I'd rather this wasn't written so much without comparing the curricula. I understand that because of the overall process it's simpler, I understand what this is about. That's P.Z.E. And I know it all well, but I'm just saying that I'm, practice shows something else, right? Here, so along with this one factual remark that I made in that, in the original process or principle of reciprocity. We don't have that information, so we'd like to ask for something to say about it too. It has already been said, and I don't know from which immigration committee what it's like with our students finishing their studies outside, so we're asking that the Proposer declare himself. So the HSS Representatives Club will support this. There's no doubt about it. I think it's useful, but I'm saying we'd be kind of happier if this principle of reciprocity was also presented in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79354	Thank you. HNS club. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79355	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a law that is clearly set out with good intent to clarify certain things, em harmonized with European intensities and the Lisbon Declaration. Therefore, in the process of recognising foreign qualifications, it shall be separated professionally from the academic part. The professional part is the one that is recognised for employment. So to obtain a direct title for foreign diploma, a title here with which a man can be employed. Of course, not only high school, but high school, but academically, it's about continuing studies. I guess it doesn't say that in there, but I suppose that this academic part of the study is also about continuing from one level to another level of study from the level of first graders to the level of masters that doesn't write, but it doesn't actually have to write. It's good in the law that the authorities return to the colleges, the authorities to recognise external qualifications where they belong. Namely, who better to assess whether some, some piece of study, some part of the study, some level of study in the world is appropriate to what's going on here, if not colleges that do it and that's good. It doesn't seem so good to me. I think it's a little bit missed that this professional part of the recognition of qualifications, so that recognition of qualifications for performing a job is moving away, that is, remains out of college and belongs to some state body, or some commission, some body of the ministry that needs to assess whether these skills are more adequate under some other external programme to our knowledge and skills that our students get at the university to do a certain job. It seems illogical to me that some commission, some commission with the ministry, no matter who participates in it, will be able to assess better whether representatives of the university can assess that someone who has completed a study for a mining engineer in Germany is really qualified for the job and that they will be able to assess it better than the Faculty of Mining in Zagreb. It doesn't make sense to me. I think that this professional part of the recognition of external qualifications should also belong where these qualifications are shared with the most competent institutions in the state, which are our universities, or universities. Another dilemma that seems to me not solved, I don't really know where the recognition of external qualifications is in the process of acquiring teaching and scientific teaching at our higher education institutions. In fact, people out there acquire certain academic titles – Master of Science, a doctor of science in a particular area that may not be here in that form. They come here, they want to become high school teachers, they enter the election process. Who is the competent institution to decide whether their qualification is adequate for the election process. According to the letter of this law, this should be the state body, therefore which decides on professional or professional qualifications. I don't think that's good, and I think that part should be done in college, too. The position of the Croatian People's Party in the global and on the recognition of these external qualifications is that we must, of course, engage in the final declarations that we have accepted and signed and in the views of Europe that we have accepted and signed should be relatively cautious. Because it's not exactly the kind of situation with us that I can cross-reference and rewrite the side of the experience but I can say two, three years I've been getting almost regular spam on my e-mail where foreign diplomas from American universities are offered. It's a legitimate job. They're selling it legally. You're going to be a bachelor, a master, a doctor. You can buy anything alive without a problem, a week's procedure. Pay $500 a master of science you are. Pay a thousand dollars, doctor. You're science. There's no problem getting legal paper stamping that university. It's all right. Now, if such a diploma is to be recognised by a body that is not directly involved in higher education, then which is not a college, I'm afraid anything can happen. Why do Americans sell these diplomas, and we have it against the law? Well, the best illustration of the reason is, the ads in the paper. See if the ads publish foreign companies as they say in them. He writes college education and writes knowledge that a man should have. If this is published by our state bodies, and the state is the biggest employer in our country, then it's written by a high-level expert cookout, finished this and this college. A diploma like this and a diploma like that. No one's asking you what you know. No one's asking you what you know, but they're asking you which paper you have. That's why we've got the paper curently, and that's why the papers are sold well, and that's why you can go to Doboj to buy a diploma and come back from Doboj and nostrate and strengthen that diploma through some body. The same is why in our schools and in our colleges students copy whenever they can. I was visiting a larger number of colleges on the East Coast of the United States. I went to the exams just to see what it looked like. No one's copying. So I asked the students why they don't copy? There are two reasons. The first reason is that students rank themselves according to success and employers hire them by that rank and of course I will not give my knowledge to a neighbor who did not learn to beat me to a ladder and get a job, a better job before me. That doesn't make sense. There's another reason, a student tells me, and why should I write it because I don't know? I'll come to work, I won't know. My boss doesn't ask me what kind of paper I have. My boss asks me if I know. So there's the difference between our situation and the West. Well, if that's the difference, then we shouldn't apply it directly. That's why I think it would be better if this professional section of qualifications were verified in colleges. In those who qualify in our system, they give our system at least of course as far as higher education is concerned. A little bit by the articles. Article 4 refers to the recognition of the period of study. I assume that these are the academic years, the first, the second, the third recognized how many years a man has heard outside, the academic recognition is talked about, so the follow-up of the study. Recognising the period of study means recognising time. I think it's kind of pointless in the Bologna Declaration system. No time, there are ECTS points. So you admit two years with how many points? You're exactly 120? Maybe it's not 120, maybe it's 115, maybe it's 140, and it's similar. In that recognition, I think that the period of study should go out and ECTS points should go in as a criterion of evaluation of the amount of study, the amount of effort made, the results achieved and so on. The same Article 4 discusses the process of academic recognition. I think it would be necessary to introduce a provision within which the procedure at certain high schools would be uniformed. The procedure is not even uniform within the Zagreb University. Every college has done it its own way. Of course, this should be evened at country level. Also, if professional and professional recognition is already being carried out at the Council of the Ministry which decides on these matters, I think it would be good for the law to clearly and decidedly write who is doing this council. How many representatives of the academic community, how many representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, how many representatives of whom, but to make it clear in the law and not to be subject to one of those 450 sublegal acts that appear annually and which are given by the Government, because that is the key thing. The key to implementing this law is someone doing it. And if it's going to be in the hands of the government, and not in the hands of the law, then there's not much point in us deciding here. Article 6 states that recognition of qualifications for work, so professional recognition does not compare curricula, I suppose this is about colleges, because the Law on Science and Higher Education knows the study programmes, which is good of course. Different programmes in different countries can result in very similar professional qualifications, very similar skills and skills. The question, however, is what is then compared and who is again competent to compare what compares. Who is competent to compare skills and knowledge, i.e. who is more competent than the teacher who teaches the skills and knowledge and evaluates the skills and knowledge of our student. I don't know why that competence would have any body outside of higher school institutions, not a higher school institution that gives that degree. So if someone here gives a diploma to a mining engineer, I guess he knows best what it is that a mining engineer must have in Croatia in order to function in the Croatian economy. And one more thing. When it comes to this state body that recognises professional qualifications, the institute of administrative silence is introduced, which is good. Therefore, if that body does not respond within 60 days, it is deemed to have responded positively. In this way, the whole process is rushed, avoiding being put in a drawer, and a link must be sought to get it out of the drawer and tom like that. There's no such provision in academic recognition for high school institutions. I think you should show up there, too. The colleges, we all know that, especially us who are at the university are extremely slow, and this procedure in colleges is partly justified until one council, another council, is met, while a commission is formed and so on. But it also lasts because of the neglect of inertness and such traits that are also present in our higher education institutions. I think that the Institute of Administrative Silence and this second part of the recognition regarding academic recognition should be introduced and that in this way those students who come from outside, whether our diaspora, whether the foreigners who intend to continue the study here you actually put in an equal position not to drag them out one, two academic years so that they could possibly get involved in the study. All in all, the Croatian People's Party supports this, this endeavor to improve the legal text and improve the handling of these situations. But we would really ask that these remarks be considered and that they be incorporated into both the law and the implementing regulations that will be made under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79356	Thank you. IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79357	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. Since the purpose of the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications is to facilitate the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of continuing education, i.e. academic recognition or employment, i.e. professional recognition in the Republic of Croatia, the IDS Club will surely support this proposal. Indeed, the existing law does not clearly define the concept and purpose of recognising foreign educational qualifications, and professional and academic recognition is fully equated, making the existing normative framework for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications contrary to European standards and contrary to the principles of the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications in Europe, etc. The Lisbon Convention, confirmed by the Republic of Croatia by the Law confirming the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications in Europe. The Lisbon qualification has facilitated mobility by facilitating academic recognition, and international guidelines in introducing it highlight the importance of applying the international and national legal framework in a flexible way in order to make recognition possible, not an obstacle. On the other hand, although similar recognition cases are intended to be considered inexplicably similar ways across Europe, there is awareness that it is essential to have some flexibility in making recognition decisions and that decisions will vary to some extent depending on national education systems. We are witnessing that some of our young people are studying outside of Croatia, Italy, i.e. in Trieste, in Padua, in Bologna, in Florence, in Milan, in neighbouring countries, in Slovenia, in Austria, in Great Britain, in the United States, so we must be aware that certain flexibility must exist. Professional recognition as well as academic recognition aims to confirm the value of a qualification, and while the main objective of the process in academic recognition is to determine the status of qualification, considering whether the holder of the qualification is able to continue the study in the chosen direction and at the chosen level, the aim of the professional recognition is to determine whether the knowledge and expertise of the holder of qualifications is appropriate for the performance of a particular type of work. And here I will agree with those who say that the evaluation may not always have measured knowledge, but knowledge is what a man carries inside him and certainly no one can take from him. According to these different recognition purposes, the separation of procedures for academic and professional recognition, i.e. the necessity to refer to the procedures, implies the competence of the relevant institutions. According to the above, and also in the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for Chapter 3, it has been pointed out that the separation of professional and academic recognition will take place in the first stage, and that this will be done in this year. So, the IDS club supports and will support these changes and additions and I believe we are on track for what our students, or our academically educated people expect from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79358	Thank you. HDZ Club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79359	Dear Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications which, in its amendments, represents a new positive step in me, I would say to the ever-present integration of Europe's education systems and beyond. The integration of education systems is inevitable, it is caused by easier communication, it is based on the establishment of development not only of education but also of science at an international level which is again useful and most useful for developing countries and therefore all of what is proposed here is of particular importance for Croatia. Because ultimately integration of education, and for higher education... and the scientific system into international forums, is actually a major step and an advantage in the development of our economy, one of the fundamentals of economic development. And this is a problem that needs to be complemented so gradually, because unlike informing a society that can be implemented quickly and we spend very quickly in some segments and modelly, the education system is much more inert and in order to raise the number of highly qualified professionals with 7% as much as it is now to a higher quality and level in line with world norms, it is necessary to bring such changes and additions to the laws. The recognition of foreign educational qualifications in our country is based on the 2003 Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. The purpose of this law is to facilitate the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications in two areas, as has already been said here several times. For the purpose of continuing education, it is then academic recognition and for the purpose of employment, then professional recognition. The current law does not separate this issue but is common, united, and this is contrary to world trends, and in the second row with the Lebanon Convention, which was adopted in 1997,... I'm sorry, the 1997 Lisbon Convention, which Croatia signed and accepted in 2002. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Under the Lisbon Convention, higher education qualifications are recognised in the countries of Europe, but there is another obligation international, which is a recommendation for consultants of the CARDS programme, which has been accepted by the European Commission, in which academic and professional recognition of qualifications must also be separated, and these amendments have been very successful. Now here, of course, with that last part, there are a whole series of questionable issues and topics that my predecessors have set up and I think a few words should be said about them. First of all, according to the Lisbon Convention, no status rights are accepted and not taken over, which means academic titles, academic degrees, etc. I think it's good and I don't think in this law it should have been regulated because it's already regulated by special laws. In other words, I as a Croatian university professor can be a guest professor in all other countries, but I cannot be a university professor. I must pass the full qualification, i.e. complete verification as must any other professor who comes to Croatia. So I think it's a good thing that it's left to the scientific, higher education and teaching institutions that carry out such actions and that it's something that needs to be kept at national level and it's realized here. There are a few other good things in these amendments and additions to the law. Let's say, among other things, that this text of the law sets out exactly who, which institution carries out such a procedure for which level. We then see in Article 4 that Article 9 of the former law has been amended and the competence for professional recognitions at the level of the Agency for Science and Higher Education is determined which again includes the profession and educational institutions and scientific institutions, etc. So I think that this agency has chosen well and which integrates all these requirements into the ministry, and for the process of recognising academic qualifications, these are higher education institutions. So, strictly targeted for an individual higher education institution that will, to that end, be founded according to these amendments, supplement their offices. And that's also to say hello. I may only be asking a question in Article 2, a definition of professional recognition, so I would ask Mr. Secretary of State to explain it a little bit in his final review. Professional recognition is defined as recognition of the same legal validity of the foreign and higher education qualifications with the appropriate domestic qualifications, which enables employment but says below, and access to further education. And since academic recognition is the basis for further education, then it seems to me that there is a certain coincidence in definition that maybe either I didn't understand or has some purpose. So my question is why is this academic included in the definition of professional. Continuing academic education, I don't get it. The next thing that is very well solved here, if we want to integrate our education system and we want to join the advanced systems of Europe, it is that the amended Article 3 which in the old law narrowed down the right to accept the qualifications acquired abroad. And he said that persons without citizenship as well as foreign citizens have the right to recognise foreign educational qualifications if they make a likely legal interest in recognising it. This is a discriminatory procedure which has been completely removed in these amendments and amendments to the Law. Only the children of foreign diplomats, refugees and exiles were excluded before, and now they are equally right for all. In a system like this that was established in these changes and additions, therefore, there are a whole series of advantages that I was talking about, but we always have to ask the question of what can be negatively derived from this. Surely there are certain concerns, and that is why the ministry is there to think of them and to care for them. First of all, Article 6 which states that recognition is done without comparison of the programme. I absolutely support this view because if programmes were compared then they would not be able to determine compliance in a huge number of education systems of a large number of countries. However, there is one danger. And what about those education systems that have yet to comply with European trends. This is a transitional period to full harmonisation that hides certain dangers. Someone mentioned the Doboy degree. There are such diplomas on many sides, and I believe that the ministry in its agency, as well as universities, will take care of it without comparing education programmes, still taking care of the credibility of the document on which it is decided. I would mention only one of these options and these are specializations, for example in medicine, but also in other professions where there is official specialization. The recognition of specialization without entry into the comparison of educational programs of the specialist training is practically impossible because the specialization programs are completely out of line, it is a process that has just begun and will be completed in perhaps 5 or 10 years, and during that transitional period I believe that the relevant bodies will take into account both such exceptions and in such exceptions still look at the curricula that are so different. What's good is that everything we're not happy with, if we have to admit something to someone, we can be comforted right away. And they'll have to confess to us. Therefore, for a country that is only at the beginning of its educational reform, it is certainly more useful than possible damage and therefore I think that this law should be fully supported and also supported by its urgent procedure because of all the actions that the ministry should do. This law opens up competition and for our education systems which is good, opens up the possibility of training our personnel and their return to our economic systems, which is also good. But also, I repeat once again in the conclusion of my presentation, imposes caution against abuse that the ministry must provide in its mechanisms. So once again, the HDZ club supports changes and additions and supports the urgent process of passing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79360	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79361	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP Club must first of all warn and express its objection to the urgency of the procedure, regardless of the P.Z.E. The law because there was enough time in this law and according to the plan of harmonisation to respond in time and to carry out the adoption of this law in two readings. Because of the fact that unfortunately there will remain more problems that are not covered and will not be well defined by this law. Although, I say, we support the law's intensification regarding the recognition of foreign educational qualifications. So these three important problems that we point to first of all relate to the problems of Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens who have finished, so they have gotten calls from us in Croatia regarding recognition abroad and educational qualifications. And here I think we should go according to the principle of reciprocity as is the custom in international law and relations. So let us also enable our Croatian citizens to have the knowledge, that is, the educational qualifications they have acquired at our universities or our secondary schools in an appropriate way to be recognised in countries where they already are. And that's where we ask the government to take appropriate steps. We need to be aware that there will be a lot of problems in this process. There's going to be a lot of problems because they exist abroad, so colleges that give a degree and a calling, and we don't have such colleges. Take, for example, Harvard, from other foreign universities where it will come into a situation that only a degree and area can be recognised. A degree and an area because in Croatia we do not have such a situation. Another problem that can also occur, let's say, is that our individual colleges can open up abroad so-called. "online" study and a lot of simplified procedure and procedure. And now, let's say, in relation to Croatia, and now those same people who may even be our state, let's say, open it in Vienna, they will then come forward with such a request even though there is a word as Mr Vuljanic said. So, we're talking about all of that, simulations of what kind of problems can be encountered by hearing the secretary of state finally what it is. And yet, we also think that this big problem is the so-called problem. acquisition, under quotes, diplomats in Republika Srpska, so-called Or Dobojski and Banja Luka case. We must be aware that in Croatian political and public life there were no number of people who even during the Homeland War acquired those titles in Republika Srpska. Now it's a question in these situations, not to mention the part about buying a diploma in particular, how and the problem to jump? It's also a pretty big problem is our bodies will normally not be able to determine exactly. A man will come, he will normally apply as the law suggests, he has a degree, and let's just say the diploma was bought. How in these situations and why I think maybe it's smarter in some areas to go to those system of structuring diplomas, make one combination because this way by tape can happen the variant we know, it's careful you have and enough, let's say that joke you've been telling for years, say Mujo sells diplomas and now comes to him and says, "What do you have?", says, "I have all my diplomas.", says: "Do you have any medical school?", says, "I do."What's it cost?, "five thousand euros.", says this: "But I don't have 5,000 euros, I have four."and then I have to ask you a little... Therefore, this is the same problem of buying diplomas and these situations that I was talking about to hear the final secretary of state how and in what way to prevent those negativitys that they are, which would allow them to be recognised by these educational qualifications that they have acquired under quotes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79362	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79363	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Enough has been said about this subject, allow me just a few words on behalf of the SDP, perhaps more encouraged by this debate than the idea of saying something before this debate began. Namely, it seems important to say that the new weather is also looking for some new solutions and that more of those rigid, closed-minded ones that we had before, which were worth perhaps in the last century are now behind us and that in some way all these discussions that were, especially these two last ones on behalf of the club, I think we should at least say here in the Croatian Parliament that we should still have a little more confidence in our own institutions that we have established. In doing so, I am thinking of the agency and of our national enicaric office and the entire network of electronic offices operating throughout Europe. In 2002, we ratified the Lisbon Convention, it came somewhere after the signing of the Bologna Declaration and what I think is important to say is that by signing the Bologna Declaration and then by adopting all these other instruments which include the Lisbon Convention, although it was before the Bologna Declaration itself, Croatia has joined the creation or investment in a common European educational space that had two, two fundamental values somewhere, which is mobility, i.e. visibility and readability of the diploma and in this sense is made one whole set of instruments, one of them is the ECTS points mentioned by fellow Vuljanić and I completely agree with their observation in relation to this Law that it might need to talk more about the effort and time invested in the study than just recognising years since it really in the Bologna system, the academic year is losing its significance, in fact nothing. What I want to point out on behalf of the SDP club is that as the practice concerns the recognition of foreign educational qualifications and diplomas we have relatively good regulations, one part is really being corrected by this Bill proposal and in this sense is good, but today, too, very often for me personally, as representatives of us in the SDP, I believe that all others also appear to be facing a number of problems in the recognition of their diplomas, or their qualifications. The last case when I heard from a young colleague who ended up seems to me at Cambridge a modern history which in some way did not want him to admit at all because such a study in Croatia does not exist and it seems important to me to separate in practice two things apart from what is now separated in this Law, which is to recognize academic degrees, and then to leave them in some way in particular, or to no longer look at them as rigidly as we have looked at them so far. And in that sense, I think that we should, because we haven't done that yet to amend the Law on Scientific and Academic Names since we're about to come out very quickly the first generation of Bolognans and in some way we haven't settled their callings, they'll be the same to their diplomats in one year, a year and a half already on the labour market, and we haven't settled that in legislation at all because we have the same case in these foreign diplomas, since they already have these systems before. Here and just at the end of this very short discussion on behalf of the club, we will support this Law because every law that contributes to the inclusion of Croatia in this European space is, of course, acceptable, but I would like to warn that there is no room for claustrophobia here in some way, there should be legitimate concerns about some diplomas, but we should trust our own institutions and this flexible system that you also understand in Europe as flexiblely as in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79364	Thank you. State Secretary Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, without any courtosy, truly sincere thanks for extremely constructive suggestions, criticism and suggestions to this text. In fact, there is awareness among us, there is awareness among the promoters that in a complex transition situation we are moving from an old system that we want to leave by entering a new and living in a real world that burdens this process and I repeat once again we have heard very well, I would say very professionally let you also show criticism and suggestions. But allow a few reviews that I assume will be useful in further discussion. First of all, let us bear in mind that we have developed an electronic service as part of the European Eunik network. Today at the end of 2006, I can say this responsibly, and I couldn't say it a year, two days ago, today, I can say it, it's a team of competent people working on modern communication technology associated with really and personally and institutionally with all of their colleagues, colleagues and colleagues in the European network, and what might be even more important is that people who do this work alone in that office don't do it without close consultation with people from the academic community who are actually not only mentors but also daily their daily, so to say the managers of their work. In one place, therefore, an academic and professional function has been joined in the eniknaric service that can be discussed twice as competently. Croatia is a small country and we were not having a hard time collecting and recognising, gathering in one place all the people we managed to detect as the most competent of this matter. I'd like to assure you simply that we have reason to be satisfied that this service, this job, is doing well. As for the fear of dishonest and illegal actions in connection with this, they are justified. And not only are they justified but they are proven to be justified and that is certainly why we have increased our attention to this matter. From certain parts and Europe, but I must say not only from our neighborhood, but from the world, there are demands and suggestions that need to be further checked, which is exactly what is being done. There are ways, so there are methods, there are experiences about this thing, and I think we're also successful at showing the fact that we haven't had a major failure in that thing so far. The evaluation board, it says in the law, is composed of people, competent people with higher education or relevant professional associations, chambers. So, again, people who, by logic, things are the most in the business. It was a legitimate question of the mutuality and position of our students in the world. Of course, the fundamental principle that we're handling is just being mutual. We can insist on it when it comes to countries that are signatories to the Lisbon Convention, which is what we do. But I must also be pleased to say that some other countries that are not signatories are also trying to accept the standards contained in this Convention and therefore wanting to become part of that society that has been gathered around this Convention are seeking to comply with its provisions. What is the experience of our students in the world? Different. Like where. It depends on the country we're talking about, but it also depends on the diploma with which our man from Croatia goes to the country. Two basic categories of diploma. Those obtained from institutions, which are in some way externally evaluated. They're the best ones that are accredited. Unfortunately, there are few of them. We hope there will be more tomorrow and there are no big doubts about whether they will be recognized or not. It will. But those who are also questionable in the relationship between our institutions themselves, of course, that the difficulties are greater. I'd like to tell you that it's also one process in which we try to make a choice, and even in these bilateral communications, again through one of the enicar offices, which is a better position for our people. I think it is a very reasonable suggestion given by Mr Kovacevic, to realize that this is about recognition above all degrees, not titles, not the title of Professor Hebrang, which is certainly not just a problem that we are solving the lack of studies that we do not have, but a principle that solves the problem as a whole. By the way, I would like to point out that these days you will have a proposal for a law on academic and professional names in which we will be able to resolve some of these issues in more detail. Mr. Vuljanić, by the way, to answer. Indeed, it does not seem a good suggestion to us that even though a competent enicnar service should carry out an election process in scientific or scientific teaching or only teaching. This is about foreign citizens having to go into our system, go through a whole procedure so much more than it is now. Of course we exempt guest lecturers who come as they come and remain relatively limited time. Period or points. Study or academic period or points? And we had a dilemma about whether to put on points, but as we know, we are only in the second year of academic implementation of the Bologna Process. Much more study programmes, much more is going on in the old system, and the proposal is likely to operate only with points in relatively short time to be fully justified. Now it seems to us that the period, even if it's not quite an adequate term, is more overcovering the problems than it would be covered by an ECTS system that only applies to the Bologna Process. The request and I see that it is supported not to enter the study programmes through academic recognition, it is absolutely our position not to enter it absolutely clear and unequivocal. We can't imagine what the law or obligation of the university council would lead to to judge whether a diploma is good or not. We think that the experience that we had would have had in Croatia itself would have been to have calculations among individual universities on whose study programme is more quality, which would have been, which would have opened the door almost invited universities to such competence. Administrative silence. It exists in general terms. It concerns both professional and academic recognition. By the way, Professor Hebrang's answer. Professional recognition is merely a recognition for the purpose of recognition, not a continuation of education. And academic only for the purpose of continuing education. Here, if I helped some further debate on these principle notes, I'd be happy to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79366	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79367	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to correct these allegations about ECTS points and the duration of the study. The fact is, we have studies that still work as they do, but they're coming to an end. The third year of Bologna entering, which goes through ECTS systems. Bologne students who eventually come from the outside are all Bologna students, no more by the old system. And I think at least the text of the law should put an alternative to the duration and ECTS points. Then you'd cover both cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79368	We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79369	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State. When it's too much praise, then being a devil's lawyer is the worst, but I have some anxiety as an old university professor. All year ago, this teaching work makes a man both conservative and cautious. First of all, the first problem is related to the name itself or to the syntax of educational qualifications because the concept of qualifications points to something that one can and can do, to the recognition of educational levels or educational degrees would be less of a problem for me personally but also a general understanding of the intensity of this law. That's the first thing. The second thing, after this law, there will be nothing left in the labour market or in the academic community like it used to be. So far, the system of nostrification we knew from the old communist order he was led to absurdity that man could have ended up with Sorbonne or Heidelberg or Princeton, and then he would have come here and given him a few extra exams. Usually these were the basics of Marxism, theory and practice of self-government socialism, general folk defense, national history and little language. It was you and it really looked when it was seen from the Western perspectives quite funny. Now we're introducing a single automation almost could be said on the line to confirm foreign educational levels. So what bothers me personally is two things. The first is intellectual egalitarianism. It does not matter, then, how this article 6 says, or what educational programs are, it does not matter what kind of institution or university or university a person has completed. So there's no difference between whether someone finished Harvard or MIT or finished a school in Pristina or Addis Ababa. So the third level that bothers me a little is the level that there is no more individual evaluation. So, a man could be among the top 002, he could be called Marin Soljačić, the one who would invent the transmission of wireless energy that failed either, or Nikola Tesla, and could be someone who had as my friend from the studio, was called Jovo Govedarica, he had the idea to finish the Faculty of Economics with an average score of 2.00, and that was just as hard to achieve as 5.00 because he was given a score of 3 from the general defense, so he complained that somehow he could get 2. And I've been on the committee, and I've made a great effort to get a man instead of three two and achieve his life goal. So, the selection mechanism that we need to know what the consequences of this are to say the stupid recognition of foreign diplomas, that the selection shifts to labour market levels. Corporations of the so-called Human resources, departments, psychologists, managers, tests become the ones that judge people. What it looks like in practice I'm going to tell you on a practical example and here's what I'm going to say next is based on my basic experience. My son finished his master's degree at Fletcher and competed at the World Bank for Jobs. There were 26 thousand candidates there. The selection system is such that it first decreases to 6, then to 600, then to 60 and eventually to 6 with which the talks are held. So in a situation like this, we need to know that the academic community, colleges, universities don't have any more function in assessing the excellence of these students. It's on the one hand good and on the other hand bad. The third fact that bothers me personally is that there are no problems for automation, nostrification of educational degrees when it comes to serious studies, serious countries, or if you want very practically countries that have signed and applied the Lisbon Convention for several years. However, if this is a universal principle that you can practically get not only diplomas from virtual colleges. There's probably about 500 or 50 or 30 grand on the line right now. So you can get whatever degree you want sitting at home playing cards and chess. And by this automation means there's no difference between these. The motivation that many of our colleagues have forced the Priory to support this honest motivation. For example, the fact that a colleague from the IDS of that party who is now a practically member of the ruling coalition has supported that our people studying abroad have that advantage. However, there is no positive discrimination. I'd like to see her. That children of Croatian citizens in some way have at least priorities. Is this provision on the silence of the administration now 60 days, to determine for them 30 days, to give them some small priority. This way, there'll be someone in the same position who finishes college like I said anywhere and nowhere. And finally, one practical question. There's a colleague Hebrang who always thinks positively and I usually think 70% positive and 30% negative. Under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we are open to the labour market for all countries so-called. The Western Balkans. This in practical terms means that from tomorrow when this law is applied we will have to recognise educational qualifications for both nurses and doctors. The other thing is how and who's gonna take them to work, check their possibly specializations in the second rank. You have colleges that we have four medical universities in Croatia and we have a numberus clause and now you have a major rush, I speak hypothetically, a doctor from Albania, from Kosovo, from Republika Srpska, from the Federation, from Bulgaria, from wherever you want, you have no selection mechanisms. You must be aware of the implications of that. You don't even have what your colleague from the HNS formally suggested the elemental test of Croatian language. Because a man who is smart in English medicine can be an idiot in Croatian medicine. Although, everyone has a llinga... In Latin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally something practical. I was in the agency carrying as a little tequila the documentation of my own son, Mr. Secretary of State, to nostrate his mastery from Fletcher. And we come in front of the door upstairs, I think it's the seventh floor, and it says, "You can't access it.". I ring the bell, she says, "I don't know if she'll be able to see you." So the silence of bureaucracy and the sense of the power of red tape is something to be told about too. All in all, I would suggest that since I wasn't a little more serious about it until, I'll be honest, this morning if you could postpone, send in a second reading to do something, so we don't do much damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79370	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the incorrect quote of a distinguished fellow Letica who said the IDS is in the ruling coalition. Of course that's not true. On the other hand, when I spoke on the positive sides of this law, I spoke precisely because a good part of the students from Istria were studying outside of Croatia especially in Italy, Slovenia and Germany, and therefore I believe that the proposal of this Law is certainly positive as far as they can nostrate their diplomas here in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79372	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79373	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will not even try to link this agenda point to any coalition, but I would like to try to make my contribution to the debate on how much this task of recognising foreign educational qualifications is a simple task or complex task. Look, I'd like to start with two secrets first. So here we are in the debate today, talking about two conventions, about Lisbon, the Lisbon Convention, and about the Bologna Convention, but we didn't essentially say what it really stands for, is basically behind these conventions? The first secret behind these conventions is the desire of Europe to prevent the economic downturn of the European states and the European Union in relation to the United States and Japan. That's one of the basic goals. The second secret is to mobility, which is also mentioned today, but mobility must again be asked what is the objective of mobility. Above all, the goal is to significantly improve the quality of young people's education in Europe in a way that will enroll two colleagues in Graz, the third college in Vienna, the fourth and fifth colleges in Ljubljana and so on. So he can practically finish his education at a total of 7, 8, 9 universities. That's the point. The goal is of course to finally valorise its overall knowledge through the "ECTS" system at the end of the process. This only makes it clear that the task of recognising these educational qualifications is increasingly complex. The second goal of the student mobility system is which? And this is essentially a control mechanism, a strong control mechanism that will allow young people to say that when I was in Rijeka and when I compared it to Ljubljana and Graz, then my assessment is that something needs to be changed in Rijeka or in Ljubljana needs to be changed because there are significantly lagging teachers, education systems and so on. So one strong pressure on us who participate in the educational process to be better, to be more quality, to give more to students. Furthermore, the system of recognition of educational qualifications is further complicated by those universities that are doing excellently these universities changing teaching programs at high speed, high dynamics. You have today that at best universities teachers change the average of at least 30% of the school program from year to year. And ladies and gentlemen, you know very well, look at the indexes of your children to enroll the same colleges as we did, or unfortunately our parents did. Which is all just not good. The aim of these conventions, however, is to make it clear that our task of recognising what awaits these committees is to essentially improve creativity, inventivity, to introduce new technologies to young people as quickly as possible and to make historical factors, factors, data out of the program because they are given in many other places to learn and read. That it doesn't burden students. I even claim that we are doing 50% of our jobs here unnecessarily because academic titles agree, we must recognize the educational level, see if anyone can and can continue to study, whether he has a strong enough foundation, but professional calling, believe me, their recognition of nostration, will be a thing of the past probably over a few years. That's my deep conviction. In the United Europe, it will be the employer who will decide whether to hire Hungarians, Croats or Italians. He will see clearly what knowledge he has acquired. He'll probably be asked about the index or the program he's been through. So that part of us is becoming less, less and less burdensome. I agree with all those who said we should support these changes. I also agree with my colleague Letico whether we have to run at that speed, whether we can go to another reading and perhaps appreciate some of the relatively good suggestions we've heard here today. I don't think that would be too bad. But my message is, in the end, that everything we do has to go, aim to speed up the process of nostrification, but it does not allow any academic criteria to be undermined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79374	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79375	Ladies and gentlemen, by making sure that all the suggestions presented are particularly useful to us, it seems to us that it would be wiser to go into an emergency procedure for the reason that I have stated, and with another perhaps note. Here, when we talk about these qualifications, let us bear in mind that we are doing so at a time when we are intensively implemented so we are applying the Bologna Process in which the evaluation is achieved on outcome, by competences as a fundamental foothold and not by the path that has reached these competences. That's one thing. And secondly, we have not mentioned this in this short time, at a time when the whole of Europe for reasons which Mr Doric has now cited as the reasons for the appearance of both conventions, which is the creation of a unique European qualification framework which is so far a fiction, which is not there, which is only a tendency. That's what we're inside. And we've gone a long way in these efforts. Everything seems to me, I'm saying all this because it seems to me that we're on a good track to building a whole system within which we shouldn't lose a step either in dynamics or in the dynamics of recognising these qualifications. In that sense, therefore, with awareness that this is the process in which we are going safely forward, I would still ask that we stay with our proposal to adopt it in the first reading. In an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79376	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the club of representatives of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79378	Both amendments are accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79379	Amendments are accepted. They become an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. We can vote. The result? With 84 votes in favour and 6 abstentions adopted, the Final Proposal for the Law together with the amendments. We move on to the next point that we will surely be able to absorb in one part because at 12 o'clock, just before 12 we will interrupt this debate and go to a vote on the discussed points as already indicated. So, - Final draft law supplementing the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary school, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 595 Amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Education and Science and Culture. State Secretary of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Želimir Janjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79381	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Madam MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will accept this suggestion from the President of the Croatian Parliament and will seek to speak briefly in the opening letter about the proposal, the final proposal of the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools. The month of August is quite a difficult month for each family because it is a time for vacations, and most require considerable costs, and for those families who have children at school, the cost is even higher. If it's a kid in high school, children in elementary school, then it's quite a blow to the home budget, and often parents reach out for the purchase of textbooks on loans for several payouts. It's our reality, unfortunately, for a long time, and if we try to calculate it, for example in primary schools, that amount is moving somewhere between 600 and 1000 kuna depends on the class. In high schools, in high schools it's between 1400 and 1600 kuna. In four-year vocational schools from 800 to 900 kuna for general education subjects. Mostly, for three-year-olds from 700 to 800 kuna. If it is more children, if we add it all together, then it is indeed a substantial amount with all the equipment needed to prepare the student for the upcoming school year. If that adds up to the costs of transportation for secondary school students, then the expenditure is even where and where higher. Of course, it encouraged some units of local self-government to help parents and to obtain textbooks for their founders to share them free of charge, as in the City of Zagreb and other cities, and somewhere subsidise only what they declare to be specific social categories to help. But one thing's for sure. The situation is extremely unequal and we often have such a situation that those units of local self-government that stand better, where employment is higher, where the incomes of the local self-government unit are higher, and thus their budget to intervene and help their students, and where the situation is very difficult, where the budgets are weaker, for example, in counties where a large part of the space belongs to areas of special state care where employment is very small or in mountainous areas or in islands. There's no money there most of the time. We have an absurd situation to help those where the situation is better, and it doesn't help those where the situation is where and where it's worse. So really one very unequal approach, and we're all hoping that it's not good, that it would be good to even, but even in a way that helps everyone as much as possible. That is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to set things differently. So, equal approach to all students, thus manifesting your social sensitivity, and you respected MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament at the 23rd session of November 24th of this year adopted the National Population Policy and, among other things, confirmed that this problem would be solved in a way that would help all students or their parents in these education costs. The second document also adopted here in the Croatian Parliament is the state budget, which provides that textbooks will be obtained for all primary school students and students of first grade secondary schools, given that they have decided on a mandatory secondary education project. I say, for the first classes, because by amending what the Constitution, which the law will be defined as mandatory secondary education starts from the school year 2007, 2008 and that year actually marks free textbooks for that generation that will start in high school in 2007, 2008. This is, of course, related to compulsory secondary education. Therefore, the project decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will be regulated normally within the next few months in each case at a time and is being worked intensively. There's a few arguments to it, let me mention them here. So we really have a very low qualification structure in the country and let me remind you about 3% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have not completed any primary school classes. 18% are those who finished a few grades of primary school but have not completed primary school. About 20% are those who have completed primary school only, and that category has a total of 41% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. High school has 46% and 13% higher and high professional training. High 7,9 and the rest of it's highly professionally prepared. A very unfavourable qualification structure. We want to fix it. I hope that we can count on consensus about this, and the other thing that is important and which is based on what I'm talking about is the social exclusion that there is, unfortunately, in a number of environments where parents are not employed, where their monthly incomes are very small infrequently due to the high cost of schooling a child who needs to travel to the nearest high school and where they pay about 900 to 1000 kuna per month. When adding all other costs, some parents simply cannot provide it to their children and they remain at primary school level, and that means without any interest. We want every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to have an interest and to be able to apply to the Employment Service with a chance to get a job. What's important to mention in this whole project is that qualitative part. So not only this social category, and that applies primarily to high school. Today's situation is next. In high schools, mostly in vocational high schools, students rarely obtain textbooks, but they write down their notebooks, which makes the teaching process very difficult. On the other hand, knowing that few textbooks are taken, except for gymnasium publishers and do not prepare publications for vocational schools, in particular for professional subjects and textbooks for professional subjects, unfortunately we have very little. So when we start getting free textbooks next school year, and when we start first grade in high school, the situation will change significantly. We guarantee that we will buy textbooks for all students and the publishers will of course have an interest in these textbooks and preparation and in any case we will raise the quality of education in our above all secondary vocational schools. We hope that since next year, we will not only put all students and all parents in the same position, so to which we will get textbooks that they will no longer pay, but we will actually provide a better education, mainly in high schools. Except for these changes that are not one-time, which are not binding on us only for 2007/2008. It's a school year than it is for all the years that follow and that's why we're putting it into law. This is very clear to say that this is not a decision for single use, but we will also do all future school years, so continue in the future. In addition, we need these urgent amendments to the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools and because we have a new curricula and programme in primary schools and it is partly different from the current plan and programme. The law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools defines the mandatory compliance of textbooks with the curriculum and programme, and provides for the withdrawal of textbooks if it does not comply with the plan and programme. In this sense, a large number of textbooks need to be coordinated within a fairly short period of time. And the existing legal provisions set out the deadline for submission of the textbook's application, for new textbooks, or for harmonisation, shall be 1 December. With this proposal to supplement the law, we propose an extension of that deadline by a month or two, because we want to allow both authors and publishers more time to bring these textbooks together and to bring them into line, and for these very reasons we have proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure. I hope you'll have an understanding for that. In advance, I thank you all who will participate in the debate. We are also open to improvements in these solutions that we have offered if you have them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79382	Thank you. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79383	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education and Science and Culture discussed at the 29th session of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Teachers for Fundamental and High Schools with the Final Proposal for Law. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The debate supports the proposal's main intention to enable all students at the level of compulsory education to make free use of textbooks on the burden of the state budget, thus correcting the current practice according to which they are so-called. free textbooks were used only by students on the basis of self-government decisions of municipalities and cities where possible, with constant discrimination and permanent division already being created at the outset. The Committee particularly welcomes the circumstance that the intended regulation of secondary education as compulsory education is already being followed by an appropriate solution at the level of the state budget. The fact is that these items enter the state budget will not be able to be a one-time action, to be interpreted for these or those reasons, but one thing that becomes stable and permanent. The Proposer is advised to introduce the provisions on the financing of textbooks from the state budget in the proposals for the upcoming amendments and addition of the Law on primary and secondary education as parent laws and in the part where a part of the expenditure in the basic and secondary education system is determined to fall on the burden of the state budget. So that's another stabilization of the entry of these elements into the state budget. A proposal was supported to extend the application for the authorisation of textbooks in order to bring them in line with the new curricula and the programme for high and primary schools, the reason was presented by Mr. Secretary of State. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools with the Final Proposal of the Law in the form prepared by the proposings.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79384	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the club of representatives of the CNS, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79385	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, and in the context of this draft law that goes according to emergency procedure, I want to highlight the next 6 things. First, on 11 October this year, the Croatian People's Party club sent a similar text to the procedure of amending the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools. The identity of the provisions of government and our proposal is that textbooks are free of charge for children of primary and secondary education, and that implementing acts in textbook distribution techniques determine the competent ministry by implementing regulations. We had some other provisions that were intended and aimed at limiting the possibility of manipulation over the frequent publishing of new textbooks, thus creating new unnecessary costs in the state budget. But in our business competition, we were only two days late to meet the deadline of 30 days before the session was called, so our draft law is not on the agenda and we cannot conduct a united debate. What else does the government's proposal and ours differ in? The text of the law, the Government's proposal, does not show this, and the difference is that our proposal was very clear that the right to free textbooks was also given to primary school students and high school students, and the reasons for the Government's proposal shows that this law refers to only the first classes of secondary education, while the announced even constitutional change and secondary education is not declared compulsory. And there's another difference in the amount of funds needed. The government, in its explanation, says that the implementation of this law is sufficient in 2007. 240 million kuna. We calculated that in the first year of application of such a law it would take about 500 million kuna. Now if the three classes of high school were reduced according to the government's proposal, then maybe that bill would be accurate because high school textbooks are far more expensive than primary school. So this first part of the government's bill is acceptable to us. We support the sameness of thinking, thinking and government, but we are concerned about the government's opinion given on our bill of law. In view of the rejection or the two negative opinions on our bill, the government has written two things that are either not clear enough or behind it is hiding something else. One of the reasons is that the Government did not support our proposal at that time, and this one, I quote, "What questions are proposed to amend and supplement the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools will be resolved in a different way, i.e. the broader way from now on proposed." The government has announced a broader change in legislation. Now it comes with only three articles of amendments to the law and nothing wider, even a rope from our proposal and a second attitude. In order to introduce compulsory secondary education, I quote the Government's opinion: "It will be necessary to equalise the system of primary and secondary education, which means that issues such as the transport of pupils, the accommodation of students to dormitories and the financing of textbooks from the state budget funds through decentralised funds forwarded to their founders will have to be resolved in the same way as the changes set out above." In the light of the law, it is not mentioned anywhere that the funding of textbooks goes into the item of decentralised funds for 2007. Does it mean that these 240 million that the government says next year is actually going to be in that mass of a billion and 400 decentralised functions in the state budget? If that's true, then the total funds are reduced. And if it's not true, I ask where they are. Furthermore, it was also agreed that this year, ahead of the various markings of the Day of Persons with Disabilities, the Croatian Government, at the hearing and meeting with Ms Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President of the Government, sent a draft convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and, in the light of this letter, said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would propose and support this Convention and that Croatia would therefore be among the first countries to join the Convention, which is very good. However, in this Convention, there is an article 24 and the following provision: Facilitate the learning of Braill's letter, alternative letters and alternative means of communication, the skills of orientation and mobility and facilitate the support of peers and mentoring work. When the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks, two of our amendments to the textbooks mentioned in this Convention were rejected, which is this textbook. This is a biology textbook for eighth grade primary school, first volume and second volume. From this they learn biology from elementary school students in the regular school system who are blind in Braille’s letter. This is their textbook. The price of this textbook ranged from 2.5 to 3.5 thousand kuna. This is what parents of blind children who are educated in primary schools buy. The alternative is a computer with a voice unit, a Braille printer and a scanner whose price is between 65 and 75 thousand kuna in the set. Then a blind student through a scanner textbook for biology that has been verified and approved can turn himself into his own apartment on Braille's letter. If that's not there, this is his only source of learning. The amendments of the Croatian People's Party club to the law said that in the textbooks for compulsory education in the Republic of Croatia, this also implies this. The only provision in the law that exists, which could benefit the disabled children as much as possible, textbooks for children with special needs, is the textbook in line with the curriculum and programme for students with special needs and textbook standards. But this isn't a textbook according to a special teacher's program. It is a regular textbook written in braille's letter and therefore does not fall under this provision. In Croatia, at this point about 150 children are in primary schools, in the middle we have about 30 of them, and some have graduated from college, blind. Because of them and on their behalf, I'm asking the Secretary of State or someone to answer me. Does the Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks guarantee free textbooks for primary and secondary schools guarantee free textbooks for blind children? Yes or no. That's not what it's been until now. An electronic notebook for the blind, that fundamentally helps those who write on the braille, which costs about 24 thousand kuna, is not in the system of education, education. It is not defined in this as an aid not only from the work book or technical or auxiliary means, but it is fortunately inserted for this year to receive from HZZO health insurance funds, Croatian Health Insurance Institute as a disabled aid and gives it. He can't teach a blind child without this and an electronic notebook. I appeal to the Government, the Secretary of State, that the provisions of the law on primary and secondary school textbooks are an integral part of this law and that, without any ambiguity or arbitration law of state bureaucrats at different levels, decide whether these textbooks will buy parents on loans or they will get free of charge. I warn you that under the current provisions of the law, this for Croatian blind children will not be free of charge because there is no law, and the amendment could not be submitted to these amendments and supplements because they would be anti-businessal because that part of the law does not change. Not for myself and us, but on behalf of these children, I publicly ask whether the next school years and blind children in Croatia have the right to free textbooks like everyone else. If we get an answer to that question yes, we will support this law. If we don't get an answer, clear and unequivocal, we won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79386	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic. Partly, yes. In the second part, he will be representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79387	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. Anyone who knew it was against free textbooks would surely say about him that something was wrong with him. But there is still a need to think carefully about what is being done, what are the options and what are the priorities. We are in favour of providing free textbooks to everyone, but not until material resources are provided to increase the need to successfully implement Croatian national educational standards, invest in equipment, cabinet schools, invest in professional training of teachers, hire of professional associates, especially because of their inevitable role in programmes to prevent addiction and violence. We are also not for free students all until standards of school equipment have been adopted, according to HNOS, or pedagogical standards. When funds are provided for those priorities then conditions would be created for the implementation of this free textbook action to everyone. Until then, we are in favour of determining in social terms which social categories free students will be provided. And in terms of the innovative policy of a free book should be given every 2nd, 3rd and next child in a number of families. Otherwise, the parents who have money would tell us down at sea that the sea is salty, so it's also given to those who stand financially well and can afford to buy children textbooks. The textbooks should thus be subsidized so that parents are not too expensive. We believe that the remainder of the planned amount of 240 million kuna from the state budget for 2007 should be redistributed to the above priorities. What I told you earlier, the ministry has so far invested initial funds for only 49 primary schools in the Republic of Croatia, with investments of 25,000 in them, while for the remaining 731 primary schools no single kuna has been provided. I certainly think that parents who have money to buy books would rather have money invested, meaning investment in equipment, investing in professional training of employees or material costs. If we're going to talk about investing in professional employee training, we know that there are a lot of requests in the ministry for schools that need staff, and they don't get rid of it. On the other hand, we still have a large number of schools that block accounts. What I think is good in this document is the modernisation and coordination of the curriculum and the programme, the consistency of the textbooks with the curriculum and the programme, necessary and necessary in view of the diversity of methods. Not the contents that are mostly the same in all the textbooks. I believe that the modern textbook in the present sense must not be large and large. What is more important for the modern textbook is extracurricular means. So, exercises, workbooks, manuals and so forth, which would mean that the basic textbook must be cheaper and that should be the aim of the Bookbooks and Relations Act. In this way, the financial burden of parents can also be reduced. Just aligning with the curriculum doesn't solve the colourfulness of the textbook's prices. The need for equalising the status of students in all schools is indeed not right that in certain parts of the same country different relations with the basic right of the child, the right to free education, but also it is a place where no state standard can give rise to different interests that are impossible to control. For example, these are better, these are worse, choice of textbooks conditioned by financial opportunities or the like. What I find not of particular interest are deadlines within a month, sooner or later. The deadline is set at the beginning of the school year and whether publishers or others will stick to the deadlines is not important for the ultimate goal because there is also a penalization for it. The question is the same by which year the textbooks will be financed. This is laid down by the Mandatory Education Act. As he changes, the funding of textbooks is also changed. What has not yet been resolved in this Act is, on page 4, Article 4(2), the rules on distribution, use and storage are not laid down. It's only known that the textbooks will be obtained. What textbooks? Those chosen by teachers, which means for each school different and on the basis of which number will be obtained, which number will be published, what criteria of counting students and who implements them. The whole series of other things is also unclear, which means that textbooks can happen to come to school and that they don't know what's going to be further with them, so they may have to spend second-years on the same thing or something. Similarly, the equality of student status, equality is not achieved in a way that is given to everyone equally, regardless of who needs it. Parents are still in a less financial position to remain in an unequal relationship if given in the same way as those in better financial status. As far as IDS is concerned, we have suggestions that a pedagogical standard should be developed and adopted in order to see what each school has to have and whether it implies the existence of free textbooks, but also all other equipment needed for modern school plans and programmes and to ensure by schools that criteria are developed according to size, social structure or a similar amount of free textbooks that can be distributed according to certain criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79388	Thank you. In the second part, on behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79389	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. This article 4 states that textbooks intended for compulsory education will be financed from the State budget. It's good for me, it's commendable, for that will provide 240 million kuna in the state budget. However, I must note or rather point out that I was particularly impressed by Mr. Lesar's statement. He mentioned 200 people who have vision problems, so with blind people, he mentioned how much their textbooks cost and that perhaps one family for such a child must provide 10 or more thousand kuna for computers, perhaps 60 or 70 thousand kuna. So on the trail of this step-by-step, Ms. Doroteja Pesic Bukovac would be just to make it seem a distinction when a book is given between persons who have significant "material income" quotes on one side and these persons who cannot provide their children with such a single expense and therefore I hold that this particular dissintion would have to be managed in some way by the account and the ministry. On the other hand, I absolutely agree with the State Secretary's statement when he talks about equating the practice of our local self-government so that, let's say, the parents of Pula or Rijeka who are not in a position to pay him, clearly because he pays for free textbooks for his children, the next day he will be in the same position as the parent from Buzet, Rovinj, Umag or Zagreb who has a paid book actually paid by these cities. Someone will say, as Mrs. Dorotea Pesic Bukovac says, that as pointed out in Article 4a, the principle of justice is lost, that it is equal to those who are rich and those who are less wealthy. I know this is going to be difficult to build into the law, but if it is possible to help blind people, then we should consider it even if this Law goes into another reading, even if we wait a few more days for that solution. I personally believe that as the Law is proposed in a small part, it will also mitigate the impact that the Law on the financing of local self-government in those areas where profits exceed income, so let's say they make less income than they did yesterday or this year. All in all, it has to be admitted that it is a social matter, that it is a useful measure. What I particularly welcome is this paragraph 2 of Article 4a that the rules on distribution, use and storage of free textbooks will be adopted by the Ministry of Education. Why does that have to be supported? In order to finally bring those educational standards into line, and not to change programs every year, let’s say that a child who today is in his first - grade brother can’t leave a textbook in mathematics or I don’t know history or geography or I don’t know what. So these textbooks should be in place for a while, and if the state starts paying textbooks, I believe that this will also be taken into account because it would be absurd for every year to focus on these needs of 240 million kuna. For the finale once again on the trail, we make a distinction between those who have high incomes and those who have small ones and we try in some way to help blind children whose parents simply cannot single out huge funds for their regular education. Thank you, and... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79390	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79391	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Party's right is that it is a good decision to regulate free textbooks for primary and secondary education by the Law on primary education and secondary education, not by the Law on the implementation of the state budget, because in our opinion it is a permanent solution to the financing of textbooks for primary and secondary education from the state budget, rather than some pre-election move which could be interpreted as such. I'll just say one comparison, and that's the school year 1997/1998. when free textbooks for primary and secondary education were also funded, but then the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, and only for that school year, and not one later. So this item is for funding free textbooks that year '97. and '98. It was €100 million, and now, today, for the next school year, it will be €240 million, which shows how much education and education we have in the Republic of Croatia has continuously accumulated. In our opinion, this is the result of too many textbooks and the abundance of educational and educational programmes, which should also be looked after in the future, and it would be even better and better quality if this Law were to determine and in some way introduce social censorship, or by law not to assign free textbooks to students whose parents are in some way rich, tycoons, or those who have somehow become rich at the expense of the Republic of Croatia, at the expense of taxpayers, in illegal privatisation or otherwise. We're wondering how and how to arrange it? I propose simple and the Croatian party rights club suggests that free textbooks are entitled to those parents whose incomes do not exceed two average salaries in the Republic of Croatia. So it is not such a big problem to settle if we are to in some way only enable those in need. I suppose, therefore, on this proposal, our proposer will say that this is also, in some way, discrimination against a group of students. However, I must say that we have a large number of laws that are discriminatory. So isn't it discriminatory law on the salaries of educators? Isn't it the discriminatory salary of our teachers, teachers and teachers? So to conclude, this proposal is not bad but it can be even better and fairer. The HSP therefore proposes that free textbooks should be given to those who are really in need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79392	Thank you. For the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79393	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Of course, we can call this four-point bill a small law, but usually small laws always solve big things. And that's positive and good. At the beginning, I will only mention that the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this bill because it certainly solves a whole series of problems faced by parents and eventually children from a large number of poorer places, as was initially said. However, just to mention, I would prefer it, and this is also the HSS club thinks that today we are talking about textbooks and curricula and programmes based on the completed process of reforming the education system. That was better, it was already at the end of the second term and we have not yet completed the process of reforming the primary school and secondary school system. We keep bringing in some new curricula and programs and I'd like to finally put an end to it. And then it would be a lot easier to discuss all this. Of course, we now have such a situation and we need to talk about some sort of partial solution. The introduction also talked about the preparation of some laws, first of all amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and speaking in advance of some possible solutions. I wish those solutions were still here on the table today so that we can have the whole system back in front of us. It certainly carries other issues and other problems related to secondary schooling, of course textbooks, the transportation of students, the accommodation of students. But also about the overall reform is one big one-way course project, so we can also talk about a public private partnership. Schools happen, sports halls are built, and I'm not sure it's already known in advance what standards. Of course, you're building this moment for an existing education system, but it would be good if you had already said something more about it. So I appeal to finally come to order and some final process of reforming the education system. Two key things are being handled here. One is free textbooks for primary school students and first - grade high school students. And secondly, harmonising or modernising the curriculum and program. The textbooks are certainly useful. There were also talk of certain principles of justice, of differences. I'd say it like this. Come on, let's start now with free students and let's all work together to, of course, be representatives in the next term to improve certain standards in schooling by giving out bigger, higher funds for schooling needs. So we'll talk more about pedagogical standard, overall textbook, student standard, etc. Maybe a little around these deadlines. I hope that this is well assessed because the deadlines set for harmonising the curricula and the programme are better put in place to align the content of the textbooks, that they are well established. Today, here you are practically nearly half of December and the first deadline is there on 31st of this year and the second deadline is 31st of January 2007. I wish it didn't happen on January 31st that it wouldn't be able to make all the necessary advances on modernisation, about the changes to the better said textbooks for harmonising the curriculum and programmes. So, this deadline seems to me to be a little questionable, but here's what I do appreciate is that the ministry has come up with verified proposals. And in the end, just a little something about the textbook standard. I'd say this is quite an interesting subject. Unfortunately, she may not be so attached to this, but she is attached to the requirements that are being made and prescribed that certain publishers should meet. We know it's already been signed. Maybe a little too high standards are signed. I don't know, a thousand squares of storage space, ten employees per textbook, etc., where in some ways a whole series of smaller publishers are eliminated who sometimes have more professional and quality textbooks than large publishers who meet these formal conditions. Then why not set certain criteria to see who and whether he pays all his obligations to the state? I'd like to think about it a little bit because it's in the process. Here, in the end, let me finish. I got a chance from Mr. President, provided I was a little shorter before the plenary session ended today. The HSS will definitely support this. That's a good initiative. It would be good if the amendment and addition of the Law on secondary education came as soon as possible, so that we could introduce free textbooks for high school. Someone can say it's pre-election. Of course. It is both understandable and logical that the parliamentary majority decides the time and time when some of its projects will be launched. Better now than never. So the HSS will support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79394	Thank you. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79395	Thank you. Mr. President, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community Club has been reviewing the draft law supplementing the Charter of Fundamental and High School textbooks and will support the adoption of this law. For a long time, as my predecessors have said, the need for a systematic solution to the problem of obtaining textbooks has been indicated. The inequality of practices in which some units of local self-government through their public needs programmes financed the acquisition of textbooks for primary schools for all students or some for socially endangered students according to their financial opportunities led to the inequality of students in the Republic of Croatia. So most often and the practice shows us the environments that were able to be richer by means of budgets provided textbooks and those that did not and often were environments as the secretary of state said exactly those on special state care with lower social status could not do so. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to ensure the equal status of all students, consequently by adopting the national population policy that we have now adopted in November in the Assembly one of the measures in the field of child care and the introduction of free textbooks for all students in compulsory education. In line with Croatia's development strategy as a knowledge-based society, the Government decided to extend compulsory education to secondary education, i.e. thus increasing the number of young people completing secondary education and the number of those continuing schooling, which is important because we increase the percentage of the population with high professional training. Just to remind us all, only 7% of the people in Croatia are highly educated. These plans propose amending and supplementing the existing law in a way that adds Article 4a to the provision of insurance of funds in the state budget for these purposes. The budget we voted last week provided funds for free textbooks, and today it has been repeated several times at 240 million kuna. As the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools adopted in March of this year in the Assembly of Article 6 provides for both the conditions and procedure for the approval of textbooks in paragraph 4, I quote, the application for the authorisation of textbooks shall be submitted to the Ministry by 1 December of the school year preceding the school year for which the procedure is carried out and due to a series of reforms in which we entered. Today, all my speakers have just highlighted these reforms and the introduction of HNOS and what is most important in this school year 2006 and 2007, a new curricula and programme has been introduced into schools and there has been a reduction in both teaching content and weekly burden on students. It is therefore necessary to bring the textbooks in line. In order to avoid any disturbances in the system due to newspapers, the new programme and the planning of the distribution of free textbooks, the need for faster alignment of textbooks was also imposed and this second article was proposed in this article, as already said in the small law, allows for the application for the authorisation of textbooks for the third, fourth grade of elementary school, seventh and eighth to 31 December, so it is extended by one month, for January 1st and 5th to 31st, even two months. Of course this paper is. The introduction and free textbooks, the introduction of new programmes also require amendments to the applicable laws. Following this, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal. However, we also support those suggestions to the promoters who were also on the Committee on Education to bring the provisions on the financing of textbooks into the proposal to amend and supplement the laws of origin, i.e. the Law on Fundamentals and the Law on Secondary Education. Almost all participants in today’s debate said and pointed out that a whole series of positive school changes were launched, which is commendable. However, we must say that it is not possible to solve everything at once and better to resolve it gradually in schools, to introduce some changes gradually because you must know that school is a single living organism, perhaps this slowness here from these benches seems to be not good but people in schools, people practitioners say that this application is also a Croatian national educational standard and this introduction of changes in programmes and may be too slow for us but for them extremely good. It's good that this ministry, and I know that it's in the preparation and development of pedagogical standards, and it's taking this seriously, so with special attention, we wouldn't have to change something about it at first. Here, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79396	Thank you. We're gonna hang up now. We'll continue this debate on Wednesday. We must prepare for the 12 o'clock vote, for all preparations for the vote, technical preparations. That's why I have to break up before I do. So, continue session at 12 o'clock vote on the part of the debated points. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session and the debate on the final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. SDP representative club respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79398	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. Today we continue the debate we started on Friday, and it is related to the additions to the Law on textbooks when the Government, since the Government and the Ministry of Emergency Procedure are proposing to us to pass very short additions to the Law on textbooks. However, these short supplements will have far-reaching consequences on the system itself. The first is the introduction of free textbooks for compulsory education. According to existing regulations, it is a primary school because the primary school is still mandatory in Croatia even though we have ministry announcements, and it also says in the explanation of the law supplementing the law that the first grade of high school will also be done even though there is still no debate in professional circles on the needs and consequences and the possibility and importance of introducing compulsory secondary education. At the end of such a decision, it is also necessary to amend the Constitution, and therefore it is very pretentious to say that mandatory secondary education will be introduced by amendments to the Law on secondary education as it states in the light of this proposal. What we from the SDP as well as many other clubs that discussed on Friday would like to ask if we here in the Croatian Parliament think, for example, that the grandchildren of Ivica Todorovic should have the right to free textbooks or that, for example, the children of all those tycoons who robbed this country have the right to free textbooks. When we say free textbooks are not free, they are paid by Croatian citizens through the state budget. I'm not sure we're rich enough for that. I want to point out on behalf of the SDP that certainly our ambition should be to make compulsory education free of charge for everyone. However, this is not only a question of free textbooks but also all other school equipment and it is a much bigger and wider story than just getting free textbooks. Today, we have an application of a measure of population rather than educational policy. Some say it's a socio-election measure that's on your nose without the necessary professional verification trying to get into our own confusing system anyway. They wonder if the government would have decided at all if the elections were not parliamentary next year. But we'll leave that to the speculators. What we are interested in from the SDP is how and with which arguments this decision was taken from the point of view of education policy and practice, and we hope that the proposer will show himself about this, given that there are no letters in the reasoning of the law. What we would like from the SDP is that instead of the populist and pre-election measures, money that we obviously have and knowledge is directed to finally adopt a pedagogical standard because it is the only way for children throughout Croatia, children and islands, children in less populated areas to have equal school conditions. We are not against free textbooks, but we think that in a situation of limited resources, and we are in such a situation we should have priorities. What caused less attention in Friday's debate is the second part of the addition of this law, which concerns changing deadlines for authors and publishers to submit textbooks to the approval. We believe in the SDP that it is a very important article and for us it is clear and clear proof of the involvement and ineffectiveness of this ministry. There's more evidence for that claim. First, when we passed the Law on textbooks this spring, we of the SDP warned that the law required provisions that would regulate what would happen to textbooks in the situation of changing the curriculum and programme. It was then rejected through two readings as unnecessary, and these supplements show that it was absolutely necessary. Second. When we from the SDP at the beginning of the school year, we claimed that these school years used in schools were contrary to the Ministry textbooks Act, we only got personal disqualifications, and now the Ministry of Explanatory admits that we were right. It's just amazing how the Ministry of the Spring claimed that lawmaking would make everything right, and the truth is, and it's now being admitted to us in the very reasoning of the law, that it was just a mess. No textbook used in this school year is in accordance with the law. And by the way, school bags aren't any easier. Thirdly, the chronology of the ministry is interesting with publishers and authors around deadlines. She may even be the most picturesque proof of the Ministry's tampering. To be clear, we do not in any way protect authors and publishers, but they are an extremely important link to have quality textbooks delivered in schools. Let's take it in a row. The problems with the law that I am now supplementing started before it was passed. At the time, the ministry wanted the publishers to verify HNOS in a way that they would recommend to the approval this time by HNOS of all their existing already approved textbooks. The ministry therefore extended the deadline from the old law until 1 March 2006, and insisted that until then the publishers submit textbooks to the approval even though the law came into force with that deadline only on 31 March. The publishers agreed to meet the ministry, so the following dynamics were agreed, so by 1.3 they surrender for use in 2006 and 2007, and this is the school year, they teach textbooks for first and fifth grade. Until 1.12. In 2006 for use in the next school year, second and sixth classes and then by 1.12.2007 textbooks for use in 2008 and 2009. So, all the other classes. This dynamic has guaranteed as much quality work as publishers on new editions, as well as commissions at the ministry. According to this dynamic, textbooks for the first and fifth classes were made for this school year. But on September 15, ten days after the school year began, when all these already-made textbooks came to their users, the ministry announces a new curricula and programme that becomes mandatory in this school year. So, after the start of the school year, a programme is adopted that is required for application in this school year. And then the ministry asks authors and publishers to comply with the new programme and re-submit to the approval of the same textbooks they approved by HNOS only four months earlier. The explanation given at the time by the ministry is that the curricula and the programme under which the textbooks were approved in April 2006 was experimental, and that this is now real and final. And now we're asking if he was experimental, wasn't it completely out of the mind to ask him to be coordinated with textbooks and handed over to approval? Of course, there's a farce that doesn't stop. On 29 September this year, a meeting of ministry representatives with publishers announced the adoption of this law and the project that the ministry would buy textbooks for all primary school students and first grade secondary schools. Then I appeal to the ministry that they still try to hand over all the textbooks by the end of the year for approval in order to formally per HNOS before buying them for textbooks, for students, before the ministry buys those textbooks they are in line with the programme. The publishers, however, quite unanimously refuse to take it as a commitment, so the conclusion remains that those who wish to submit to the approval of textbooks for all classes and that, obliging only that initial agreement that books for all other classes should be submitted by 1 December 2007. We think it is only normal because this agreement is the only framework within which this part of the ministry's activities can be carried out, since it has come out in one way or another from all legal frameworks. The law was late. The textbooks are dedicated according to the approval of the old, and approved under the new law. And the learning standard with which all textbooks must be harmonised until today has not been adopted. However, 13.11. comes a letter from the Ministry on this bill supplementing that textbooks for the 3rd and 4th, 7th and 8th classes have to be submitted to the approval for use in the next school year instead of 2008/2009. as agreed. In this regard, the deadline from 1.12. to 31.12 is generously extended, so for a month. So, according to previous agreements, the ministry has given publishers and authors barely 12 months in 1st and 2nd grade, 6th grade, and now they think it's possible to do new editions for all 4th graders in 30 days. Is it possible that the Ministry favors someone? Could there have been any publishers who knew about it in advance? Unfortunately, we'll never get an answer to those questions. We believe that there are publishers and authors who will be eager to welcome this opportunity to submit textbooks as a new HNOS programme, which this year have been eliminated as insufficiently represented and thus get a second chance. However, it seems to us in the SDP that it is quite contrary to the declared objectives of passing this law when we discussed it in the spring. So what do we have in the end now? In the end, we have that authors and publishers must write all new textbooks within just a few months. In addition, the teaching standard has not yet been adopted, and should have been passed by the end of May. And now, with its tampering and inconsistency, the ministry has brought the authors and publishers into the situation that they need to write and fully equip all textbooks in the express within 3 months, which, because of the ministry's own impertinence about not passing the textbook standard again, will not be in accordance with the law, because the law prescribes that each textbook should be in line with the textbook standard. Fifth proof of tampering. Although it is very certain that this year the state will obtain textbooks for students anywhere in the law is not specified how the procedure will be carried out. True, the law states that these rules will be passed by the ministry. But it doesn't say in any time or in any form. If it's going to be agile in the ministry like they do when it comes to making a textbook standard, it's going to be a good wait for those rules. But we in the SDP want to warn that the whole process of obtaining textbooks must go to a public procurement system. We all know as well as what procedure, or how long it can last, so we ask ourselves. If it's all about public procurement, how come it's still mid-12th month now, it's still not known its modalities, and it's practically only half a year left until the whole job is done. Is this decision also planned to be made not by 5 to 12, but by 12 and 5 as we seem to be making all decisions in this ministry? Such bringing the public before a done act especially when considering a mediator who would then put huge money in his pocket smells of unlimited opportunities for corruption. And on behalf of the SDP, we would like to warn in time that in three months we would not have any additions to the law that would need to be arranged. In the end, announcements from the ministry coming in the spring on system regulation, on easier school bags, on resolving conflicts of interest and corruption have now proved to be only a more or less successful pirate. Our system has never been more confusing than it is now. And we end up asking who's actually in the interest of rushing and messing up the little quality textbooks we have. Is this because the election could be preceded by a populist promise to voters that their home budget would not cost the textbooks? So it's much easier to certainly be populist, demagogue to play on a map of frustrated parents and to announce bringing in order publishers and textbooks, than to catch real problems in school and build an effective system. Of course, we in the SDP think that our education deserves a lot, a lot more than this and this kind of cheap demagogy and pizzard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79399	Thank you. Nine o'clock, not yet. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79400	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleague Lugaric. They will not only receive free textbooks from children and grandchildren of Mr. Todorovic but will receive free textbooks from children of communist directors who led all major companies in the Republic of Croatia. And they are very, very sorry and have done in the conversion and privatisation of what they have done. And I continue to advocate that all children in Croatia and in the Croatian additional school receive free textbooks because I am sure and hope that God will be better, that they will be better than their grandparents.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79401	Thank you. Second, correction, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79402	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Lugaric, I've been in the system of education for a very long time. Your sentence system was never more confusing than standing. I was working nights when we got the curriculum and the program. For the first time this ministry has been the way the pilot of the programme for a year in 49 schools examined the Croatian National Education Standard. Education is a living thing and you can't bring something into it overnight. You must go gradually. What you're saying is pure political speech. It has nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79403	And Marijan Mlinarić, a respected representative, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79404	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is wrong to say that this smells of corruption, but perhaps the regular corrupt chains are being interrupted, that the Croatian government is finally giving textbooks to its children in Croatia. Corruption chains have been interrupted that have been functioning since they were in power for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79405	... SDSS, the esteemed representative of Ratko Gajica. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79406	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We also agree that it is a short law that has important repercussions and that this is the way to look at it. Of course the repercussions are positive and we will therefore support this law. I'm going to say here like this law is short, I'm going to say a few arguments that make me think that's the way to decide. First of all, this is what this is all about, so I'm talking about a free textbook. It's about the social aspect. Three things I want to point out here. First we help families, and we help everyone equally in a segment that is a significant family cost, which is a significant regular cost for which there is very often no money and that family and family, we even people and I think it's good and it's fair. They just need help. The other thing that is within this social aspect is that it helps children to be provided with what they need for school in the same way, equally neatly, with equal treatment and that is, if it was just before helping families, then here it helps children. There's not only a financial dimension I'd say, a psychological dimension, a socio-psychological dimension. So it's about equal treatment for children, and that's a very important thing. The third thing in this social segment is that a message is being sent about the common concern for the supply of textbooks and what is going on and, in some ways, a favourable atmosphere is being created between both children and children and in the school system, a single good atmosphere is being created throughout that mile, and it seems to me that it can be said that one rational approach can be given in the design, in the printing, distribution, in general, in the use of textbooks and all of this together, under what I said to the social aspect, brings one positive thing, and that is why the solutions from this law are good. The other thing I'm trying to say here is this aspect of the organization in the production, in the printing, in the distribution of textbooks. The law states that the ministry will lay down rules on how it will be done. That brings up another possibility that is not written here, which seems to me to come from the logic of things. If the rules on printing, distribution are governed, the choice of textbooks before then can either be entered into that segment or into that material or there is an opportunity to enter the order into it. From the point of view of rationality, from the point of view of practicality, from the point of view, it's also something that makes sense. I can't talk about how I'd like to say about uniforming a job, but it's such a matter that it's actually desirable that there's a sort of order of things that's common to it, that it works in a way that externally if I can say so, it shows order in that thing. It's an opportunity to achieve that too, simply to have criteria, to have standards and to have discipline and discipline in relation to that. That's what I'm saying here in law doesn't say, but it gives the ministry a chance and it's kind of exorcised if I can say so. Now, you can talk about what's been said before that some people have money, some families have money and there's a problem with that thing, but I think it's worth this to put the kids in the same position, and this question of whether there's any more money inexcusable I need to be resolved elsewhere and in some other mechanisms. Now I'm gonna say one more thing about the textbook. This is where the deadline is passed in 30 days. It can say something, and it doesn't have to say much. I'm willing to trust the Ministry's assessment that it's a time that makes sense and that will be used. But here I want to say one other thing, the state of the textbook, their choice, nomination and candidateing which should be chosen, it seems to me that in the current practice it is not good. And if we think it's only going to work out with some deadline of so many and so many days, then I don't believe it. I simply believe in what I would say, to a very close attention in this regard, in a critical relationship in this regard, because what we have with textbooks today is largely unsatisfactory. So I respect this deadline, I would like to respect the critical approach that this thing deserves more attention. I said at first we'll support this and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79407	Thank you. At 9.50, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. PGS representative club, SBH, MDS, respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79408	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry. Let us, therefore, take a brief look at the proposal for a textbook law. Our club, a regional club, regional parties will support this law because we therefore support the intensity of ensuring free schooling for all children in the Republic of Croatia, therefore to primary schools. The foundation for this is therefore primarily found in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 65 where it explicitly states that basic education is mandatory and free of charge. I think it's a good thing that the government started to pass this law, so it's a good thing that it became a permanent commitment to the government, so the obligation is regulated by law, and not just a one-time application obligation, and normally it was an observation that it was an electoral law. Just to remind you that our club is also the promoter of a similar law, a law that also regulates this topic. We are also proposing a law on primary education where, for the same reasons, it is for the reason that it is a permanent obligation of the state, for the reason that I think it is a constitutional obligation, we propose that a concrete provision be introduced into the Law on elementary education to finance basic school textbooks from the state budget, and we also welcome there and our intention to promote basic education, to extend compulsory education to secondary education. What was the situation on the ground at the moment? Well, the situation was like that, for example. Some cities, some municipalities, could do the same, given the size of their budgets. We know that the City of Zagreb has annually allocated more than 20 million kunas for these purposes to provide free textbooks to its primary school children. But, as I say, only some municipalities, cities or counties could do that, those who had solid incomes. Unfortunately, there are many and too many municipalities, cities and counties that, because of their small budgets, cannot achieve this right. So we think it's also good to pass it on to the state budget. Before long, we passed the Law on textbooks, therefore, which regulates this topic in this Parliament with hope, therefore, that the weight of school bags will be reduced, that the prices of school textbooks will be reduced and so on. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. School bags are still heavy and too heavy for our students, and they have not even reduced the price of these textbooks. And so for this school year, we had to re-purchases textbooks for our primary schoolmates who were very expensive. Here, for example, a set of textbooks for the eighth grade of elementary school, and here I have a precalculation, so it was 709 kuna. If we add more, then, other needs without a thousand and 500 kuna, then no student could go to some class of our schools. What I would also like to say, which is our wish, our vision, the vision of regional parties in the perspective of strengthening our regions, that the regions are actually the holders of our education, that they create their school programmes, that they finance, therefore, school programmes. And to find places in these school, therefore, teaching programs with time for example. programs that would be implemented in the dialects of our neighborhoods. I think that would be very good in perspective. So that we may develop in this way, therefore, our disciples are conscious and loving of their homeland. And I think, therefore, also that I would be more interested in the process itself in school and education, in the educational and educational process in school. So, for these reasons, our club, the MDS Club, the SBS and the PGS will support this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79409	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79410	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in principle, I support this law because it will still help parents. 240 million kuna is still too much for parents. I'm just sorry why it's only the first grade of high school because if it's compulsory schooling for the whole high school, then it should cover all the books. You know what I'm interested in? I wonder why we have to have new books every year. Well, we're not so advanced, we're not such a rich country, they're not our geography, they're history or maths so advanced that we just have to have new books every year of God. Well, there are countries that are more advanced than us and they have books that last four and a half years. And those books were bought by the state, and they're in schools. And kids use those books. Only if a child destroys that book is required to buy that book. So the books belong to the school. Imagine how much the Republic of Croatia would save money if the Republic of Croatia bought books, held these books at school, the children used them in the end, and I say, if the child destroys that book then the child simply buys that book. That money, 240 million kuna, which was saved could buy better equipment in schools so schools would be much more equipped. And like this, I repeat, I see no reason to buy new books every year. We're not that advanced in schools or in classes that either they are, or we don't have any textbook standards, so every year our books are bad. But then let's wait, make a good teaching standard and get the publishers, unless we're courting someone. Get the publishers to have a textbook standard, to publish books that will last at least four school years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79411	Thank you. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79412	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me say a few words after the debate on behalf of the clubs and the honourable representative Tomasic about what is highlighted in the debate. First of all, I would like to thank you on behalf of the promoter for participating in the debate and for supporting the adoption of this Law by an urgent procedure because you appreciate that this should certainly be done, in order to correct the current inequalities in which we have witnessed that richer environments can obtain free textbooks for students, and the poor cannot. Speaking on behalf of the HNS Club, the question was why only the 1st grade of secondary schools, and not everyone else, which is also the issue of the HSP Club and Mrs Ruža Tomasic. You see, in high school, it always starts with one generation, whether it's about a new program or anything else. So there must always be a generation to which it applies. So the question that's been asked, is that enough money, that 240 million kuna is definitely because we're going to the first grade of high school, and then the next classes. So it just has to start from a generation. The question was, where are the funds? Apparently, it wasn't seen in the budget. Well, at the Education and Education Agency, the item is foreseen with 240 million kuna. And I mean, if you look well at the budget, you could read out of it. The question of free textbooks for blind and impaired textbooks was also asked. I'd say it's knocking on an open door. All students are the same, free textbooks are provided for all, as well as for blind and impaired textbooks. And it would be wrong if they were the exception if they didn't get it for them, so I was a little surprised by the question. We have so far provided funds when textbooks were not financed from the state budget for both the blind and the undersighted students. In particular, the item was a million and 700 thousand kunas, as well as for students attending classes in the language and letter of national minorities. There we even have an open possibility and direct contracts beyond all these deadlines because we are particularly sensitive to these groups. Furthermore, the question was asked why not just go to the social category, why is it available in all other students? Well, the Croatian Constitution here is very clear in Article 65. it is very clear that compulsory education is free, so it is really free for everyone, and the respected representative Gajica has now said very nicely that if you ask the question of the children of tycoon if someone has come to their property in an illegal way then there are some other ways to solve this problem. For us all children the same and therefore the purchase of textbooks will be provided for all children in the Republic of Croatia. The issue of equipment for professional training, the employment of professional associates, etc. was raised here. If you have followed well in these 3 years we have really given a lot of equipment except in 2005 when the debt to the regression was so much increased that in the redistribution we had to remove a part of the funds from certain items so that we could pay off to schools in order not to function in a difficult blockade. So that year was an exception, but in 2004 and 2006 at no cost. We've hired of course professional associates, given consent and allowed in the entire educational vertical to date 4000 and 200 new jobs have been approved, which has not been done in the last 10 years. A question and blocked schools were also asked. We have a certain dynamic in which we pay off funds to schools to unblock them, or to repay the debts that were made in 2001 and 2002, means to regress for shift work and now we'd say in cash by the end of this year, more specifically by Christmas we'll pay for most of it. I won't say for sure, but it's possible even anything. There was a question of increasing schooling. I will remind here that in these 3 years we have recorded an increase of 38%, someone has been tied to the growth of gross social product, he has not been so much in this time but has been significantly smaller, I dare say that much more funds have come into this system, and since in this system not much invested for a long time I dare say that the separations in the coming years will be even greater because simply these changes that are going to be going to look for it and it will be inevitable. Of course, if we say that there will be free textbooks to ask for more funding, if we say that it will be paid to transport high school students, then it will also require more funds, as well as accommodation in dormitories, equipment, etc., so in the coming years it is safe to expect that these increases will be even greater. The publisher's question has also been asked. I assure you that this whole year we've been working very well with the publishers and that what we're proposing is not unrealistic, but we have an indication from them that everything is possible, that all of this is acceptable. The issue has also been raised with mandatory secondary education. I will make it clear to you that we will respect all the procedures, regardless of what someone will consider to be too ambitious, so we will propose to amend the Constitution where we will say in these articles that this applies to both secondary education and already in January we will present a model, a Croatian model of compulsory secondary education, followed by changes of both laws and basic and secondary education in which this will also be defined, but only after the amendment of the Constitution for what must be based on it. Mandatory secondary education, I'm going to repeat it once again is actually resting on two very strong arguments. It is primarily a low qualification structure in the Republic of Croatia, so about 3% of those who have never attended school, 18% of those who have not completed all primary school classes and 20% of those who have completed primary school alone. When all is summed up it is 41% of Croatian citizens who are in that category, which means they are without any interest. Furthermore, 46% have only completed high school, and 13% remain for those who have completed higher and higher professional training. We believe that one economy that wants to be competitive cannot rest on such a small number of highly educated people, and another strong reason is social exclusion. You have to let us unfortunately have a lot of families who are unable to educate their children because secondary education is not free and to allocate 900 or 1,000 kuna for transportation, quite a lot for textbooks and other equipment, some parents are simply not viable. In this way, we will enable them to send their children to school, to come to the first profession, and to significantly improve the qualification structure. In addition to all these changes we are going to make sure that the students will be better prepared for further education, but also for the world of work. It also mentions the teaching standard. I must stress here that we have made an exception to the so far passing of the textbook standard. When the Minister adopted this as a sublegal act, we have this time sent the teaching standard to the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture as a parent committee that has been manifested to the proposed training standard and we will be able to bring the teaching standard to the next week, so after all these suggestions. There is much more to be said here, I am pleased that Honorable Representative Pavlic here made it clear that this is not a pre-election move, that this is a law that will bind all future governments and that this is becoming our reality. And in the end, I would like to refer to another question that has been asked here, namely that the system is confused. So let me in these three years we started with changes, so both in primary and secondary and higher education. I dare say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79413	Thank you very much. Lock it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79414	There hasn't been that many changes in the last 10 years. If the changes made for some create possible confusion I'm sorry, but if it's being followed well and if you see what it's about, I think things are crystal clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79415	Thank you. Now a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79416	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of the Secretary of State who, explaining why he does not accept the introduction of an asset census in the award of free textbooks, says, "By the Constitution compulsory education free of charge." That's not true. That's it. If it were you then, so far you've violated the Constitution and all your parents would have the right to claim damages from the state back four, five years that's exactly what you're saying. In fact, this applies to not paying tuition, and it does not refer to it as free of charge for textbooks, according to that argument, it does not stand for you and that if that were the case, the state would suffer severe damage because parents could sue them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79417	Dear Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79418	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I want to correct an incorrect assumption, among other things, that because it was publicly spoken, it gave false hope. Namely, the secretary of state said the ministry would propose a proposal to amend the constitution. That ministry just can't. Only the president of the state, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and 1/5 MPs can do so, but he will look forward to me taking the initiative towards the government from the ministry and that the government accepts it to change the constitution and make every education free.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79419	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79420	Among many incorrect allegations is the State Secretary's colleague that an exception was made this year in the adoption of a teaching standard and that the standard was sent in procedure to the Assembly Committee. Namely, when the last time and the only time we have ever adopted a teaching standard, and Col. Janjic knows it very well in his previous term because he was a representative, the teaching standard was discussed not only at the committee session but also here at the Plenary session of the Parliament. Therefore, this relative to what we had in the last term is a step back because much less MPs and much less public are involved in the process of adopting a textbook standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79421	Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79422	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased to see that the conditions are actually starting to apply to the provision of Article 65. The Constitution of paragraph 1 which states that basic education is mandatory and free of charge. Of course, this freeness involves, first of all, not paying tuition but in a broader sense of interpretation, it also implies that the full cost of full education in primary education is actually borne by society or state. And in that respect, I agree. However, if this is constitutional law, then the question arises that this constitutional law should be regulated by? This is certainly not an amendment to the Law on textbooks, nor is it the Law on textbooks. It is the subject of regulation of the Law on Fundamental Education and it is not the right given to publishers and I do not know the state nor is it the mercy of a state that helps students in primary education. It is the right of students when social opportunities are acquired to achieve the constitutional norm. And when it's regulated by law. It was therefore necessary to draw up a proposal to amend and supplement the Fundamental Education Act for which this right was to be established for primary education. Another thing you'd like to say here clearly. Of course, the question arises, and often compared to the modern - day reasoning and reasoning we heard on Friday. In fact, the secretary of state was somewhat contradictory in that part because, among other things, he said on Friday that this is also proposed as a social measure and a social programme. If it's a social program, then it's not the right thing to do. I have to say it right now. It's the principle of realising a social state, social justice, but then it's not the right. If it's right, then all the students are right. If it is a social programme, then it must be taken care of the parents’ social opportunities because parents are also obliged to care for their children and to ensure their schooling. Therefore, this is not about the social dimension. It is a law which is laid down for all students of the Republic of Croatia in primary education. The situation is similar with regard to the following issues related to secondary school education, related to the first grade. You know, when it comes to that problem, then it's clear that there's no such obligation under the Constitution. For secondary education is not free and in this respect it is not good to refer to the Constitution. It can be talked about the incentive, the initiative to change the Constitution, etc., but this does not mean that within the programme that prefers the Republic of Croatia that there will be a state of knowledge and skills at the end of educated people, that it cannot, by its own programme, allow such opportunities in its laws to extend it. However, a very serious issue is being raised. Is it sufficient and constitutionally legally possible to provide free textbooks in high school for only one class? Because according to the Constitution, they're all equal before the law. Students in high schools are all equal and in such a situation the question arises is it possible by law to discriminate three classes and leave only one class of free textbooks? I don't think it's possible and there will be serious objections in this respect, and that's why it should have been done if it's already going to go straight to free textbooks for everyone. The second question is the possibility of funds. The third thing I would like to object to right away is that, and that's why I objected to why this law solves this rather than the Law on Fundamental Educations? It cannot be said that we provide textbooks for students free of charge, i.e. at the expense of the state and the social community, in order to achieve the provision of Article 65, paragraph 1 which speaks of compulsory and free education and that at the same time we have not provided for free all other student aids necessary for basic education, from I do not know how to exercise to regular courses and any other assistance necessary, under which the programme is envisaged, of course by the educational programme. Therefore, this too should have been covered by this measure, and in such a situation it is quite clear that this part should be resolved. Of course, it is immediately possible to talk about a social programme that should compensate this part of what is being done. But then this should be addressed by tax policy where people who earn more, have higher incomes taxed with a progressive rate of tax in order to actually relatively co-finance and contribute to financing public and common needs in the Republic of Croatia through the tax system. Fifth, the question is, you know, does it make sense that the rules on distribution, use and maintenance of free textbooks will be brought by the Ministry of Education? I can't figure out why all these rules should be made when we have a program. In fact, the programme should have prescribed this very simply and in this way because the programme is mandatory for all primary schools and in this segment we should, in this respect, always bring regulation to the regulation and in the forest of these regulations very often neither our principals of primary schools nor parents nor children yet, and children at least. Fifth, look at these deadlines set out in Article 3, they simply cannot be maintained anymore, because there is no point in staying until 31.12.2006, today is 13, to comply with the mandatory programme for publishing books that are necessary for certain classes that will need to be free of charge. If it is already extended until 31 January next year for all, then at least that deadline should be given by 31 January, so let me have at least a month and a half so that they can be harmonised, because in a few days, taking care of the fact that Christmas and New Year's holidays occur, that just can't happen. That's why it would be good, I suggest to the Proposer that he go along with his amendment and actually ensure for all of these categories that it is January 31st, 2007. Sixth, this is where the law is scheduled for the day of publication in the People's Newspaper. You know, the Constitution in Article 89 provides for the possibility to shorten or "vacatio legis" the publication of the law but then prescribes and that they are obliged to state the reasons for which it is sought, in particular justified reasons. We didn't get anything here, let alone the particularly justified reasons why the law is required to enter into force on the day of its publication in the People's Newspaper. That should have been stated, explained. It is not just a legal form, it is a very serious matter because we will then start to apply this provision in order, on the same day of adoption or on the day of publication, to enter into force the legal regulations which are characteristic of the practicality of the Constitution and not of the legislative function, and therefore we should not equalise the laws with the Constitution and constitutional laws that ensure the implementation of the Constitution or those constitutional laws that are prescribed by the Constitution so that they can be adopted. And the last thing I'd like to emphasize in particular. It is good to make reforms in primary and secondary schools that need to ensure adequate progress not only in creating material and finance if you want pedagogical, didactic conditions for the accelerated education of children to acquire certain knowledge and skills that will be compatible with the modern division of work in the country and in the world. That's certainly good. But it's not good to do it on a hood. I think we should adopt a programme that should provide that, in the next year, two days, all of this can be ensured in addition to these conditions and spatial and all other conditions for the implementation of this programme, and what is particularly important is the human condition that needs to provide an additional component. We have a constant strengthening of the educational function but often we forget that our children need and are raised in primary schools, and that part is simply more and more neglected and the question should be asked especially when it comes to basic education we must strengthen this educational function more unfortunately in today's modern society and its dynamics in fact there are more and more parents who have little time unfortunately for their children and spend a little time and they themselves do not have enough time to provide for the educational function and, on the one hand, do not neglect but are not able to achieve that role until the end of their parents, and on the other hand, neglect primary school. And on the third hand, more and more happen to us that actually the children of that age are on the street and left to the verse in the educational sense, so often it happens that the one and the good result that is achieved through education actually through this inadequate result in education experience its counterproduct and not the positive effect that we should have in social and overall not only the growth and development of the social community but also the creation of the quality of life in our lives. For this reason, I propose that the programme and tomorrow on this segment be considered in particular, and that in this context it is seen in particular what to do by the social and state communities, to provide additional resources, to ensure the facilities and spaces in which education functions can be quality provided both at school and through school for our children of primary and secondary education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79423	Thank you. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79424	Here, Your Honor, Mr. President, although I've heard a little bit worse about Mr. Mata Arlovic, but it would just, it's just, it's a little too bad to hear it, I have to admit, I'm just going to continue on this part when he was talking about high school and it's true... My club's view that there is no constitutional obstacle for second-, third- and fourth-year high schools also to receive free textbooks. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] Therefore, this does not stand for what the State Secretary said regarding Article 65. The Constitution. Therefore, there is no such ban and it could also be done. Now, speaking of this free textbook, I will only remind myself that this is not the first time free textbooks are introduced in Croatia. Namely, it was the first time it was for the school year of '97. and '98. when the minister was Mrs Ljilja Vokić and then it was introduced for the first time, but the truth was not introduced by the law of parenthood but was introduced by the Law on the implementation of the state budget and then the state budget cost you 100 million kuna somewhere. Now it's 240 million kuna. And now you can imagine it means in this period, it means since '97, '98, seven, eight years, how many textbooks have collected. That's your best indicator. So the ratio is 1:2.4. Now, that's the part about doing textbooks every year that my colleague used to say where you didn't give a reply to the secretary of state, and that's what we need to work on to actually enable everyone more accessible and equal education conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79425	Replication by Vice-President Honored Representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79426	Mr. President! Dear counterpart Kovacevic, the constitution is clear in that part. He says in paragraph 2, "Anyone is available under equal conditions in secondary and higher education according to his abilities.". So the emphasis is "on equal terms" and according to the abilities of the individual. If the social and state community is rich enough to achieve this, it can provide free textbooks not only for the middle but also for higher education, etc. And it doesn't have to change the Constitution for that. The Constitution has such a possibility and it needs to be settled by law but must be ensured on equal terms for all. And that is why it is not possible for this law to provide for free textbooks for the first classes and for the second and third ones to pay the part. That's the first thing I'd like to point out. And secondly, there is no obligation of the social and state community to do so. If he can do it, he doesn't have to. While basic education is clearly prescribed that basic education is mandatory and free of charge. So it's a little stricter norm and a little different norm than this one. Therefore, it is not necessary to amend the Constitution in order to provide free textbooks for both high school and high if the public and social community can, but it must be ensured by law that they do so on equal terms and ensure that they can have access to such rights and opportunities according to their abilities. Of course, this segment should take particular account of the possibility of a social and state-run community, to say the simplified register and in that segment, should not again be addressed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks but by amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79427	Honorable representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79428	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen! I will support the draft law supplementing the Law on textbooks in primary and secondary schools by emergency procedure because the adoption of the proposed law will provide free textbooks for all students in compulsory education. This small law of only four, five articles solves big things in Croatia. It will systematically resolve the purchase and financing of all textbooks for students in the mandatory education system so that the amount of around 240 million kuna is secured in the state budget for 2007 at the point of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So far, with all the discussions, the issue of procurement and funding of textbooks has not been systematically resolved except in the school year 1997/98. The purchase of textbooks was a considerable financial cost especially for families with several children of school age. We know it's for primary schools of about 1000 kuna, middle about 1400 to 1500 and vocational schools of about 800 kuna. Depending on the financial opportunities of some cities and municipalities through public needs programmes, they financed the acquisition of textbooks leading to the inequality of students depending on their place of residence. The Croatian Government has therefore fulfilled the obligation of all students in the Republic of Croatia to be equal and national population policies are one of the measures and the introduction of free textbooks for all students in compulsory education. Based on the development of the Republic of Croatia as a knowledge-based society, the Croatian Government has also decided to extend compulsory education to secondary education because so far it is 20% of Croatian citizens who have completed primary school only. I also accept the proposed amendments to the Law because the new curricula and the programme is partly different from the previous one and the law also requires the mandatory compliance of textbooks with the curriculum and programme and prescribes the withdrawal of textbooks if it is not in line with the plan and programme. Since a large number of textbooks need to be harmonised within a short period of time, I accept the extension until 31 December 2006 and 31 May 2007 respectively, as proposed in the Bill proposal, because both authors and publishers should be given sufficient time. With all the positive movements we can follow in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, we will expect to discuss the pedagogical standard in the Republic of Croatia soon. I therefore also support the proposed Law on elementary and secondary textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79429	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79430	Dear colleagues, byte, you said the government had fulfilled its promise to ensure equal conditions for all. That promise wasn't fulfilled. Equal education conditions for all are met at the time when a pedagogical standard is adopted and much more than when it is fully applied at each school. Today in the environments that are outside urban and urban environments we have a wave of unprofessional teaching, we have less equipped schools, we have more important less education conditions. It is therefore not true that all children in Croatia, that the same conditions are met by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79431	Replica esteemed representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79432	Speaking of deadlines in, which are changing by this law, you said that, you think that's enough and that's totally fine. I'll just be here, I want to point out that the school book that has been called the textbook must meet two basic criteria. One is to be consistent with the curriculum and the other and to be consistent with the textbook standard. A new curricula and programme was published in the People's Journal on September 15th. You think it's enough 2 and a half months for the authors to write 4 textbooks that use classes 5 to 8 or 1 to 4 and the same gyms, textbooks for students and textbooks because they need full equipment for illustrations, to make a full contribution of books and other. You think three months is enough for four quality books?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79433	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79434	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as the deadlines are concerned, those who are in these programs know and have great experience and I think they will quickly do so, because the textbooks are not written by those who have now appeared but by those who are in that system. And what I especially support this for is that it will bring order into the current mess and anarchy that has been stopped so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79435	Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79436	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. I certainly am for free textbooks for all, but not until material resources are provided to increase the need, successful implementation of Croatian national educational standards, investments in equipment, cabinet schools, professional training of teachers, employment of professional associates especially because of their inevitable roles in programmes to prevent addiction and violence. I also believe that it is not yet time for all free students, and this means that no standards of school equipment have been adopted in accordance with KNOS or pedagogical standards. When these priorities are provided with the means then conditions would be created for the implementation of this free textbook action. Let's be honest, let's just say if a parliamentary representative or a representative or a minister needs free textbooks for their children? Or those who have much lower social status? As far as the Ministry of Science and Education is concerned, we know that 49 primary schools were selected in 2005 from 146 registered for experimental KNOS implementation in the school year 2005/2006. So far, the competent ministry has provided 50 thousand kuna for each selected school for doactive curricula and has aided and another 3,000 kuna for material costs. In early 2006/2007. In the year, the Ministry announced the payment of 1000 kuna net to each teacher and expert associate from these 49 primary schools conducted experimentally by KNOS and as a reward for invested effort and successful implementation. One hundred thousand kunas will also be paid to each school in equipment so that they will be at the heart of the implementation of KNOS in the future. However, in the 2006/2007 school year. The implementation of the Croatian National Education Standard began in all schools in the Republic of Croatia. The ministry has set aside 200 primary schools this year and has pledged to pay these schools 25 thousand kuna. And the problem is, there's still 731 elementary schools left where there's not a single kuna. We advocate to invest first in equipment, invest in professional training of employees and also material costs for schools themselves. I think what has not been resolved yet in this law on page 4, Article 4, paragraph 2, of the distribution, use and storage rules have not been laid down. It's only known that the textbooks will be obtained. The question is which textbooks? The ones chosen by teachers? Which means that for each school, the different kind of in which the number will be obtained. Who will publish the number, what is the criterion of counting students and who implements a whole series of other things that are unclear, which means that textbooks can happen to come to schools and that they don't know what they're going to do next, so it can also happen that spent funds have to be spent second years in the same thing. As we advocate regional development and that the whole of Croatia develops in the same way, I must say that we are certainly looking for equality of student status, and equality is not achieved only in a way that is given equally to all regardless of who needs it. Parents with less financial opportunities remain in an unequal relationship if they are given the same as those who can do better have better financial opportunities. As for the ministry itself, as well as the acquisition of new needs, the ministry should take responsibility for all the free textbooks jobs so that local self-government leaves room for school equipment according to the requirements of modern methodology, the more the HNOS will, after some time, be able to obtain its specific methodical approach and not be able to unify all schools equally. I just have to say that maybe this action of free textbooks reminds me of the time I was in school, and then we were all equal and we were getting free books. And carry the corners.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79437	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79438	Dear Mr. President, I feel very comfortable today. You're in good faith, and the atmosphere in this House is right away positive. As far as this bill is concerned, I'm not much of an expert on this field of primary education and secondary schooling, so I took the opportunity to organize a wrinkle of ideas or... with Croatia's largest publisher, Professor Anto Zuzul, and we've been thinking a little bit about the civilizational implications of the application of this law, and in the end, we watered the old time with two cognacs which, when it comes to me, is not a very common phenomenon. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] So, what's this about? I think that when it comes to the SDP that there is a steady jealousy of the current ruling coalition, which is shown in many areas more socially sensitive than this old coalition government, and it certainly speaks on the one hand about the convergence of political programmes on the Croatian political scene, and I would like to believe that it is not just the circumstances for the coming year to enter the pre-election year. As far as dilemmas are concerned, all free textbooks or only part of the population of children. I am, for the principle of all free textbooks, as would be the principle of all corners and all informal dress so that no social differences can be seen at elementary school level, nor at high school level, nor at college level. There is one of the most intellectually used people in Croatia, Professor Ivo Banac. He will know that for example Yale is also studied by children of oil tycoons and children of emperors, kings. However, if you get there, you will never see the differences between the rich and the poor that you can spot in front of our primary schools, especially secondary schools where one part of the children comes with the Porsches and BMWs, while others come on foot in the mutilated suits. You see the differences there at the birthday party, and then when the special caterer comes with charter planes, the waiters come, the cooks come and then you see that someone is a little richer or a little poorer. So, when it comes to the textbook itself, this romantic thinking about the age when we were in primary and secondary school points to a real risk of the state of the procurement system of textbooks, especially if it ends up in some legal acts or regulations, or I don't know what rules your ministry would issue, which would prohibit children from tearing away sites they don't like, drawing butterflies, birds, declaring their first love because the vast wealth of history of marginality would remain poor if that happened. Today, the most valuable books in antiques are the ones on which Tin Ujević or Matoš or Comrade Tito drew something, and I don't know who, but in this sense, the disappearance of marginals from textbooks and the disappearance of textbooks as private wealth is one real risk that you have to take care of. When I'm part of a high school in America there's a system that's a respected parliamentary representative, Ruža Tomasic, mentioned that local authorities are usually the same county or state purchases from book publishers, then donate them to schools. There are shelves there that allow children to use those books. However, there is an institution there that I would also suggest to you as a surrogate for the destruction of this romantic concept of textbooks, which is that at the end of primary school, each student's school bag is preserved. And she stays at the school bag museum and if someone happens to get the Nobel Prize then after 20, 30 years people see what was in his school bag. It would be a convenient custom to introduce it in Croatia. I am pleased that our dear minister is very young and has children in primary school, and I am particularly glad that my very talented student is, and in that sense, I would like this model to be considered in a broader concept, that sublegal and implementing acts are on the trail of a very noble idea. As far as the idea's nobleness is concerned, the other day I suggested on one committee an idea that I would repeat here in this House of Commons and because I suppose this is being transmitted. To raise the dignity of teachers in primary schools and teachers in secondary schools, several gestures should be made. One of the minimum gestures that could be made for free is to establish a national system for rewarding the best teachers, schools, school spaces by modeling Dora, Porin and Tourist Flower. All that is excellence in our school, to award awards for the best textbook writer in mathematics, physics, for the best student, teacher, best teacher, etc. I would personally like Professor Banac to write the best textbook of contemporary history for primary and secondary schools, because he has absolute ability to do so. And I have in my own library several such textbooks whose time never passes. And finally, when it comes to the financial impact of this law itself. The textbooks are a minor item in the home budgets. Everyone has to be aware of that. So that 240 million kuna when it moves to student level it's probably somewhere between 500 and 800 kuna. So many kids spend in two months on average for cell phones. The general textbook will lose value as a teaching and educational tool. And that's why this socially sensitive government, and I want to underline it, needs to become both wisdom and directional government. And allow other ways to stimulate students. For example, for learning foreign languages, for more complex forms of computer descriptor, for different types of knowledge acquisition outside the girlculum. And finally, to ensure the noble competition of publishers and writers. Writing authors, textbooks, that everyone will know who wrote textbooks, even for higher education is no scientific work. It's a kind of very subtle work of art. And as there are very few people who can be Ivo Pogolerić when it comes to playing the piano, so are very few people who could write such a textbook that is an art. And because of this, I would not want the criteria of cost-effectiveness to become not only basic but one of even the criteria for decision-making for the procurement of textbooks. You should know that there are textbooks written by Ivo Pogolerić and textbooks written by some XY. So all in all, I will personally support it. But I would like to point out the very complicated implications of this legal project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79439	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79440	Mr. President, I would just like to remind my dear colleague Mr. Letic that his noble idea of rewarding the best teaching workers exists. It is the Ivan Filipović award awarded to best pedagogical workers from kindergarten through primary, secondary and higher education. Pedagogical workers in terms of theory are included. Pedagogical workers are also included in terms of their merit for promoting quality textbooks and so on. This award is awarded by the Croatian Parliament, together with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, and tomorrow at 12 pm in the Rebirth Hall has awarded these awards for this year. I invite my fellow Flight to join us in this beautiful and noble ceremony.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79441	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79442	I'm a little disappointed by my colleague, Selem, who assumes that I don't know something that everyone in Croatia knows. However, it is a matter of your fellow Selem that you think that the state should award such awards and you will see that you are proposing this in a legislative project that is on the agenda, which refers to the Homeland War prizes. On the contrary, I believe that this should be from a state independent award that must be awarded means independent publishing house, independent professional association, independent media, especially Croatian national television. It's just that this award can become like Dora or Porin, and the one that's being awarded by the similarity criteria isn't exactly the kind of prize that you or I would like to get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79443	Second replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79444	Comrade Letica, if, in that context, you were just saying, if you think gestures can improve the position of educators, I think you're in great error. Of course, gestures, awards, evaluation and evaluation of those who are good and their promotion is good anyway and it is good plus and it should be done. However, it takes much more than these gestures to really improve the position of educators. In the first place there are salaries and their material status that position them somewhere in society as those that are more or less valuable. And then everything, and everything else that comes out of the profession itself. Secondly, speaking about textbooks then you talked about some important people and people who are top experts in their parent sciences or professions to be good and adequate for textbook authors. Namely, it is quite and proven that it is not necessary for a man who is a good expert in parent science to automatically be a good author of such a special and specific book, i.e. books with a special purpose such as a school textbook. Because they very often, miss the other but equally important moment that's in school textbooks, it's a question of the whole pedagogical and didactic and methodical processing that they actually know nothing about. And in this somewhere is the art and the problem of creating the textbooks themselves because in one person it is necessary to combine at the same time someone who is a good Methodist, didactician and pedagogue and who has good or excellent knowledge of parent science itself. So that project is not, of course, successful, but it's not as categorically set as you said it would be good and it would succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79445	Honorable representative, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79446	Very logical exposure from the tradition of domination... So if the material consciousness determines the spirit that you were learning and your party then these models of stimulating excellence that I suggested are not in line with that doctrine. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] And as for writing textbooks, I didn't mention that top-notch scientists can't write top-notch textbooks, and vice versa. In fact, I made a "kay stand" with Professor Ivo Banca, who sits there unfairly and should be moved to another place. Among other things, a bad man sits down, and he hears, but nobody in this High House takes that into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79447	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenik, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79448	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't challenge my fellow Flightman to say this is a socially sensitive government. But I would ask you to comment on how the Government's proposal for a state budget has not adopted amendments where the basis for all social contributions in Croatia has not changed since 2001. Meanwhile, inflation is approximately for all these years when it's being summed up to over 18%. Well, for example, for someone else's care and care, this government thinks 400 kunas a month is enough for those disabled who are immobilized. It is also considered as children in foster families enough is 1,000 kuna per month. A four-member family with two children, if there are no other incomes, is enough to survive a thousand 360 kunas. If you think it's a socially sensitive government, then it's an honor. And by the way, in the meantime, average salaries and average pensions have increased, a good part of the socially endangered persons in Croatia because of the censorship and because of the increase in these average pensions, there is no right to social assistance. If that's social sensitivity, then good for you. And by the way, it would be nice when you're already attacking the SDP all the time, telling us if you've ever been to the SK and you're always attacking us, so only those who are morally clean and not there can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79449	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79450	Well, my colleague Zgrebec, she still has a vision that I'm with her at the session... He was sitting down, which means he's saying what kind of sympathy he has for me. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] And as for your social sensitivity and your amendment to the budget. Ask your Honorable parliamentary representative and your colleague, the Mother of the Church, my professor, if it isn't common practice for all governments to reject opposition amendments. Very rarely accept some and then cheat as it is in my case. They've accepted two amendments to pay me off... So they deceived me into the road to St. Gera, and they deceived me, and this speaks of an irresponsible government. [[You don't understand.]] And when it comes to the budget itself, the budget has been increased by 9% and the social gross product is growing by 4.5%, so I suggested to Mother Church that if he and I vote for such a budget we must return not only the PhDs and masters of economic sciences but also the diplomas. That's how it works for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79451	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in a moment's time, we would like to interrupt this debate, so he would like to propose an addition to the agenda. We continue to discuss the final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79453	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my individual debate, I'd like to say two facts that are very... Mr. President, it's very difficult for me to speak in a situation like this and when my colleagues... If I were to beg that I start from the beginning now, considering that those who went out, who were going to go out clearly came out. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. So let's start over. At the beginning of my individual debate, I would like to say only two things that seem crucial to me when we talk about school textbooks that we very often forget in this political or any other public debate. What a book that wants to be called a school textbook is different from all other books is precisely what its content is predetermined by the curricula and the program, and that is why the curriculum and the program is extremely important for the textbooks themselves. And secondly, as regards its design, text editing, access and the like, it's defined by a document called the textbook standard. The program by which we will work, i.e. the authors should work textbooks was adopted on 15.9. The training standard isn't yet. Another thing that seems important to me to say, it's a very common delusion, it's simply that every teacher, every school simply doesn't need to use textbooks at all. Very often it is spoken as if textbooks are compulsory teaching tools, but they are not. What's in our regulations is that those who decide to use the textbook can and can only use those textbooks that have passed the ministry approval procedure. So no one has ever said or done so in the profession that any textbook in any teaching class must be used. Since it is an urgent process that unites first and second readings, I would like to propose one addition to the law that I think would be good to include in this law, which concerns changing the provisions on conflict of interest, i.e. tightening the provisions on conflict of interest. I said at the beginning that it was very important for the content of the textbooks what the content of the curriculum and program is, since it also defines the content of the textbooks. Based on the answer to my parliamentary question, the ministry said that 51 textbook authors or authors were also in the commissions that set out a new curricula and programme. These are not all, of course, since another part of the authors, therefore, not all of them, but one of the chosen parts of the author's ministry participated in making the HNOS, which is a new curricula and programme. To them, at the beginning of the programme, or individual teaching courses, the entire number of individual teaching subjects in the programme is thanked by the Ministry for their assistance, etc. However, I think that this has led them in some way in a privileged position compared to all others who already are or want to be the authors of textbooks. And of course it will be 3 months enough for them to write all the textbooks when they knew in advance what would be in the curriculum itself, which should be the content of the textbooks because they simply participated in it. Those others who were not elected by the ministry did not know that and those who participated in these committees for the curriculum and the programme are simply in a privileged position compared to these others and I think that this should be complemented by the law because it is simply wrong. And from the point of view of the competition itself and from the point of view, ultimately, and ethics. Of course, I don't believe it was by the ministry on purpose or I don't want to believe it, but the fact is that this kind of principled work led the ministry into a privileged position just some authors and just some publishers and it's not right. And we need to change that, I hope that in that sense you will extend these provisions on conflict of interest. Secondly, this was mentioned by fellow Gajic in his discussion on behalf of the club, the running of publishers, almost hysteria per school, donations of publishers primarily to directors, and then to these active leaders and individual teachers to choose their textbook is still a problem still not solved. The publishers buy equipment for schools to do so and therefore choose their teachers from their textbooks. We've had examples where they've been paying certain principals some kind of trip, sailing, and I don't know what's been going on. It's still not solved in any way. What I'd like to ask is who's actually in charge of doing the teacher's professional education. Namely, since the publishers have money and a clear business interest, they organize teachers’ education under that name and are actually about a clean promotion of their own textbooks. But even bigger publishers and stronger ones can do much more. Those smaller publishers, of course, don't do it because they're smaller and they don't have money and resources for it. In doing so, smaller publishers have been brought into a much worse and more unfavourable position than others. If they were to restrict the professional training of teachers to do whether professional associations of teachers, teachers, or to do so in certain chambers, such as the Psychological Chamber, or to do so through the program of the institute, we would in some ways prevent publishers from doing education. Let them work on their promotion, but let it be called promotion, not in some way education. Although little money from the state is invested in educating teachers very often it is quite solid and an opportunity in some way to further educate teachers. It is another thing that I think should be amended and complemented by this law in order to avoid these things that some know more because they were closer to the ministry or because they have more money being market-friendly than others. As far as free textbooks are concerned, I've already said on behalf of the SDP Club that we are not personally opposed to free textbooks. However, there are certain priorities. I would also personally like to highlight the real need for adoption and much more important implementation of the pedagogical standard, which would then significantly define the provisions of education and everything else. What's interesting enough to say here, it's a colleague of Mlinarić, I think, called on the provision that all children should be equal. We just had a debate last week at the Children's Compensation Act, and by which all children are not equal. All children have the right to a child's allowance, which is also a social measure as well as these free textbooks, but the basis of the property censorship of a single parent's parent is also the category of child's allowance that these children have. Perhaps if it had been thought of in a way that this same censorship, given that these calculations already exist, I say all children have the right to a child's allowance, apply it here at the textbook, would have avoided really getting textbooks for those who need it. Or, perhaps, more accurately, they do not get those who really do not need it, or who have the means to obtain textbooks. And last thing you'd like to say, I don't think all of this school stuff should be seen just and only administratively, but that we should keep in mind the real situation that's in school, which is in class. You don't know yet because as far as I hear it, there are some variations that the state, if it's going to buy textbooks, would then make the textbooks use for 3 or 4 years. That is, children and families are returning them to school, which is to be used by other children. No matter what it is from the point of view of the economic state, from the point of view of education, the education of the nation, and even from an emotional point of view, I don't think that's right. Very often, and this especially applies to poorer families and less educated families, the school textbook is the only book that enters a family. And if our goal is to raise the education of the population, I think we should think about once the books of the students and the family, or get to treat them that way. Another argument is that the newer methods of learning and teaching, thus somehow coming out of the HNOS itself, involve active access and active work with material, any teaching tool or help, and so on with the textbook. It will be very difficult and contrary from the point of view of this new Padagogical practice to forbid in some way or to prevent or demand that books be returned to disabling students, especially in the lower classes of primary school to write in textbooks, to keep notes, to work actively with a book because it is one of the goals of teaching children how to learn from written sources and I think it would be very important to consider it when we still make some administrative or legal decisions. And in the end, I think that really, given what was said in this debate, we need to discuss the introduction of compulsory secondary education, it's a lot more than the questions of textbooks, and I'm quite certain that colleagues in the ministry know both the issue of transportation and the question of building dormitories that we hardly even have at all, or we have in very small numbers. But this is a question if we make high school compulsory, it must be a school that any student or student will be able to finish. We have too many children today falling out of the secondary school system, those who have already entered the system not because they have no money, but because in it, the system is not successful and not enough, it is even as difficult as it was not enough to change the Constitution. That's the easiest part. New programs, new buildings, funds, educated teachers think it's a lot more, that it's very difficult to talk about it this casually without a more detailed professional, primarily professional discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79454	Thank you. Now we're going to a five-minute individual debate on registered clubs. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79455	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Representatives. Finally, it will be so that there will be no representative who will not support this legislative proposal. I claim this is a good legal proposal, if it was a good legal proposal when Zagreb introduced free students or one Buzet or Umag or Poreč then it is certainly good and this proposal. This state budget is about 240 million kuna. Someone is going to say that this will ease a social impact, but this helps in some way and those environments that have been lost in the new system of funding local self-government. Zagreb lost about 500 million kuna, but if they are one fifth of Croatia, it brings them 50 million kuna, and 50 million kuna is one pool or three school halls, etc. One Rovinj seems to be the biggest loser I've ever been talking about. Now is it possible to say as Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac earlier speaks on behalf of the club IDS those who have more to pay, and those who have less to be spared the expenses for books. But it's easy to say, but it's pretty hard to do. I know what it looked like in Buzet when he decided on free books clearly to everyone. When you get to one particular one, then you can see that this problem is getting a little bit more serious. Now let's go like this. 15 thousand kuna, that's two large salaries, 15 thousand kuna clearly it's more than 10 thousand kuna which are, two say, above the average salary, but here somewhere within the average, but is now that 15 thousand kuna, and you live in one rented apartment more or more 10,000 kuna, and you live in your apartment in '91. Or '92. You bought for 7 or 8 thousand marks or you inherited it or I don't know you inherited some other property. I understand simply the promoters that it is difficult to determine one fair principle and therefore this principle is not the same for everyone to reject. However, I also agree with children with developmental difficulties, mostly blind children, such as in Croatia somewhere 200-thin people have to get more than just free textbooks, but they have to get free computers or computers, and if there is no money for it, then tell the completely open state secretaries of the family who have more than 15 thousand kunas of income regardless of their material property status, they will not have the right to free textbooks. But once again, I'm going to say this principle of who's right, who doesn't have a hard time expressing it because I'm saying that someone who has ten thousand kunas and lives in their house is actually living better than the one who has 15 thousand kunas and lives in a rented apartment. Someone is reporting incomes, someone is not reporting, and we all know here that this statistics that says that 700 thousand people in Croatia are somewhere around a minimum salary of 900 kuna simply doesn't correspond to the truth. Let's not fool ourselves, but so much about it. So much of this principle of book to everyone, it's not a bad solution when the most needed would not be bypassed, and these are blind, these are children with developmental difficulties. Someone will say that with 240 million kuna a few schools, halls, etc. could have been arranged, but let's let it go through the decentralisation system the next day to take care of the local environment. And lastly, I agree that it is not fair that in some local areas you have free books, and in the other you do not, that one Zagreb has, Rijeka has, one Rovinj has, one Pula has, one Buzet has, one Opatija has, one Poreč has, one Marcana has, and therefore this, regardless of what it will not be necessary for parents, but it will be good for them for one child from 500 to 800 kuna, so the principle that will in some way equalise local self-government is at least just. But once again, don't go around or neglect those categories that are most affected, those families that are in some way the most affected, which are those families that have these children with development needs. The expenditures of such families are enormous and these people need to be met maximumly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79456	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79457	Mr. President, this Law does not apply the principle in which units of local self-government are equated, as stated by counterpart Cain, and I am correcting that claim. This Law gives students the right to receive free textbooks in basic education. This is something else, and in such a situation, we must not ignore the fact and personality of textbooks, and also their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79458	HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79459	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear state ministers. I have to admit a little confused by my colleague Letica when he said that this government is more socially sensitive than the previous one, and some of us have kind of perceived both, then you're a little socially sensitive, so you're not a little bit, but you certainly need to take care of that aspect of our sensitivity. The very fact that we're discussing textbooks shows that we're actually still participating deep into Gutenberg's galaxy and that the textbook is just one basic tool for transferring information and knowledge. But the whole debate still showed that we are still deep in that pre-modern policy. Instead of dealing with education policy, we are more involved in politicising education, and that is also a fact, so it is in some way we are trying to show that all these actions are focused on it, I don't know what 2007 or early 2008 is before the election year, and then, in some way, we are trying to get political points with this kind of non-political activity. I don't think that's a good thing, that we should start with this fact that the story of equality, of justice is a sweet, beautiful story, but that she's actually, let's be honest, inexplicable. Not only are we but it's also not the same to go, I don't know about school in Harlem or East London or some other parts of New York or London. And in the end, many books are written just as well as the very beginning of schooling, and it certainly determines our vocabulary and our ability to make it easier for us to succeed in life later on. Of course we should talk about education policy which certainly is not only free textbooks and this legal distribution but also has a whole series of other segments of that banality that only a well and satisfied student, professor, teacher, teacher can actually create assumptions that the environment in the class, in the seminar, is good. But the HSLS club will support all those activities that are just going to make this difference, these inequalitys however as much less possible. And this is exactly this one attempt to actually correct this injustice that exists because it really doesn't matter if you live in Kostrena or live in Moldova or in some other municipalities, cities that are rich to God, who have problems with how to spend money and also the fact that our 600th unit of local self-government and administration exist and many of those who are really struggling with this most normal functioning. And in that sense, this is an effort that is precisely going towards this inequality and this injustice scares itself and that it does not actually get one false impression that a mayor or a mayor is more capable and the other is less capable than exactly the state of what is one of its most important activities, which is precisely the activities on the agenda of education and education that it intervenes and that it tries to introduce these standards that will help us to at least get close to starting with the same positions in life. In this sense, the HSLS club will support this law and in it would not want to see any pre-election campaign, and with that same thing as some of the facilities that others have given should certainly be taken into account because this textbook, or next to it, has this useful value and certainly what fellow Letica was talking about, and that it is necessary to think very well that this relationship of the facts of storage is somehow trying to overcome some other possibilities. But in short, the HSLS club gives full support and once again warns about the problem that has been shown in some units of local self-government that it has happened with the problem of distribution, that it does not go so easily if, in fact, political, campaigning and not systematically and analytically approach it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79460	Thank you. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Dragutin Pukleš, has scheduled a meeting of the Committee, which, today at 13:30 in his office, is in room 244/2. It's an HSS rep club. Five minutes of debate. The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79461	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister! Well, let us, in these few minutes in the final debate, repeat and perhaps refer to some additional things on behalf of the Croatian Peasants' Party club. As I was saying on behalf of the club at first, this is a good example of how small laws deal with big things. This seems positive, and that is why the Croatian Peasant Party Club will absolutely support this bill or initiative to provide free textbooks for compulsory education. However, as we have spoken in the opening section, I would also like to repeat here that the opportunity for the overall reform of primary and secondary school education, which would be the basis for which some conclusions and laws could then be clearly implemented. In fact, we do not have at the same time here and the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on secondary education, although the introduction of an explanation tells us that it is planning to release very soon in the parliamentary procedure and this bill where secondary education would be introduced as compulsory education. It is also in the opening statement very clearly written that free textbooks are being introduced for all pupils in primary school and in first grade high school. I have carefully followed this final bill, here very clearly in the first article writes, financing textbooks intended for compulsory education. That says it all, so I won't even repeat any arguments. On the contrary, we are very little objecting that we did not have the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on secondary education, where secondary school education would be introduced as mandatory, and then they would make it easier for a whole series of local and regional or regional self-government units to handle the transport of students and scholarships at the end of secondary schools, that they are planning more or less in their budgets. This is where I'm talking about my first grade high school, and we don't know whether or not it's planned to be dealt with by the laws, but we don't see any legal proposals. What I want to say in the end is that the deadlines set out in this proposal for the law on the alignment of textbooks seem a little too short for us. Today is the 13th or I don't know when the bill will be passed will be 15. I guess all those publishers who know about these changes are already preparing these changes and they're going to arrive, but we're going with some hypothetical assumption that they're only starting to prepare from Friday, then neither would the 31.12.200s have arrived. That's why I wanted to maybe give a little attention that it's way too short, but I'm really hoping it'll get there. Also, this social principle of fairness that was discussed with this speaker was I would say should be sought in other educational projects and the Croatian Peasant Party certainly strongly supports the idea of providing free textbooks and free transportation for both primary and secondary education. In particular, children with special needs should be included, taking total. And once again, I draw attention to the ministry, first of all, that it should be looked after when prescribing certain conditions for teaching standards in certain competitions that have already been withdrawn, because it turns out that these conditions will be able to meet only two to three publishers and sometimes those who may have better textbooks, so the contents in these textbooks, for formal reasons, thousands of square meters or ten employees per textbook will unfortunately hang. So I would like to stress, we regret that there are no amendments to the law on secondary education here and the addition of the law on secondary education to establish mandatory secondary education today, but the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79462	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79463	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state, representatives of the government! So the Croatian Party's assessment of the rights that this debate pointed to the fact that the solutions in the final draft of the Law on Supplements to the Charters for Fundamental and High Schools could have been far more high-quality that the law was carried out in the regular procedure, so first and second reading, and these are always errors related to the urgency of the procedure. We normally estimate that every shift in the field of providing free textbooks for primary and first grade high school is welcome, but as the secretary of state said at the beginning of Friday from his presentation that this law also has a social category. Therefore, the Croatian Party's right club, which Mr. Pejo Trčević said nicely, has made the amendment that this approach can be socially and far more just. And for this reason, the HSP club gives an amendment to determine the property censorship and so that the basis would be made by two average salaries and means belonging to those groups would have the right to free textbooks and this amendment allows children of the second, third and fourth years of secondary education to get this right, because today we are in the debate Mr Arlović and I were just talking about this in relation to Article 65. The Constitution correctly established that this law can be regulated. Therefore, I know that this may be a particular problem for you in the ministry, but when we look at the social situation, when we look at the situation that people, so parents had to do it even for this school year, it means in September to raise loans to buy books and all that it takes to get the kids to go to school, then I guess you in the ministry can at least spend this part about this way or the Croatian Party club proposal right to introduce property censors and do it because I know it's hard for you but it's another way to be in the full sense of that word and to determine the criteria that will be far more socially acceptable and fair because you can't, no one can claim that even the children of the tycoon if we're a social state have the right to free textbooks. So why not give the children of the workers, why the children of the peasants, why not provide the children of the defenders with the conditions that they can be educated in both colleges and everywhere, and we know that it is such a position that their families are barely able to enable their children to attend high school when this part of the charge is taken, especially if children have to travel by bus, if it is about secondary school and all the other peripetities that their parents are exposed to. Therefore, in order to be far more quality, I suggest that you accept the amendment of the Croatian party club and extend this right by your own amendment to all high school students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79464	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79465	Mr. Kovacevic says it's an asset censorship that determines him to be socially more acceptable to the law he knows. I agree that the law is not ideal but once again I will ask the question publicly, openly whether the two average salaries of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79466	Thank you very much. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79467	... less or more than who has... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he doesn't have an apartment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79468	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, it's a comment and a request, so it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. So why are you doing it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79469	I'm polarizing with that thesis more socially acceptable. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79470	Yeah, yeah, it's not nice. Final Review State Secretary Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79471	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs! Thank you all for participating in the debates. Obviously, your concern for the education system is much broader than this textbook problem, and that's why you've articulated here a series of proposals that are beyond these frameworks. We will indeed consider all that is said here and take great care of it when we consider it in the context of these changes ahead of us. I'll just say for a little while, we announced mandatory secondary education and we already have the first and second part of a study that we do. I want to tell you here that we are working really seriously on this, that the third one will be done by the end of this month and that we will, of course, discuss it afterwards. I'd just like to say for a little while at the end. So, I assure you, of course, we will take care of the best possible way of getting the distribution done, bearing in mind that there were problems with some local communities in the first year when they provided free textbooks. And that's why, of course, we predicted it in the law. As far as the deadlines are concerned, he was too short for the publishers by December 1st. This law extends it for a month or two, and we think it's a good solution. Thank you very much for supporting the adoption of this law. I am sure that the Croatian public will certainly welcome the adoption of this law and others who will follow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79472	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of HSP Representatives. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79474	They're taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79475	Thank you. They become an integral part of the Law. HSP MPs' club amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79476	It's unacceptable. We have made it clear that all students have been the same since the beginning of the next school year, 2007/8. free textbooks for all students attending compulsory education.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79477	HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79478	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. You said this law has a social category. That's why we gave the amendments because not all parents are the same, and we know what the situation is. If you wanted to think about it, you would have accepted these amendments and then given the opportunity to get textbooks for all children, so that means 2 and 3 and 4 years of high school. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-08-0.u79479	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. I'm giving it to... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, that's what you do manually, that's why you don't. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Now, please, let's get on with it. ... For the amendment of the HSP representative, I asked who was in favour of the amendment. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] No, it's voted manually on all amendments. All amendments shall be voted by hand, on all laws and texts of decisions. All right, who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 92 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 2 against the proposed law, together with amendments, accepted amendments. We go to the following point: - Final proposal for a law confirming the Protocol amending and supplementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia, of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, on customs quotas for sugar and sugar products originating in Croatia or in the Community, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 599 Proposer of the Law is Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate: Committees on legislation, agriculture and forestry. Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Minister Petar Cobankovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
