ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73156	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs! You have a regular report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2005. The basic policy definition of drug abuse prevention is the continued implementation of organised measures aimed at reducing the availability on the illegal market and the demand for drugs, while at the same time implementing strong preventive measures and activities aimed at reducing youth's interest in drug use. In order to achieve these objectives, co-ordinated and inter-resorship action, including a wider social community, is necessary in order to achieve the fundamental principles of the national strategy. In accordance with the strategy as well as the 2005 Action Plan for the control of drug abuse, this report is based on data and reports from competent ministries and other authorities of the state administration and is the main purpose of regular monitoring of the situation in the Republic of Croatia. With the unique methodology of the report, we are able not only to determine the existing situation but to make comparisons with the same report for 2004 which was presented to this home on 2 December 2005. Formally, we are pleased to note that every year we record a faster and more quality display and the time limits of reporting are shortened. We are also pleased with the quality of the report from which all the data indicate increased work on the records and registration of all relevant data, which makes this report a good basis for the debate on the state of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. However, we also do not express satisfaction with the report’s data no matter how much it shows that some parts of the fight against drug abuse are making progress. So today we can conclude that typical reports tailored to the Croatian Institute of Public Health follow all data on people treated for drug abuse and not only from the health system but also from NGOs of the therapeutic communities are under way and agreeing to collect data from prison hospitals. By the end of 2005, 22,000 360 people were registered for drug abuse. During 2005, 6000 668 addicts were treated as an increase of 15.6%. Compared to 2004, 9.33% of new people in treatment are also registered. In particular, we must stress that the above-mentioned increase does not mean a real increase in the number of addicts, but by establishing and improving the work of the treatment centre, a greater number of newly registered addicts in the treatment are led. Also, a slightly lower rate in some of the counties shown in the report does not mean a smaller number of addicts, but it is about counties where the centres are not yet fully functioning. In addition to the treatment centre, we must stress the role and importance of the therapeutic communities, eight of them, and the therapeutic houses that provide treatment and psychosocial rehabilitation to drug addicts as NGOs. A thousand 622 addicts went through all forms of treatment in 2005, up from 9.67% in 2004. In addition to organised stationary forms of assistance to addicts of various associations of citizens, they provided some form of assistance for a total of 2 000 827 addicts. The Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the control of drug abuse and the Committee for the control of drug intoxication, together with other authorities of the State administration, implemented a number of measures in the 2005 Action Plan, which can highlight this occasion the organisation of education of educational professionals on prevention measures for the use of acquired knowledge with professional work with children and young people, parents' education on the problem of addiction and recognition of symptoms, the organisation of seminars for school prevention programmes in the system of education and a number of other preventive educational activities for children and youth, the completion of the integration of centres for out-of-patient treatment and the prevention of addictions that are integrated into county institutions for public health or established services. Clinical guidelines for the pharmacotherapy of opiate addicts were drawn up by the government of the Republic of Croatia on 3 January 2006. A programme for the education of family medicine doctors in collaboration with the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Office for Health of the City of Zagreb was developed. Voluntary, anonymous and free testing of HlV addicts and hepatitis-B and C. A drug testing protocol has been established in school children and students under the obligation to protect the rights of both students and families. Among other things, active cooperation with international institutions such as the United Nations, the Office for Drugs and Crime, the Commission for Narcotics, the Pompidu Group of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Croatia actively participates in the work of other forums, and an analysis of the degree of compliance of Croatian drug legislation with the acquis of the European Union is under way. These days the public has been informed how the aid project started... In 2004, strengthening the capacity to fight illegal trafficking and drug abuse where Germany became a partner to the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are numerous measures of activities that are trying to get in the right way to fight one of the greater monsters of modern civilization. This report presents a review of the state of abuse of intoxicating drugs and the cross-border state of drug addiction in the Republic of Croatia. According to the indicators shown, better coordination and efficiency of the system in the overall implementation of the measures, better organisation of the system of treatment of addicts, greater number of intoxicated drugs, active involvement of local administrations in the implementation of the prevention of drug abuse in their territory, more preventive and educational activities carried out in the school system throughout Croatia, have been observed during 2005. As drugs are being seized year after year in the Republic of Croatia, the number of drug addicts in the prison system and the treatment and treatment system is increasing, various prevention programmes are being implemented in all local schools, and 60 NGOs are also involved in the fight against addictions, it can be said that significant measures are being taken from different sectors to reduce demand and reduce drug supply. However, it is obvious that drugs have become more available despite these efforts, that various new drugs are emerging on the market, and that the interest in testing different drugs among young people is still not diminished. It should be pointed out that in the fight against drug addiction and the prevention of drug abuse, everyone should make a contribution. From state institutions at national and local level to family, school, NGOs and media, and that only coordinated and systematic measures can be opposed to this growing problem today. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73157	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Committee President, Honored Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73158	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 59th session of the Committee held on 29 September 2006 discussed a report on the implementation of the national strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2005 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 12 July 2006. The Committee discussed the report as a home working body in accordance with Article 75 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The participants agree that despite all measures taken to implement the national strategy programme to combat drug abuse and the action plan to combat drug abuse for 2005, there remains a visible increase in the number of addicts. Most of the discussion was dedicated to the position and role of the therapeutic communities. The report shows a decrease in the number of treated in therapeutic communities. The Committee members reiterate the need to establish the legal status of the therapeutic communities that undoubtedly play a significant role in the process of withdrawal and resociation. Since the position of the therapeutic communities remains not legally defined, a large number of these communities operate as a civil society association. Is the next thing you know about what specific communities are doing? What's their success in rehab? How are their programs, and who's running them all? With the regulation of the legal situation, it is also necessary to establish a register of therapeutic communities that the members of the Committee have warned. In further discussion, the Committee members drew attention to the need to take preventive repressive measures to curb the growing supply of intoxicating drugs as well as to prevent, establish open drug scenes or reduce the availability of intoxicating drugs. After the discussion, the members of the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, with one vote, for adoption of the following conclusion: A report is adopted in the implementation of the national strategy for the use of intoxicating drugs in the Republic of Croatia in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73159	Thank you. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HSP rep club. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73160	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Reading this report, I noticed that keeping a register of addicts or data on the epidemiological condition of addiction is untrustworthy. So it doesn't even say incorrect. In the register of persons treated for drug abuse, the law also provides for the way these data is collected. From the analysis of the data in this report, the government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse has shown that this collection of data has been done unprofessionally, or a lot of negligence. On the table, on page 7, Table 1 total number of patients treated for drug abuse in 2005 in the Republic of Croatia were 6000 668 persons. On page 18, table 11 according to the treatment method in 2005 was a total of 6 thousand 63 people. This results in our professional services for 605 people who have previously listed as a total number of addicts, patients in 2005 do not have data as directed to treatment. The same goes for the other plates. So we don't have full data on treatment of persons by gender and employment. Missing data for 178 persons, page 20, table 15. We don't have data on the apartment for 278, page 20, table 14. We have no data on the level of education for 177 persons, page 21, table 16. The same problem with the credibility of the data continues with the way it was referred to in 2005. For 455 people, we do not know how they are directed to treatment. And is now the data at the beginning of the report on the total number of drug addicts treated 6000 668 real? Because all of this is important because of the very statistics that we seem to love so much. Table 13, page 19 shows us that opiates were detected in 50.1% of cases by family members and 59.9% by neo-opiate police officers. This shows how important education and cooperation of parents are because when it is known that family members only after two to three years of addicting their children or any member of their family learn that addicts are more than this information to all of us defeating us. Also on page 7, table 1 of the number of people treated for drug abuse, of which opiate was treated in 2005 by 4000 867 people. A total of 3,000 479 were treated in Table 10 on page 18. We're talking opiate addicts as the most difficult form of addiction. So, from this, for 1388 opiates addicts, we don't have any data on how they were treated? Because they are not classified in any of the 10 types of treatment provided by addiction services. This is also important for general statistics as well as for monitoring the spending of money for those that are shown somewhere in other statistics. If we don't have any data on how to treat it, then the question is, have these 1388 addicts been treated at all? Because the professional services they treated allowed their medical records to have no data on how to treat them? Or are they privileged to be treated "incognito"? Children or members of prominent Croatian families but at the expense of all other taxpayers? The work of the Departments for Dependence in Health Services is financed by taxpayers, i.e. the funds are allocated from the state budget, the budget of the units of local administration, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the assets of the Croatian lottery. The Office for Drugs established as an exclusively coordinating body and whose main task is to report on treated persons in the health system, shall provide the Government with a report showing that 20% of the persons in the health care system have no data on how they were treated, and even if the taxpayers have paid them properly. Given the size of the problem of drug abuse addiction and distribution among young people, it is unacceptable to submit a report on the treatment of drug addicts by the government's Office for Drugs, which has been reduced to the mere unification of administrative data that you see are neither accurate. Let's move on. Among the treated addicts, there are now court problems for every fourth addict. In Table 19 on page 22, 4000 867 opiate addicts who treat addiction services for drug abuse with judicial problems are a thousand 264 people. In Table 21 on page 23, where these court problems are described, the opiate addicts have a figure of a thousand 208. Which means 56 opiate addicts have court problems, but they're not classified into any category. Maybe they don't exist either, or they're protected again, which is about 5% somewhere. In the case of neo-intoxication in Table 19, page 22, division according to age limit. We have data that 676 people who have been treated have legal problems. Table 21. On the same page where categories of court problems are described, we have 778 non-opiotic addicts listed. The question is raised for 102 people treated as unsuspecting, and they have current court problems we don't know what age they are. At the same time, the report says that young people aged 15 to 25 are represented by 85.5%. On what basis is this claimed when 102 people have no data of age? How many persons are referred to the treatment communities with a mandatory treatment measure? At least those data could be from two communities financed by the state's taxpayers' money. Publicly, it is said that in the treatment communities, drug treatment is said to be treated, and the report says that drugs are used in therapeutic communities. These two terms are important. Because we don't know how many psychiatrists and other expert personnel are employed in the therapeutic communities funded by the state community. And these are the state unions "Meet" and "My Days in Germance". Because the only measure of mandatory diagnosis treatment is conducted by a psychiatrist. This report lacks an expert staff report, as well as financial operations in these two treatment communities financed by the State. The report should also include records of professional staff working in the health care system with addicts at individual centres as well as financial operations of the same. This data would help to get as much control over money spending as possible for addiction. It is a public secret that certain public health institutions receive funds for their centres, but not to pass them on to these centres, but to spend the funds for other purposes, according to the directors themselves of the Public Health Office. The centres can't be trained, they can't function casually, because their directors are in a constant race for funding. We have cases that directors, except that they are highly educated and trained in the treatment of addicts, must write programs and report to different public tenders, advocate and negotiate with various members of the commission to grant them some funds. They lose enormous energy instead of focusing on the work and treatment of addicts. At the same time, they take away significant financial resources from NGOs. The proposal for a solution to this illogical system is the establishment of a state centre of addiction, here I mean all sorts of addictions according to the definition of a World Health Organization that should be financially independent with a single amount of money from the state budget. This centre would create all strategic policy related to addiction, prevention, treatment and abstinence, resociation and social integration of former addicts, employment, damage reduction programmes, the design of a continuous media campaign, etc. Parents and families of addicts are vitally interested in opening up a state-run addiction facility, because one who doesn't have any addicts in the house or family doesn't know what hell it is, how many vain attempts to send a child to a commune, as well as the huge costs needed by those broken families to pass the collocks to enter the commune. All of this above would be much better, more positive, simpler if the national strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia was implemented in 3 degrees. The first degree of prevention of addiction between children and young people. Second degree early detection of drug consumption. And only a third degree treatment rehabilitation resociation of addicts. By putting the greatest weight at the first stage, i.e. Prevention of addiction. My colleagues and colleagues, there's about 600 billion dollars in the world of drug profits. In Croatia between 110m and 150m euros. The Croatian government spends overall on fighting drugs of 57 million 822 thousand kuna. It's like David and Goliath fighting. In Croatia, we have 170 police officers who are trained and work in the drug department. 170 cops, equipment almost nothing. Then you really know how effective these poor cops can have. The co-operation between the police, the judiciary, customs and local self-government is not said on some level. No wonder we have 22,000 360 registered addicts in this small country. If you don't give it to God 3 to 5 by 800 to a thousand new addicts a year, then I repeat again that our prevention of addiction comes first. Otherwise, we can imagine what Croatia will look like in 20 years. And in the end, I only have three questions. If we have 52 associations of 8 therapy communities in Croatia, 32 therapy houses are interested in whom the state gives money and what are the conditions. I'm interested in the same state therapy community that's been built in Pula by the river that's spent 15 million kunas so far that haven't been completed, who's to blame for it and why so much money has been spent. And I'm curious to know who's overseeing the doctors who are conducting pharma therapy. Because in 2005, 10,000 methadone tablets were seized, and 50% of all overdoses in 2005 were methadone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73161	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected colleague said it was a public secret that the directors of the Institute of Public Health funds that they receive for the centres for prevention of addiction spend unintendedly, i.e. how will they be, and not where they are intended, for the work of the Center for Prevention of Dependence. This is not true, because the funds have just been obtained strictly by the number of really employees in the centres and every month by the 5th of the month a detailed report on the work of each centre to the addresses of all those paying for the work of the centres is submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73163	HDZ representative club, respected representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the council. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed a report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the prevention of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2005. This report has been assessed as a very good report covering the epidemiological state of addiction with a report on the activities and measures taken by the authorities of the state administration, the units of the regional and local (regional) self-government, and the association for suppressing drug abuse. What we look forward to reading this report is the fact that better coordination and efficiency of the system as a whole was observed in 2005, which is reflected in the more effective implementation of measures, better organisation of the system of treatment of addicts, a greater number of intoxicated drugs, a greater number of preventive and educational activities. Despite the increasing availability of drugs, despite the emergence of various new drugs on the market, and the interest in testing different drugs among young people still does not reduce the National Anti-Addiction System. It is clear that this is also because the policy to combat drug abuse is based on a multidisciplinary approach and includes the joint action of different sectors in the field of social protection, justice, health, internal affairs, different civil society associations. And that is the only way we can achieve the ultimate goal that we are all facing, which is to reduce demand and drug supply. What we think is necessary to point out and keep repeating, is that drug suppression and abuse are not only concerned about addicts but also about the protection of healthy generations of Croatian youth from the growing trend of drug abuse. Because this is exactly the kind of impression that appears in our public, since 90% of the time is used to discuss addictive problems and less than 10% of the primary prevention of the healthy generation of young people. This report gives us the right to hope that this segment in our society will also change, i.e. start to change and that this percentage will change. The sooner the better, because in that case our satisfaction in the fight to combat drug abuse will be even greater. Home and school are the original places where children have to, not where they should, but must get the necessary knowledge of the devastating consequences of drug consumption. The responsibility lies with both directors, educators, psychologists in the fight against addiction, because it is their moral obligation for parents to make an imperative commitment to obtain at least the most basic concepts of the dangers posed by drugs in the family and the entire community. Only investment in prevention of the generations of Croatian youth who have not yet started to consume drugs is imperative and therefore it is urgent to install the obligations of concrete programmes in connection with primary prevention and to involve the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the non-governmental sector even more strongly. Since we have been given knowledge in the materials that the legal status of the therapeutic communities is not resolved in any of the European Union countries by a special law, the proposal that we discussed during last year's debate, i.e. already last year's report, is that in the Republic of Croatia, the work of the therapeutic communities and their status is regulated through existing legal regulations. Because regardless of the statistical indicators that the number of addicts who are rehabilitating and rehabilitating in the therapeutic communities in a continuous decline compared to 2003 and 2004, we at the HDZ club still hold that the therapeutic communities are those places where complete healing success is possible. Because it is evident how the number of these therapeutic communities whose programs are recognizable and quality and which have been continuously supported over the past period by a large number of addicts and their families. One word of the therapeutic community in our opinion in the future should become part of the social health system for the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts. Because trends in the last decade in Europe have shown us that a significant number of addicts are increasingly being treated in therapeutic communities. They simply become recognized and therefore the methadone therapy is increasingly questionable in us and the world. A life-long free methadone assignment and the creation of severe methadone addiction are a major obstacle to drug withdrawal. That would be like giving free alcohol to an alcoholic. Legally prescribed such lethal drugs as methadone is very harmful, and the inhumanity of methadone therapy is evident by the mortality of methadone progenitors. The alarming 40% of methadone in the streets and the ethical question of the decision are unquestionably sufficient elements to review methadone therapy. The fight against drugs is a living matter against which new plans, new guidelines, will constantly have to be created, and we will never be fully satisfied until this evil is eradicated. It's final. The HDZ Representatives Club accepts this report, assesses it very well with the desire to see the possibilities in the next period and how to encourage the resolution of those problems I tried to point out in my debate on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73165	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73166	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting a wrong quote from a colleague who says our system is successful because it's based on a multidisciplinary approach. That should be true, but it's not true. The report says: Some holders of the implementation of the national strategy and measures of the action plan to combat the abuse of intoxicating drugs still do not have within the state budget particularly provided for in the intended purpose. Then we have in the implementation of the education budget and training of health professionals and associates in prevention of addiction, treatment, rehabilitation of drug addicts from the planned funds was spent 2.07%. So successful drug abuse really requires a multidisciplinary approach, but it's obvious that this doesn't work for us, dear fellow, and that's our tragedy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73167	Second Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73168	Thank you. Well, it's an incorrect assumption to me that methadone therapy is a great evil. Can you imagine, say hundreds, not saying thousands of people and outside of Croatia if you will, who are on methadone therapy that are left to street and petty crime, so that they actually behave and what would actually happen to the level of crime. I'm not saying these people are gonna be cured, but you have examples of where they get off methadone. So to argue that one approach to treatment, therefore methadone therapy is the great evil or the greatest evil, I think at least it's unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73169	PGS, SBH and NBS representatives' club, respected representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73170	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government. I'll be relatively brief. This long and very nice report I don't think is enough for a very ugly question that requires I think very harsh measures. Not harsh measures when it comes to users representing a large segment of our society, especially when it comes to young people, but a sharp approach when it comes to drug prevention at the source, i.e. where no emphasis has been placed in this report, where distribution is concerned, where organised crime is involved. In this report, there is absolutely no mention of the very important fact that there is an organised crime in this country that controls a good part of the policy and we need to take this into account. We must do everything to ensure that Croatia gets one serious approach at the level of police infiltration, drug distribution channels, infiltration of surveillance of arrests and at the end of the closure of those responsible for this situation. I think you can do it. I think it can be done because we have very many examples from other environments where this problem is just as dangerous as in Croatia. Let us not forget that Croatia is a very important link in the chain of international drug trafficking. It's a notorious fact, there's not much talk about it in this report either. And when it comes to the anti-crime strategy, there's not a single sentence that would put forward a minimum strategy for infiltration of organised crime. We've seen this summer from the Korčula case that there's a string in certain police stations between those who should solve the problem and those who create the problem. I think these are the real topics that are missing from this report, and what we would all have to turn to to solve this very important problem much more successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73171	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73172	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Well, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm not gonna be too long. I must say that I am very impressed with the progress made by the experts who implement this strategy, in fact, which we can witness today in the Parliament, and in fact this progress is only being looked at in the beautiful material that we have received, which is well-coordinated, which I don't know how much it costs. Since we've already got it all once, we've got it all on the Internet, I don't know how much for an example like this you could buy a syringe. I'd rather be buying 10 or 20 syringes and handing them out for free to addicts than, say, spend 10, 20 kunas, or maybe I'm wrong, how much it costs. However, I am concerned by one fact. For some 10 years, the country has been systematically monitoring and trying to fight addiction, or abuse of intoxicating drugs, as said in this political jargon as well. But we have, in particular, one tendency in recent years that our reports are getting more beautiful, that our numbers are, therefore, more and more, to say, maintaining reality, but also these figures are all devastating. Maybe it would be time for us all to imagine together whether maybe we should also consider a different approach to this whole problem. Whether the National Strategy that we have meets both the needs and demand of the times and circumstances in which we live today in Croatia and where drug abuse occurs. Maybe we should troublesome some areas. Maybe we should talk specifically about therapeutic communities. I know that these therapeutic communities are very useful and that they produce results, but as a state or as representatives of the state, i.e. the people and the state, we cannot agree to one fact, and that is that if you better analyse the situation that the state actually does have its own incompetence, i.e. the therapeutic community of the alibi service to do something. The therapeutic community must be one special story separate from what the state is doing. Maybe you should actually take a slightly different view there. Some colleagues who had talked and talked about this problem mentioned this, too, that is, stressing prevention. And I fully agree with them. However, it is obvious that those experts who run this whole story, at least in my view, pay insufficient attention to this prevention and are not professionally elaborated and do not make this prevention as much as affirmative and as much as possible. Because when you look at this report, let's say, what does the Ministry of Education do, you'll see that it's actually nothing. I don't understand why it takes us this long, 10 years to deal with this problem, and yet we're not in schools as an obligation to impose, I don't know, if it takes young people a week to educate on what drugs are, what evil drugs they're carrying, how they're actually fighting drugs. We don't do anything to train our parents to know if their child is an addict or if their child has come into contact with any drugs. Because probably all those who read and follow this problem know one tragic piece of information, which is that parents finally find out that their child has come into contact with drugs. So maybe you should consider that these figures that are worse and worse year by year require a different approach because obviously the strategy that we have set on the basis that we have is not good results. I expected as well as some of the other colleagues who put it there, the problem actually which I think is the key to the problem. And this is that according to some statistics that I think are more devastating, between 40 and 50% of young people in Croatia today come into contact with one of the drugs. They're mostly in the beginning of easy drugs, and then a small and small number of them meet with heavy drugs. So that the thesis that often happens here and here in our earlier debate on this House often appears, which is that they all, I don't know, come into contact with some kind of "joint" or hashish actually become difficult addicts. That would mean, I read, I saw the news that 30 or not I don't know how many Italian parliamentarians have been secretly tested and they're positive for the marijuana test. This would mean that in the Italian Parliament itself, you have 30 potential drug addicts. If the thesis constantly through the National Strategy, it pushes through the debates to be correct. Be careful, if true, and it is true that up to 50% of young people in Croatia are in contact with easy drugs, this means that you have 50% of young people in Croatia who are potential prisoners up to 3 years in prison. I cannot understand that no one from the committee dealing with this problem when we discussed Article 173. The Penal Code paragraph 2 did not say a word. That the overall European experience has not actually been reviewed. Why do we have any cops? It's not a little 200 cops. There are 20,000 police officers in Croatia, but 200 of them specialize in serious forms of crime, organised crime and drug trafficking. But there are few of them, because they deal with those who consume drugs, deal with addicts, deal with patients, and then they don't have time to deal with the most difficult forms of organised crime. 70% of police and state statistics on the fight against drug abuse apply to you to the owners, it applies to those children. No one really thinks that these kids need to be talked about, that they need to be taught, that they need to be educated, that they do all that to refuse to try drugs at all. No, we're treating them like criminals right away. They're not really criminals. Criminals are the ones who provide these children with drugs. It should be considered that simply this form of repressive method doesn't produce any results, it actually has a counterproduct, because while the police, the judiciary deals with consummations, so addicts, patients, so far large fish lead the story, they deal drugs, and the police don't have time to deal with them. So I have to say I was very surprised, because as far as I'm concerned, I think I'm following what the expert public in this field says, except for a few lawyers who were authors of this law, no one said this was a good measure. I'm talking about the professional public, I'm not talking about the political or the general public. In fact, we have not yet put up problems in Croatia to fight addiction, a problem that brings addiction to the right measure, or we have not put them in the right house. And since we didn't do it, then we can't even do it to actually fight, to fight addiction adequately. In fact, this whole story, the report on the implementation of the national drug abuse strategy is about how many people are being treated, how many people are hospitalized, what kind of way and in fact these are statistics, which, if you want, don't have to be exact, and they don't really have to say anything. However, certain initiatives that, in my opinion after each of these reports, should go in terms of a minimum supplement, are not available in the minimum addition of the National Strategy. There are certain treatments mentioned here. However, the professional public is also divided there. I'm agreeing that in this story you should never go or-or, but actually you should use all the methods to make these results as good as possible. I'm stressing one more thing at the end. I think prevention is the essence of things and that only by preventing things as much as possible, let me put it that way, in some acceptable frameworks. Because the fact is, I don't know if in Croatia today more than 50 or a hundred are being treated in hospitals, let's say that there are hundreds of addicts. What's he actually saying? Well, he's saying that you have here, I don't know the fact that there are several thousand of them, and that every hundred are being treated. Now, the question to me is, to what extent do the people who run the National Strategy in terms of realisation, all the ministries in charge of this story intend to consider taking a different approach. Have you considered necessarily introducing some form of education in schools related to drug abuse, to show these children drugs, to know what it looks like, to tell them that they can't take a drink, so that they can't come into contact with things that can be potentially dangerous and that can lead them and take them on the path of drugs? No, we're always more prone, we're always more prone to repression. We're going to catch everyone I don't know who has it, we're going to treat the same person who has a joint of some kind as well as the one who has half a kilo of heroin or cocaine somewhere. It's actually crazy, it's actually me running away from reality and closing my eyes from real problems. We can pump statistics, we can thus be, have a nice paper and be content with how nice it looks, but unfortunately the situation is tragic and what is particularly important, and that is that it is worse from day to day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73173	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Mirjana Brnadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73174	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct the quote of a respected colleague who said nothing we're doing to train our parents how to identify and fight this problem. That's not true, because addiction prevention services organise lectures in all schools, parents are invited to those lectures. Unfortunately, we must conclude that most parents do not attend these meetings. Many parents act like it's not their problem, they run away from reality, they think it's happening to someone else. But unfortunately it happens, it can happen to any parent. And I still have to say that in the month of the fight against addiction, when the stands are organized, it doesn't come to those stands of three parents. It is a sad and devastating fact, and that is why I am correcting this incorrect assumption, and also says a colleague, we are always prone to repression. It's not true, either, because what is now being done with the services, in the addiction prevention services that are formalized, which are in the system and which are doing really responsible and good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73175	Second correction, honourable representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73176	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would correct the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Lucin, and I would refer to exactly what my colleague Brnadić said. It's not true there's nothing in schools. There is a whole network of school coordinators with a roof co-ordinator of the county who then has their school coordinators who do very well conduct the Programme of Prevention of Dependence throughout the whole series, you will not believe, the shape of a workshop with parents and students, through lectures, so it is not true that there is nothing going on in schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73177	Third correction, honourable representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73178	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Shima Lucin. Namely, speaking of the national strategy, he was confused, the current national strategy was adopted on 2 December 2005, and this report refers to 2005. Therefore, it is not said here how and how a valid strategy is being implemented because it has only been in force since 2006. Another false allegation is that it's a bad national strategy. Not a bad national strategy. The national strategy is good, but it's a bad exercise. So that's two important differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73179	For the club of representatives of the HNS, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73180	Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. If this report gets green light today then we're going down, we're going down as officials, we're going down as people, we're going down politically, and we're going down morally. This is just another one in a series of so-called. Copy paste reports that have one single task to justify the very modest results of our national strategy, nothing else. I've been meaning to start with harsher words, but I'm going to try to give you a hint of what's going on. In fact, we at the Croatian People's Party club believe that the national strategy to combat drug abuse is a very important component of the overall demographic and then development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. As the national strategy is being implemented, counterpart Kovacevic is now talking about it and how successful it is, in fact, it is the main issue that we have to answer here today. How successful is she? Let me read two sentences from the opening part of the report for you who may not have been able to read that report. One sentence is: in the Republic of Croatia, for a thousand people, two to seven people are addicted to drugs and it can be said that we are among European countries with a medium prevalence of drug abuse, but unfortunately with a still rising trend, I am undermining the upward trend. Compared to 2004, there was a rise in the number of opiates addicts by 7.24% compared to 2005. By reading further this Report, but also many other sources that are available to all of us, we come to a series of devastating conclusions. For ten years now, the number of addicts has been growing steadily in Croatia. Unfortunately, and the number of deaths, thank God last year, and last year, that number was about the same, it didn't increase significantly. Infectious diseases, especially hepatitis among addicts, are very present. Mortality is increasingly due to an overdose with opiates. Each fifth addict by profession is a student or student, so an extremely young person. Almost every other addict belongs to a group of unemployed people, which is also very important. 70% of people treated as a cause for drug use indicate curiosity, peer influence, entertainment, boredom. I will return to this because we will see in the report how successful our educational and preventive programs are when these young people prefer to follow the footsteps and recommendations of their peers, not professionals and experts we claim to be successful. Furthermore, the number of heroin and cocaine seized has never been lower in the past few years. Look at page 61. It's the same with the customs administration. Look at a few pages behind that, and at the same time we see what's going on on the drug market that essentially the market is getting better and better supplied with these drugs. Furthermore, reported minors for the criminal offence of drug abuse, the table on page 48 has been constantly dropping since 2003. See page 44, reported, accused and convicted of individual crimes in the context of drug abuse. Less reported, less accused and less convicted, and the number of addicts is growing headlong. Furthermore, the number of people treated in the treatment communities is reduced, and we know what their role is in this case, and the report says that we can be satisfied because better coordination and efficiency of the system as a whole, and I'm asking you what would have happened if we hadn't been so effective when we had these results? So the drug market has a steep upward trend and is growing at a rate higher than any economic branch in Croatia today. It's no doubt, and we're effective, we boast of results. This report has been praised and recognised by our committees, and probably from most of this House, which is embarrassing to colleagues and colleagues, it's embarrassing. So, who wins this fight? Those who sell and resell drugs or those who fight them? They beat their colleagues first, drive all luxury cars, growing fairies, growing wealth, and clearly we speak exactly the opposite. So, the winners of those who kill our children, the winners of those who destroy our families, destroy our society, and we claim that this report is okay, that better coordination and efficiency of the entire system is very incorrect, very incorrect. I read the reports of our committees, I was amazed when I saw that the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports supported and praised the report with one single recommendation to pass the drug testing protocol to students and students, which is the only recommendation. Is that really enough? Everything else we've done? Furthermore, it might be interesting to read another sentence that I can find. Yeah. The Committee hopes that an increase of 15.6% of registered addicts is an increase of 7.24% more addicts in treatment, is not an indication of the upward trend but is higher due to a more efficient system of monitoring and records of addicts. I was ashamed when I read it, especially when I compared the numbers, so I saw that they confused even the figures. Confused those who entered the treatment and what their growth was. Look, it's not 7.24%. It is mentioned in the materials of a completely different figure, this figure refers to an increase in the number of opiates addicts, so surface work, sloppy, reckless work and we raise our hand and give the green light to such reports and such an analysis. It's just that this data that we've been working on before me and I have brought here is enough to include believe every alarm device in this country, to finally change something significant. Unfortunately, however, we see that this did not happen after last year's report and after our warnings or before last year, there is still a very weak coordination between individual levels of government. Just the report we have ahead of us doesn't give us an objective evaluation of the efficiency of individual programs. That's the key. Namely, I would like to know what are the advantages of individual programs, which are the disadvantages of other programs. Wouldn't it be logical for us today to discuss stopping feeding the system where it is ineffective and turning all the money into those programmes and towards those people and those communities and all the other elements, or participants that are effective? We don't read from this which school is better than the other, which educator is better than the other, which center is better than the other, we don't know anything comparatively that we could say, here we close the tap and here we open up and start feeding, fund the system where it's healthy, where it gives good results. This report doesn't match, it doesn't give us any information on it or anything. The rate of treated addicts to 100,000 inhabitants differs greatly from county to county. And what I've said, and I'm going to repeat here, these preventive programs have obviously affected young people in certain environments so convincingly that they prefer to go through their peers who have suggested that they try drugs, and educators, teachers, those who were in their schools have failed to convince them of this great evil. And clearly, we don't want to differentiate those two. Despite the growing number of addicts, I will read you another sentence from this report where it stands, so more effective implementation of the measures is evident, better organisation of the system of treatment of addicts, higher number of intoxicated drugs, more active involvement of local administrations, more preventive and educational activities, etc. This cannot be the conclusion of the report when we see both graphically and in the text itself that it is not so. It's not like that, it's not nearly like that. In addition, the material was done in a way that some things were unnecessarily doubled. We have the same thing displayed in table and graphics. What's that for? We have broken years, one picture shows the year 2003. - 2004, and on the second 2005. Why? It can be easily melted, displayed, easily monitored, etc. What can we do for our colleagues and colleagues? First of all, one shift should be made in the financing system itself. You've noticed that many ministries don't single out a single lip for this particular job, but they do it in the course of their regular activities, which I don't think is enough. It's not good. The abuse of intoxicating drugs in the Croatian military, in prisons and elsewhere that are in the jurisdiction of state authorities as well as numerous affairs that connect individuals from the police and the judiciary point to our indirect and even direct responsibility. We suggest that emergency consideration be given to the possibility of introducing preventive programmes in regular teaching, as is the case in Ireland, Greece, Spain. Not to leave them to individual associations, centres and individuals that are very difficult to monitor, even harder to coordinate and monitor their results. Attention should be paid by a large part to extracurricular activities and content of students. We're very, very insufficient here. We need to get these young people off the street, not just talk about it, but really do it. It's a big pain, a big flaw. It is necessary to get to know more urgently and better the European system of drug courts that do not treat addicts in a traditional way, especially when giving sentences, they have a multidisciplinary approach in treating and rehabilitating addicts and everything under the supervision of the court itself. A much better coordination of state, regional and local programmes is needed, although this report is a lot of praise on the subject, we are not convinced of that. As a doctor, I would say colleagues and colleagues, try to find one doctor who has treated one, the only addict with any medicine. He's gone. That's not how these people are treated. It's a multidisciplinary, willful, serious job, and we have to get to work, get to work, throw all our strengths at work. We at the HNS Club will not support this report, it is incomplete, a lot of irrelevant details, it does not give us a real assessment of the effectiveness of individual programmes, it does not indicate the need to change these programmes and individuals involved in it and that I repeat the finances to those who are effective and high-quality. They should be supported, the others should be thanked openly as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73181	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73182	Mr. President, my colleague said one sentence. It is not true that it is embarrassing that this report will receive the recognition of the majority in the Croatian Parliament and that it has received recognition from individual parliamentary committees. This report shows that you and any of us are certainly not satisfied that the results are not greater than they are. So on that road, it's a difficult road, and we all need to be involved in writing this report one day more results than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73183	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73184	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs! So unlike the previous years, when we considered the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse at the end of the year, it is positive that we consider the effectiveness and results of the investment of 50 million appropriations in 2005 something earlier this year. The results of the investment of the budgets must be of interest to the Croatian Parliament and certainly not by accident and not by superficial means, not only because of the funds invested but also because of the problem of addiction that exists, which destroys the person, family and ultimately society as a whole. This isn't one of the reports. This is a report that needs to show us how the system works in the fight against drug abuse but also whether the national strategy and action plan give us the desired results. The construction of the system was launched in 2001 by the adoption of the Law on the control of drug abuse. In last year's report, we read that the construction of the system is complete. Now that system should be ready and able to do its part in countering abuse. The report says, I quote, "In 2005, better coordination and efficiency of the system was observed as a whole, which is reflected in the more effective implementation of the measures, better organisation of the system of treatment of addicts, a greater number of drug confiscation, more actively involving local administrations in the implementation of the prevention of drug abuse in their territory, a greater number of preventive and educational activities carried out throughout Croatia as part of the school system.". If we were to stay, colleagues and colleagues, on this sentence we would have the right to optimism and we could say thank God we stop the cancer of modern society because it is very often called addiction. Further reading, however, negates the foundation of such optimism. After information that the system is working, that the national strategy is implemented, that measures from the action plan are being implemented, the fact that the number of addicts is growing, that the number of drug supply on the market is increasing, that some of the operators in the action plan in the budget do not have the means to secure, that we still do not have complete records, that the number of treatment communities and treatment houses is decreasing, that the number of treated and therapeutic communities is reducing compared to 2003 by 27.2% but therefore increasing the number of addressed to the therapeutic communities abroad by 51.8% compared to 2004. By 13%, the number of persons to whom the associations have provided assistance has decreased, and if the system works, if the policy has created conditions for the implementation of the national strategy and action plan proposed by the profession, at least that's what we were told, and despite all this, the emergence of the problem does not stop and let alone decrease then, of course, the question of who is wrong here, politics or waist. Something's wrong. Politics will tell us that she did her part of the job completely and responsibly. That's how the waist's gonna answer, and the problem stays. For the increase of dependence in Croatia, experts consider the most significant impact of sociological factors, of which the economic situation is firstly difficult, then the increase in crime and availability of drugs. Without improving the social status of an individual, there is no strengthening of the protection against drug abuse. It is the task of politics, and it is the policies of the ruling. No matter how hard the Government of the Republic of Croatia has tried to convince the citizens that they live better, they will not succeed because citizens know they live hard, and most of them at the limit of endurance. Unjust social separation and increasing corruption lead to hopelessness, especially the young part of the population, which is the most risky group. The sense of imperceptibility is certainly one of the most significant reasons why young refuge and oblivion try to find drugs in the world. According to data from treated addicts, 40.2% of them are unemployed or more specifically said out of 6 thousand 480, as many as 2 thousand 605 are unemployed. As many as 65.4% of treated addicts have completed high school. Thus, a high school graduate faces a problem of enrolment and knowing that it is not an important knowledge but a possibility of enrolment depends on some other factors and is commonly referred to as corruption. A graduate high school student faces inability to work, especially for an indefinite period of time. The belief is that there is no such thing as expertise and knowledge, but the existence of a relationship, a familiarity, and very often re-corruption. What's left of that high school graduate? Of course, streets, cafes, nightclubs and drugs are available at every turn. What does the state government offer that high school boy? He doesn't offer him a job, he doesn't offer him material security. So besides material poverty, he offers him spiritually poor hedonism as the ideal of modern society. The consequence is addiction as a way to hell not only an individual and his family but also a society as a whole. The addict isn't just his problem. He becomes a problem and a social community. The insecurity and instability of the family is a major influence on youth orientation. In families, there is anxiety because of the inability to provide material security to family members, insecurity of the workplace, uncertainty and lack of pay, lack of working time, lack of time for building a common society conditioned family decommissioning and instead of a place of security became a place of very often hidden intolerance. State policy does not create conditions for family stabilisation as a basic social community. With such impotence and incompetence, the state authorities are increasing demand for drugs, and along with an increase in demand, the offer is certainly increasing. Despite drug confiscation, more and more are on the market. She's just available everywhere. Access places are no secret to anyone but the police. The police have an explanation and says that the judicial authorities release drug dealers who become a threat to police officers. Looks like we're moving in a vicious circle. Last year, the number of perpetrators discovered was reduced, the number of perpetrators was reduced. And the fines imposed are too mild for the weight of the work done. Information that 56 people have been reported for the criminal offence of giving intoxicating drugs to a child or a minor, a colleague of a child or a minor, a mentally ill person, has been charged with 38, and 21 persons have been convicted for giving drugs to a child, a minor and a mentally ill person. Is there more difficult work than giving drugs to a child or a mentally ill person? Of course not. It's a picture of our repressive apparatus. The lack of policy to create conditions of prevention, poor and ineffective repression ultimately remains the treatment of addicts. There is not enough room or trained medical staff in the hospital treatment system. A long time ago, the profession points to a significant role of the therapeutic communities in the conduct of withdrawal, rehabilitation and social reintegration of addicts. It is not a system, it is not the attitude and opinion of only Croatian experts. The profession pointed to the need for the legal arrangement of the therapeutic communities. By listening to the profession and the Croatian Parliament and the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, the government has reached conclusions that the proposed legal framework for the work of the therapeutic communities. The report says that the expert council has made a bill but has been detained at the Ministry of Health with a reason that our legislation is in line with the legislation of the European Union countries, and they do not have a specific law on therapeutic communities but have legal arrangements in some other laws. And now our government decides on the worst solution and that's a legal disorder. In Croatia, the number of treatment communities decreases but therefore increases the number of addicts sent to therapeutic communities abroad. In existing treatment communities, we do not know what is happening because they have no obligation to supply the data needed for analysis, the effectiveness of such withdrawal. As hospital treatment cannot replace the treatment communities, nor can they replace hospital treatment. These are two ways to help addicts who need to complement each other, not rule out. Although the treatment communities are mostly part of religious communities or humanitarian organisations, they still directly or indirectly use budgetary resources. It is therefore necessary to regulate them legally, to lay down the conditions which must be met and the rules to be followed in their work. To whom does legal disorder suit? He's certainly not responding to the state or the addicts. With great effort and superhuman stubbornness, it has managed to fight the adoption of substitution therapy algorithms with Metadon in the Republic of Croatia. Despite all the problems observed in the application of Methadone for two years, the adoption was pending. Is it not clear today what's going on with Metadon? The fact is that it increases its availability on the drug market. We expect to find possible reasons for this phenomenon in the 2006 report. Finally, politics does not seem to be hearing the profession, although this report did not say so, and this is an important difference between the 2005 report and the 2004 report. And while we're at it, we won't know if the taxpayers' funds are being spent effectively. We don't even know what's going on in associations that are users of these funds. All this points to the need for a different structure of the drug abuse system not only to establish a centre for the creation of a single anti-abuse policy but also to be able to control, justify and efficiency of committed budgets. And finally, we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party view this report not only as information about what has been done but we view it as an indicator from which they can and must draw conclusions to perfect the system and way of doing it that would ultimately bring the desired results. But we cannot achieve these results without improving the social status of individuals and families, without removing basic causes of drug abuse, which is hopeless. The imperceptibility of the poor part of the citizens, or the desire to enjoy a materially well-standing part of the citizens. So the 2005 report is much worse than the 2004 report, but we were just thinking as well whether or not to support it? Support means to establish an existing state. Don't support it would be incorrect because something, however, points to something. And finally the same as last time. We can support the report but we cannot support the policy that creates the conditions for implementing the drug abuse system. Something must be done in this policy and ultimately we must be given who is wrong because of the poor effectiveness of the implementation and functioning of the system? Politics or waist? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73185	In 10 and 41, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73186	Thank you very much. A colleague said that unemployment and poverty are one of the essential reasons for entering hell of drugs. Well, I don't think that's true because the unemployed and the poor were 20 and 50 years ago. And the fact is that today many, many rich people do drugs, many rich people do drugs, rich young people, children of wealthy parents do drugs. I believe that effective repressive measures should be reduced to drug supply, and, inter alia, multidisciplinaryly reduce the demand for drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73187	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73188	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it looks like a similar correction. A colleague actually says that imperceptibility is the main route to drugs. And you should remind your colleague that actually the first ones who do drugs are in high schools, that they are very, very promising, that drug many estrace artists are also very, very promising. And it might be good if colleagues, if the colleague's speech was probably good if it wasn't actually a simple, pre-election political pamphlet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73189	IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73190	Mr. President, gentlemen of honor, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. If they're afraid of something, it's that their kid's gonna come under the influence of drugs. This morning, I was just watching Mr. Sakoman on TV, about seven and 15, and he said that since the generation of '73. Or '74. Don't take me by the word 4% of the young people are on heroin. Which is going to tell 40 people thousands of them. That means that war generation, I won't say lost, but 4% on heroin. There's no doubt about it, when the drugs are due, and then I guess organized crime should be maximum rigorous. I'm aware of the facts, we're counciling here, and criminals are laughing at us and doing their job. It is clear that the system also cannot rest solely in police, in courts, in prisons. But before I talk about it, I'm going to say that inside the system there are anomalies that compromise the intention of the institutions to fight drugs. Here's the Korčula case. The rose talked a lot about it. A bullpen with 80 criminal charges isn't even so much a problem with how much trouble there is in the fact that the other man, the police, was de facto protecting him. We often read that police inspectors are also involved in this work. Or that in our barracks, barracks, anyway, there's drugs like on the street. But what might be the most unlikely thing to do, for example. Our young drug inspectors can get hooked up to the Police Academy and the prisoners themselves. Prisoners in our penitentiary where no drug overdose has been reported once, as well as on the street. What's he saying? That the system doesn't work as we'd like, that the hollow, that it's defeated, that the first people in prison or the guards were bought. Because to become a drug addict in prison, that means you have to come to drugs every day. Here, just these days in Varazdin, the trial of a certain Johan Frank Florence Colmenos who is being tried for bringing the same cocaine to prison for which he was convicted. Citation Vecernji list since 6.10.2006. It's just a scary story. On the other hand, grotesque police officers do their jobs perfectly, more than correct for their 4 grand, inspectors of 6 thousand kunas risking their lives, so they work extremely professionally. Here, New List, on Saturday, October 7, 2006, says it's drug-free... A thousand 800 addicts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The voice of Istria on the same day, some Val der Haka, a pulsic host of origin from Kosovo, has already been sentenced to 4 years again on the indictment bench, etc. No one on the other hand speaks in this report on the fate of parents, family, and unhappy children. But the problem is enormous. The number of registered addicts 22 thousand 360, that's 6000 668 people treated with addiction is just the tip of the ice santa. Everyone agrees that this should be multiplied by 3, 4 maybe 5. Which means that according to the number of persons treated per 100,000 inhabitants in the first place, the County of Istria is 515 treated to 100,000. Is Istria the first problem of Croatia when it comes to drug abuse or perhaps that prevention system a little better organised? However, the Croatian average of 224 people per 100,000 inhabitants is large. Istrian from 515 to 100,000 inhabitants. or the Zadars from 465.4 people to 100,000 are even more defeated. He also rejoices that the number of convicted drug trafficking in Istria is higher than elsewhere in the country, but the problem is to watch out in a county that has fewer unemployed today than in '89. Or '90s. Absolutely problem number one in all polls. By the time I said unemployment was in fourth place. And that's why I'm calling on the organs of the repression in Istria to be even more rigorous, and parents not to be silent about what's happening to them in the family. Clearly, it's easy to say, but life is a little different. Thirdly, what I stand for is the mandatory testing of drugs on children in primary schools, in secondary schools, in colleges, in employment, even if it takes all of us throughout the working life. And let it finally, so that no one now connects us and the Italian Parliament, and those tests to the MPs, what we had last week if we had to publish, and not that this Parliament is being given any indication, so as we were otherwise taught to listen to. On the other hand, in Istria, and as you quote on page 12. there are only two centres for prevention and non-patient treatment, and only in that county are doctors of general medicine stimulated by monetary support for working with addicts, and perhaps other major engagements to learn about the real extent of the problem in their environment. Because I don't simply believe that the problem of the Primorian-Gorski County is smaller at this time than in Istria. Up to 10 years ago, this is true, Rijeka, although for Croatian occasions the great port city was almost spared by these monsters. But after they fell in the port of some large shipments, in conclusion with those 630 or 40 kilos of cocaine tied to General Andabak, the river that was guarded for peaceful transport is simply open to drug dealers and now the situation is as paradoxical as it is, but extremely critical. What's done is amazing, who discovers addicts? In 50% of the cases, opiate users in this study reveal family, into 50% of their families. Police only in 12%, friends 12.4%, themselves reporting for treatment in 15.6%, school only 0.7%, at the workplace only 0.4%. And that's why the school needs to be more actively monitored. I say mandatory drug tests. When, on the other hand, do parents find out that their child is using opiate drugs? Within one year 13.1%, after the first year 16.6%, after two to three years 34%, after 4 years 24.5%. So usually when it's late, so after three, four, five years, 60% means parents find out they have a problem. Once again, drug tests should be introduced. Why? Because 30 to 40% of children in primary school in high school, in high school, kind of comes into contact with drugs and age decreases as they say the problem is huge. This problem leads in some way under the allegations of "Nation disease", the destruction of the family, it is a huge cost for society, for family, for health care, it generates clear crime, at last from year to year is more and more deaths, so in Croatia 98. - 43, 99. - 73, 2000. - 75, 2001. - 78 dead, 2002. - 86, 2003. - 95, 2004. - 108, 2005. - 104. How it is in Istria. 88 years – 7 deaths, 99. - 6, 2000. - 3, 2001. - Even 9, 2002. - 3, 2003. - 3, 2004. - 4, 2005. - 5. So the number of deaths is under quotes as we say doctors, stable, smaller than the '90s, but I'm still talking and explaining that this is on average an opportunity in the Republic of Croatia. So you have the largest statistical number of addicts, the increasing mortality that will say that it's worth working in that area or that mortality isn't growing. Which means when we say we don't have a problem, we don't show it in the numbers in the reports, and we have an increasing mortality rate. It says that simple service is bad for us. Things problem I think is best expressed in these police surprise autotestings so let's say in Zadar County the positive 75 young were. In Primorje-goranska 77, in Bjelovarska 12, in Istria 12. So let's not fool ourselves that there's no problem. There's and there's a way to find out. So I say we test the students, test the students, for example, let's start with the MPs, from the ministers, so it's us who break through the ice, and then let's get the schools and the editorial newspapers and the HRT and the banks and the military, etc. Here in "Free" I read that the saws cost from 49 to 165 kuna under the name of some AbuGnost sold a range of cocaine, ecstasy, heroin and morphine, marijuana and hashish, anapheus, codeines, etc. Their price is 49 kuna, the MultiGnosti saws at the same time reveal the presence of five types of drugs, and one pack stands at 165 kuna, bought mostly by parents etc. etc. No matter what the title of the text was, I was simply surprised by "Test the Students on Drugs" and what the questionnaire said, as the school objected. But I'm gonna say it one more time. Schools reveal just about 0.7%, and 50% of these problems are revealed in families, but that's why I'm saying that through this testing to families, you need to help them simply learn what's happening to all of us as parents. It is especially clear that these non-profit associations dealing with this problem should be welcomed. Those who are silent, those who are willing to help, the police for the successes they received in 2006, unfortunately when it comes to heroin, were not so successful in 2005 which led to this year and we see somewhere there in the 6th, 7th month and in the Albanian underworld or with the Albanian underworld here in Zagreb, etc. Otherwise, as far as we're concerned, let's do heroin in 2002. - 36.9 kilos, 2003. - 85.7 kilograms, 2004. — 114,4, 2005. - 27.7 kilograms of cocaine discovered in 2002 was 3.2 kilograms, 2003, which is when that big shipment fell in Istria, Rovinj, 350.7 kg, 2004. - 17.5 kilograms, 2005. – 8.9 kilograms etc. It means more and more addicts, but not more and more seized drugs. A growing problem, and less and less drugs are being discovered by the police. More and more premature deaths, but the drugs are still unhindered. More and more addicts, more and more available drugs, means something just doesn't work out. So let's not just stick our heads in the sand and comfort ourselves that others are worse. This must be one of the biggest Croatian problems. Do you know what money is in play in this drug business that triggers other forms of organized crime? Something Mrs. Ruza Tomasic said about it, it's about a billion to a billion and a half, maybe two billion kuna. It means 0.5 to 1% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. This money is being washed mainly through construction, urban villas, Istrian, Dalmatian swimming pool houses are being built today, while up until 5.6 years ago this money mainly ended in catering, i.e. personal consumption, etc. which will say that our problem today is much greater because crime is now more mature, more sophisticated, more entrepreneurial, more intelligent, entering a higher sphere of the market game which then amnesties especially those at the top of that pyramid. Those who are clearly violent, drug dealers, are being shut down, but these are simply exempt. Narcotics first discovered the eastern market, with them absolutely working well. They probably didn't mind nationality, business is business, money is money, unfortunately there's too much blood and ruined fate in that money to tolerate it. And so many stories about the legalisation of easy drugs in Croatia, and we all know that through easy drugs it is simply unacceptable. Such an approach is harmful, and understandablely one joint will not be punished as one gram of heroin. But the emphasis in the law is on the one who deals the marijuana, not the one who uses it. And you should also say not legalizing easy drugs and there we must be unique, not bid with one or two votes, and especially not tolerate parades where from hanging individuals into cameras smoke or smoke that marijuana as if it were nothing. To all who work clearly on this matter thank you very much, but I think in the discovery we're still thin. And for the end of two sentences. Istria has treated 732 addicts, 11% of 6,668. Split-Dalmatia 820, 12.5%. That's 20.4 million kuna. Istria gets 2% of that money, 569 means 11%, and Split, let's say, a million and 900 or 10% of the money, and so simply at all. It's just not fair. And Mr. Banac says that organized crime controls a good part of politics. I think it's a brave constitution. A part of politicians may be close to individuals from this organised crime, but I think it is still when Croatia comes after 2000 is not the case. Politics is responsible for what we have, but I would still disagree that a good deal of politicians is controlled by organised crime. Maybe in America, here I doubt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73191	Corrections to incorrect allegations, the honourable representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73192	Thank you, Mr. President. Since several times there have been speeches about how drug tests should be introduced into schools, or it was said to test students, let's make schools do that, I suppose that was figuratively said, but there's no legal basis for that. And it's incorrect that we can force schools to conduct tests on underage children without parental consent. That is incorrect, and I believe that this can possibly be said of voluntary testing in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73193	The second correction, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73194	It is incorrect that a colleague claimed that we are thin in revealing the pleasure. In fact, nowhere is the discovery bigger than the discovery because it's almost public. Despite these dragon penalties that have been reserved for them. We're thin enough to find drug suppliers, manufacturers, drug lords who are our so-called drug lords. Reputable citizens, who, you've well established, are part of organized crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73195	For the SDSS club, the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73196	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me a few words about this report. First, it shows, of course, that the problem of drugs is one of the serious problems of Croatian society in the last 15 years. Maybe something a little smaller or something a little less visible and something more controlled than it was five years ago, but still equally large, equally dangerous, equally worrying. If you look at what is the area of the Republic of Croatia, which are the environments in the Republic of Croatia that suffer the most, where there are the most affected by this type of epidemic, when it comes to Croatia, then you can see that these are the counties that are the most difficult in times of war and within which we are still struggling to establish something that we could say the full rule of law. The number of addicts in Zadar County, the number of addicts in Sibenik-Knin County, is actually very large. An alarmingly large one. And for that reason, it seems to me that, apart from these elements that are presented here in the report and that show, perhaps not entirely, but show some picture and some state of affairs when it comes to illegal trafficking and drug consumption, but at the same time there are no elements that we should have. There are no sociological parameters, there are no parameters that talk about the elements of the rule of law, the presence of the state, the way the state works, the scope of the state's activities. Those parameters, unfortunately, are gone. And that's why it seems to me that not only in the team that deals with this, whenever it comes to the office, whenever it comes to certain ministries and the number of people and their professional skills should be different than they've been before. What are the values of young people, these high school kids who, for example, They represent the largest, largest group within the drug users. We don't know that. And it would be useful to know. It would be useful to know, and then we could talk to schools after that. Before that, it's hard to do. Before that, we can tell about teachers, you know it's not good, and you should do everything you can to make sure that such things don't happen in schools or that children leave school with a healthier attitude than that. But how will teachers say that if teachers don't know? In elementary school, in high school, what are the dominant values that children follow and that prevent them from seeing whether drugs are really something that is good or not? So these things would be good for us to take care of and have some kind of picture. Because without that picture, I find it illustrious to call schools to account. You can call schools as space, but schools as institutions hard. Schools as an institution in terms of education, in terms of education, in terms of expanding a set of values. The other thing you'd like to say about this is the question of course and the values that we generally have in society. To what extent do we actually promote some kind of policy unreal? I'm not going to say virtual, it's another kind of term, but in what sense we're actually in the political sphere not responsible for what's going to happen with policy ties and organised crime because these things are going relatively well. But to what extent do we actually produce a kind of unrealistic image of the world? And we don't help young people face something that can be realistic in our society? And if it is necessary to seek some kind of political responsibility in this regard or politics in this regard not only in the last 2, 3 or 5 years but much more then it is a question to what extent we, and in particular the media, in particular some media institutions are actually creating a completely unrealistic picture of the world. In which further encouragement or inciting unrealistic perception of the world is actually welcome. And there's our condition somewhere. My esteemed colleague Cain says we should be tested here, not because one of us could really be positive in that regard. No, I don't. I don't believe in that possibility at all, even individually. But on one thing, we certainly need to be tested. And that's how much we're still on the back of what's called an unreal production of a picture of a world that hasn't created an opportunity for people to face anything that represents real life. And those who, say here in this report, are saying that it's a talk of peers. It's not just a talk of a peer. It is an address of the atmosphere, it is an address of a kind of atmosphere that is created both in the media and in other circumstances and, of course, encouraged by those who create their distribution network of easy profit, rapid pleasure, easy to deal with problems or quickly avoid problems. These are all dimensions that deserve that our institutions that do not necessarily have to be in the office or in certain ministries, but may be within individual institutes, sociological, psychological or any other institution that should receive projects and programmes and money so that they can explore it so that we really know the real dimension of it. So that we don't call from here that all the students from primary school to high school, all the handbooks, all the potential employees, you can think how many there are, we have a problem with unemployment and the largest number of those who are consumers are actually unemployed, that all of them are tested for drugs. Well, that's not the way. That's not how we can prevent anything. What these young people expect from us is to form a serious state in which they will trust. Never in the Zadar hinterland for 15 or 20 kilometers, alone from that area of origin, there was no drugs in villages around Zadar. In the last 15 years, yes. How? By which institution? Well, the dealer didn't come to the village, so he brought that story. They don't go that far, most likely. But there are certain institutions where young people have been involved or are now involved, there are some social networks through which institutions move, through which they move, which have given them the opportunity. Is that an army? Is that a school? Is that socializing? That should be seriously investigated. It's not easy to appeal to the so-called. sanction measures like testing everyone and everyone. In this regard, allow me a word of encouragement regarding what the elements of the rule of law and the repressive apparatus in the country should do in this regard. First of course, it's a strong internal control. Strong internal control at both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defense. And it, of course, can avoid those segments of the Ministry of Justice, where it is about the maintenance of penalties so that, in the right sense, these important institutions of the state can be places that can be used as a means of protection or for promoting illegal drug trafficking and the spread of drugs. The other thing that seems particularly important to me is, of course, our environment, closer and further. And activities in that direction and in that respect. And this morning I received news that a young man on the border with Germany and the Netherlands was driving another man's truck, our citizen, was detained because drugs were found in the truck. It's very likely that truck has crossed our area as well. Unsettled or inadequate countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as the Kosovo area, such as the Macedonian area, general instability in this part of our close neighborhood, absolutely favour that both our area and our area of trade, illegal drug trafficking and narcotics can continue. Our unsettled relations with countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina are also good for it. I, too, would like to appeal to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice to develop as much cooperation as possible in this regard. And with international organisations that are present in this regard, and at the same time with the countries that are our neighbours, and of course our policy to bring these relations with these countries into such a state of relations that these relations cannot be a means of facilitating total illegal trade and trafficking, and then, in particular, illegal trafficking and drug trafficking. There's a lady and gentlemen on behalf of the SDSS club we can't say that we haven't seen anything from this, that we haven't seen the facts, that we haven't seen the effort, but at the same time the facts are devastating and that the effort has to be different and more and more structured and otherwise planned, which you'll probably agree with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73197	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73198	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption, an esteemed colleague said that drug testing is a sanction. Drug testing is not a sanction but a part of the prevention, so if we parliamentarians were to submit to it, the government, the President's Office and all those involved in this programme, in the fight against drugs, would then prove their credibility, in contrast to the case in the Italian parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73199	We're going to individual debates. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73200	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we discuss problems, we can't help but wonder what we've done so far to combat drug abuse, and is what we've done enough to prevent the spread of this unloved monster of modern society? The answer to that question certainly gives us this report ahead of us. If we count everything that's been done, then we can conclude it's done a lot. We have passed the Law on the control of drug abuse, we have adopted the National Strategy, the Government has adopted an action programme, measures have been prescribed to combat drug abuse, commissions have been formed to combat drug abuse, an office has been formed, then the professional advice of the office, tasks and prescribed competences have been shared. So it has been done a lot, but also on the basis of this report, we can unfortunately conclude that we are not ultimately getting what we might expect in view of all of this, because, as the report notes, the abuse of intoxicated drugs is, in particular, increasing everywhere in the world and in Europe, so that Croatia is not isolated and it is further established that Croatia is among the European countries with medium prevalence of drug abuse, but unfortunately with a still rising trend. We do not need to be comforted by following the trends of developed countries of Europe and the world, I think it would be much more expensive and better for all of Croatia and its citizens that we can boast that we are shoulder to shoulder with developed countries of Europe on some other issues such as. the development of the economy or the standard of citizens. The fact is that many entities in the Republic of Croatia are dealing with the problem of addiction and the prevention of drug abuse from government institutions to NGOs, civil associations of citizens, parents, trying to secure money both in the state budget and in local budgets, and the result is not what they would like. It is unquestionable that this issue requires the coordination of all bodies involved in the fight against addiction and all levels of state authorities with particular emphasis on the role of the local community in the implementation and implementation of activities to combat drug abuse as well as on the role and contribution of NGOs. It is precisely because many entities are involved in resolving the problem of addiction that are very important to connect and cooperate with each other, and when good coordination is achieved for all subjects dealing with the problem of drug abuse, I am sure that with less money, they could achieve a much better result. The report shows that certain shifts have been made for the unification and interconnection of all entities involved in solving this problem, but this is still not enough. It is necessary to strengthen activities in order to obtain a uniform and well-connected network of subjects dealing with addiction problems in all counties. Despite all the efforts and measures taken, drugs have become more available, different drugs appear on the market, and the interest in testing and experimenting with different drugs among young people is not reduced. Prevention is certainly the best drug medicine, i.e. for young people to act so that they are not tempted to experiment with drugs at all. This involves, above all, proper education from kindergarten to primary and secondary school. It is necessary to develop programs that will create free time for young people and motivate them to choose healthy lifestyles, strengthen their self - respect and confidence in making the right decisions, and that they can, of course, resist different environmental pressures. All this requires a sufficient number of professional and educated personnel. As a result, it is unacceptable for situations to take place, as the report said in the Zadar County case, that the County Commission for the control of drug abuse tried to establish better co-operation with primary and secondary school directors, but the response was small and showed insufficient interest in the director. Such situations simply must not be tolerated. The treatment communities play a significant role in the care of addicts, not only in the area of rehabilitation and withdrawal from addiction but also in the area of resociation of former addicts, but also in the area of preventive work in the community with the aim of sensitizing the public for the problem of addiction. The problem is the undefined legal status of the therapeutic communities, making it difficult to monitor the number of addicts in the treatment of the therapeutic communities as well as the evaluation of their work and the evaluation of the effectiveness of the programme. That is why, and we are aware of this problem in the Parliament at the 17th session held on 2 December 2005, we have concluded that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to draw up a proposal for a Law on Therapy Communities within 60 days. This would regulate their legal status as a form of professional work and provision of services, accommodation, nutrition, education, rehabilitation and psychosocial assistance to addicts, and would, of course, ensure the ability to control their work and implement the programmes. In one word, the adoption of this Law on Therapeutic Communities is a prerequisite for the integration of therapeutic communities into the entire system on a legal basis, and this will also enable the creation of a network of therapeutic communities. The whole story of the draft Law on Therapy Communities as shown in this report shows in the best way how the decisions and conclusions of the Assembly as well as the deadlines set in practice are not respected. Thus, it is stated that the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and the Expert advice of the Office in cooperation with other experts and NGOs dealing with the problem of addiction, in particular the rehabilitation of drug addicts, developed the Proposal for a Law on Therapeutic Communities, which addressed the Ministry of Health and Social Care with an application to be included in the adoption procedure. The working group appointed by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare with the task of analysing whether any of the countries in Europe, in the European Union, has such a law found that in no European Union legal status is regulated in the form of a specific and uniform legal regulation, but that area is regulated within several different legal regulations and health and social and other areas. And then the report concludes that, in accordance with the European acquis, it will consider the possibility for the status of the therapeutic communities and in the Republic of Croatia to be resolved by amending and supplementing the existing legislation in the area relating to the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts and the adoption of sublaws. Let us remind ourselves once again that on 2 December 2005, the Council tasked the Government to draw up a proposal for a Law on Therapy Communities within 60 days, so the deadline was by the end of February of this year, now October, the law is not yet in sight, and moreover, the possibility of the status of the therapeutic communities being resolved through changes and addition of existing legislation. I think it speaks best of the effectiveness of this government. Methadone is often used to treat opiate addiction. According to the report, in as many as 67% of the cases, methadone is used as a treatment agent. However, also on the basis of data provided by the relevant authorities, it is evident that methadone abuse occurs very often. Over the past few years, methadone has increased significantly and more deaths have been caused by methadone overdose. In 2005, as many as 20 deaths caused by methadone abuse were reported. That's how it is, for example. in Makarska, according to official data in the last 6 years, methadone consumption has increased by as much as 250% despite the fact that the number of registered methadone-treated addicts has not changed significantly during that period. Therefore, the conclusion that based on these data clearly states that the increase in heptanone prescriptions can also mean dealing. It is clear to all of us that methadone therapy only makes sense if there is expert supervision. This is why professional circles dealing with this problem are increasingly warning that the lack of heptanonic therapy in Croatia is precisely because the treatment is reduced to the mere issue of tablets. That's how we actually create new addicts. In order to prevent further abuse, the government adopted guidelines for the pharmacotherapy of opiate methadone addicts in January 2006. What effect the guidelines will be adopted will likely be seen in a report that will be presented for 2006 but if it is concluded according to the official data that I received in Makarska by 30.8 this year, 1425 boxes of heptanone were issued and 1835 boxes were issued throughout 2005. And I would remind you that the above guidelines were adopted in January 2006. And finally, given the time to conclude, I think, in fact, that we all have to imagine well above this report, and that it's high time to make a thorough review of the whole system to see where we're wrong, where they're failing because it's obviously not good and it's clear that this system doesn't work the best way we want it to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73201	Thank you. Several replicas, the first respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73202	Well, you've made good colleagues claim that drug use is on the rise, that drugs are increasingly available and you're asking the basic question that clearly somewhere there is a problem that needs to be solved differently. Sure. The government does not address the problem of where drugs come from in Croatia. She hit on those who were victims of drugs, on those small-time fans and now they become a dangerous drug dealer, and because one user when he adds one to another, he's a dangerous drug dealer, three years minimum prison. 75% of our courts deal exclusively with this mildest, most banignant form of drug abuse and remain drug lords, drug dealers, narcotics, which is part of organized crime that this government no longer mentions, as if the problem no longer exists at all, so now it's not even mentioned, they remain out of reach and police and justice. Because things are upside down. Instead of focusing on the basic problem of drugs coming to Croatia? You've never heard that from the government, but now the question is, are we gonna test the students for drugs? Oh, that's peripheral stuff, please. It's like you're putting out a fire with some kind of bucket of water. The causes are that the government is finally wondering, how does drugs come to Croatia? Who's bringing it? And that the repressive apparatus is concentrated on this and these kids, this mole who are the victims of these drug dealers and drug addicts, to use them as witnesses. For them, liability and treatment measures are enough, as we had previously imagined, but this government is clearly not responding. Therefore, the efficiency of the authorities must not manifest against these victims, which I say should be treated and used as useful witnesses to get to those true pyramids, or those at the top of that chain. It's the right step and the right way to start solving this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73203	Replicate response, respected representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73204	Well, fellow Members, I think you've actually identified one of the key problems in this whole story, because drugs, unfortunately, also work on the principle of the market or on the principle of supply and demand. The bigger the offer, the more the demand is for sure, and the more we see from this report, unfortunately, the availability of drugs in the Republic of Croatia is increasing year by year. So, obviously something is wrong somewhere, and when I said that we should really thoroughly analyze the whole system and see what kind of link it really is that doesn't, or just doesn't work. I think that there is one of the key problems just to curb the flow of drugs to the Croatian market and unfortunately I agree with you when we find that we are closing up with those small, small, mostly drug users or small drug dealers and our drug lords are still walking free, it is one of the reasons why, as some colleagues used to say is seized does not grow from year to year but the number of addicts is growing more and more and until the system is affected by those key problems or as we call them big fish, so there will be no good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73205	Another replica, Honored Representative Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73206	Well, it would refer to this often mentioned school. I think we need to avoid that trap, possibly which we could all fall into together, to throw the blame on such a powerless link in the repression of drug abuse in Croatia, such as schools, the school system. What's revealed there is 0.50, and I don't know how many percent of everything you shouldn't expect, so they're not a repressive element or I don't know what element in this society. They're the most innocent here, not even their primary task. The fact is, it seems to me that we may be wrong in methodological approach in general. I don't think it's enough to say no to drugs, not drug addicts, that it's necessary to say that to life. So we have this affirmative relationship that we don't need to replace it with this yes. What are the positive values? In this sense, school can play an important role, building a value system, not catching, detecting, etc., children who eventually came into contact. That's what someone else should do. The basic question and the question of all the questions is why does someone need to take drugs or have a need for escapism, to escape from reality that is unbearable to them because of something? If we answer that question, we will only be able to answer these other questions. We need to resolve the question why a young man who is most interested in us, who has not yet become a junkie, may eventually come into a group that needs to take any means to bring him out of reality. That means we have to change reality in some way. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73207	Reply to the replica honoured representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73208	Well, school is actually just one element in this whole chain that we're talking about. Surely the family in the general construction of the young man is the first step and has a key role for me. The school is the element that continues to participate in this upgrade and that should actually be developed in young people in some way a positive approach, even positive values, and when we talk about schools I am sure that in the vast majority of schools we have very good teams and people who are in some way dealing with the education of students on the subject, it is now another problem that I think the representatives of the authorities are also aware that we are missing and that we have an insufficient number of professionally educated people who might be able to deal with this problem in the right way and that there should be additional efforts. And yet another story is and it's a big problem in the lack of parental interest because parents think it's a problem that happens to someone else or possibly my neighbor or friend, but it can't happen to me and then we go by principle... And that's just like at parenting meetings, we know everyone who's been through primary and high school that parents have always come to parents' meetings that weren't troublesome and the other ones who were actually supposed to be the most invited didn't come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the same story about this. So I didn't say there was a problem in schools at all, I think that schools do most of their work well here but it's simple in the whole system it's actually just one link in the chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73209	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73210	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in her presentation that I am assessing very well, the colleague said that good coordination of the holders of certain measures under the action programme and national strategies will lead to a better system or efficiency of the system. Dear colleague, that's not enough. We have a coordinator and the coordinator of all of this is the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. However, it can coordinate, determine that individual operators have not, have not even provided budget resources and it will establish it, it will inform us in the report. However, he is powerless. It will conclude that the budget's projected resources are not being placed, not used and its competence ends there. And we in the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy have therefore recognised this problem as a parent committee for this problem, and we have said that it must be a unique place and create a policy to combat drug abuse, even if you want one place of availability, so one place to control the effectiveness of the implementation of certain programmes, and we have reached a conclusion that requires the government to transform the existing Office for the control of drug abuse into a central state office with greater powers. The government, however, is certainly deaf. Just as it cites the radical reasons for the lack of a legal framework for the therapeutic communities and the profession is unique in assessing that the therapeutic communities and in the future and now play a significant role both in the withdrawal and resociation of addicts. So with such a policy, I do not see a profession that will successfully deal with this problem because politics does not provide conditions for a successful fight against drug abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73211	Reply to the replica honoured representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73212	I'll answer that very briefly. I agree with everything you've said, and I'm only going to figure this out. The fact is, as I said in my debate, that in fact, in the Republic of Croatia there are a lot of subjects and it seems to me from year to year that this is more and more spreading, a lot of subjects are dealing with the problem of addiction and I feel like everyone in some yard who actually has one whole, and as long as we don't get to the right and connected wholeness where in some way certain jobs and individual actions don't match, but where we know exactly where everyone has their own place and when we have one regulated system, I think the result will be much better and with much less spent resources because it's clear to all of us that much separates from the state budget and local budgets separates large resources to fight the problem of addiction but the result is not good. And so once again, we should just put a new one on the ball and see where we're wrong and what kind of failures we're doing and sort of do a system review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73213	Dear Representative Ivan Jurkin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73214	Dear President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I have carefully read this report on the National Strategy in the fight against drug abuse, and I must say that I appreciate it that a lot of effort has been made. However, I will bring you into the world of drugs with one true story. In fact, when I came here to the Parliament, then I saw enough English to be in Mark's square, and we expect that by evening there will be about 4 thousand of them, though not in the square, but in the stadium. And then I remembered to connect drugs and England. So I'm telling you, so I'm going to tell you a story that my colleague told me when I was in the United States and I read that in my home literature. Namely, Winston Churchill was a guest lecturer at Cambridge University. And the dean took him in, brought him into the classroom, and then announced him with the following words, "Listen carefully to what one of the best speakers in the world will say to you. His words can change your life.". Churchill slowly, Mr. President had something to do with the drugs, came up with a pay phone, looked at the students, hung up the cigar before, and then sent them only one sentence. Afterward, he moved away from the pay phone, slowly and quietly exiting the hall. The students remained consterned, some whistled, some were disappointed with the speech, and one part left the hall with dignity. Only later did they understand the value of Churchill's words. And what did he tell them? He said to them, "Never, ever, ever give up." That's the way it is with drugs. When, when you have one addict, you can never give up. I've treated drug addicts in my life, and that's not where success comes overnight. It is worth that saying to you: "In troubles you know heroes." It is such a difficult area of action that even here and that aphorism is worth to you: "If you don't think about the future you probably won't have a future." So that's why you don't usually have it, you don't have addicts who are over 35 years old because they take their golden shot and then they're gone. And really if you don't give the addict a hand, and in this report we've obviously given the addicts our hand and we want to help them, we're in this report, I see we've rejected the mirror. We've taken a long-range view and we're looking at what's going to happen next? And that's what I'm particularly happy about in this report. But I have to tell you from experience, I have to tell you that at the beginning of the treatment of alcoholics, and also in all these shops, we have to be very careful because if you are not careful, then you can't solve any problems in the end. And respected colleagues and colleagues may have let you down with this story, but... But the drug problem we'll be dealing with for years. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, neither did Rome for a year either. The main thing is that we got into a drug problem because drugs are the concept of fear. It's still something unknown that destroys the spirit and the body. If we also take that addiction and scientificly defined as a chronic relapse, then we realize that we are likely to fight this disease for a long time and success is often unpredictable. In the report, you saw the number of addicts growing. How could you not grow up? I'll only give you one example. If you take it, if you take heroin 4 to 5 times a month, you're gone. And if that's what you're already talking about, I already mentioned it somewhere. And if you're being treated, if you're taking alcohol for years, the chances of becoming an alcoholic are only 5% to 8%. And if you take heroin 4 to 5 times a month, the chance of becoming an addict is 98%. And how come you don't grow the number of addicts? Of course he's a scary asset. But it is also fortunate that there is no clean market but is coming, the market is being diluted. But I'm only going to give you one piece of research. It was taken, taken by children in elementary school and children in first grade high school. And it's obvious that 24%, 24% of boys and 17% of girls take drugs. He's taking marijuana. Why did I say that? Because some say marijuana creates even greater spiritual and moral degradation than other drugs. I still don't look at you all that black. And when I come to my home of health, then I no longer see my children sitting on a bench bending green marijuana leaves. I really have to thank the police here in Big Gorica for being in places where drug dealers are gathering, and these are disco clubs both in front of kindergartens and in front of schools. I've also contacted the county centers. I must commend you that these county centers, that they are doing excellent work and my county is somewhere in the middle of a table with 107.5 addicts on 100,000 inhabitants and I think that there, so relatively we can be satisfied. I often pass you by a retro center. They're friends of hope. And I see young boys there repairing furniture and helping neighbors, and I think that's an example of the resociation of treated addicts. And from their ranks they often recruit those who go abroad for treatment so that it is obvious that of those 367 who go, they go abroad from those 1521 who are registered in the therapeutic community that it is very good. But where I'm at home, that's your Red Cross company. Here's Mr. Kovacevic even following my work at the Red Cross so he saw that I was there... And I have to tell you that here, I'm also telling Mr. Lucino that in this, we have recognized the value of education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that we took our parents as partners in drug treatment. We actually start thinking that way then we'll start talking about social and personal responsibilities and where would that lead us? But I am satisfied in this strategy because I am thinking the following way. She says, "Let's cut the availability of drugs." Second, we go on personal responsibility and as third parents. And to finish, here's the red one, it's not red yet. And let me finish. It's been 200 years since Professor Friedrich Sertinger discovered morphine in the silence of his lab. It's the scariest drug the world has ever seen. After that, your drugs were prescribed, so easily prescribed drugs. And when it came out of the war in 1866 came out of the war in the U.S., then there were 50,000 soldiers who were drug addicts. So we've been fighting drugs for 200 years. I hope that, I think this is going to make our fight more successful. And that's why I accept this report and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73215	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73216	My colleague, I think Churchill made a deep mistake. You should have given up on this defense report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73217	Second Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73218	Thank you very much. Well, in the first part of his presentation, an esteemed colleague said that we're just starting to deal with this problem, so he said drugs are new to us. And at the end of his presentation, he said that the fight against addiction has been going on for 200 years. I mean, neither drugs are unknown, nor are they new. Today, the world knows everything about drugs. Although they have different approaches to treatment, they have different approaches to prevention. You mentioned some problem about how much alcohol or, say, heroin should be taken for a long time to become addictive. But while the world is dealing with new synthetic drugs that, of which you become addicted once or twice when you take them, we're talking about marijuana here. So the question is results. This report may be like paper...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73219	My colleague Lucin, the correcting of the incorrect quote you reported, and this isn't, has nothing to do with correcting the incorrect quote. Just like your colleague Doric, don't go on to something that has nothing to do with correcting an incorrect quote. Let's go to the replicas. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, you say you're satisfied with the national strategy, because we're dealing with drugs. Unfortunately, we didn't get involved because it's you, because there's nothing here at all about prevention, there's just here, it's you, it's you. like when children play in the sand and around children a lot of glass. And we'll prepare the bandages and prepare some towels so that after the kids get hurt to get that glass out of their wounds, we'll show how good parents we are. So let's move that glass and then the kids won't get hurt. And as for the seriousness we've taken into account. So in Croatia, drugs are spent between 120m and 150m euros. To combat drug abuse we spend everything together around 58 million kunas, it's all expensive in all of Croatia. We have 177 trained officers. What kind of bone? Who did we hook up with? Well, this is a game of what drug dealers have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73221	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73222	Well, I agree with my colleague at all. So look at the other you, the second you have to understand that the one who's an addict is he's lost his ability to give. He's just an interesting reception ability. And now there's our big problem. We have to, it has to be the school and the police and the company and customs that get into that problem. And I agree with you that's a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73223	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73224	Thank you very much. Well, I have to say, I'm glad you made your city step into education. However, that is what I was saying on behalf of the club, the problem is that from the level of the ministry must come a whole programme that will not be developed and implemented in schools. But when we talk about prevention and education, how are you going to explain to some kid that when you teach him what drugs are that he can't use them? But how are you going to explain to me that in case he gets in touch with, say, marijuana can end up in jail for up to 3 years if the judge and the state's attorney had a fight with his wife that night? Same as some kind of person, some kind of drug dealer who finds 50 grams or 100 grams or half a kilo, doesn't matter, heroin. Then there's a problem with the system and how to actually educate someone the wrong way. Or how you'll explain to a young man that if he has a gun at home, if he illegally owns a gun to pass with a few hundred or thousand kunas of criminal punishment and that he won't be in criminal records. But if he finds himself with one ectasy or one joint, he can get up to three years in prison. We need to build a system. We can't just view education as education or repression just as repression. It has to become the whole system. We don't have a whole system, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73225	Next replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73226	Comrade Jurkin, you mentioned, you actually made one parallel between alcoholism and drug abuse. It's kind of a slippery terrain, I think, because at least it always seemed to me that the state, I don't mean the Croatian state, but the state generally has a rather hypocritical relationship to watch the forms of addiction that ranks them differently, selects them etc. Because it's really a question, maybe we shouldn't talk about it today, but it's a question of what's almost a bigger tragedy and what's more widespread and what's the consequences of society, I mean the number of people who are addicted to alcohol, and so on in car accidents how many people have killed those who have been influenced by alcohol and how much drugs, etc. I think that the state and the system should be somewhat more balanced. The same applies to tobacco and other types of addiction, if we care about human health rather than just profit. Often these addictions are about profit. State of big taxes, etc. and alcohol and tobacco, etc. He's doing some good. There's no use in drug abuse, but there are some people who benefit. The biggest tragedy is if they're tied to the state. It's the biggest tragedy. Then we're talking crime-organized crime, etc. And I think there's an area we should be interested in. Because if the system doesn't work then we've got some phenomena that we can already see that individuals take, in quotes, "justice into their own hands", so the parents of the junkies are looking for drug dealers, killing them and punishing them, and what I know what they're doing. It seems to me that there's one area where we need to talk about how to organize this monster.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73227	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73228	My colleague Jurjevic, I'm glad you're like this, you've been very soft in the debate. I confess everything to what you said. I have to tell you next. You probably heard that Colombian drug lord Paulo Escobar. When he was arrested, he offered to be released from prison to pay off the entire state debt of $19 billion from Colombia. Then you can imagine what money is spinning in drugs. And you have to admit that this young country of ours is doing a lot of work to do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73229	The next replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, dear colleague, our debate today on this report aims to find the right pathways, i.e. we see from the report and the basic message that you well and yourself have seen at the end, to reduce the availability of drugs. So this is how it's gonna be, nobody's gonna be impressed, or much of it's used by this whole problem that we're talking about here when some synthetic drug on the way is synthesized, about the history of drugs. You know why? First of all, because a man of the original community was discovered that he even drugged himself with some plants, but above all, and because below the average drug user almost everything he knew about drugs. When they bring out their defenses, they probably want the court to fascinate, so they're interpreting what he needed to get up, what to fall again later on, etc. etc. But I repeat, the basic problem is this one. That's what we need to talk about. How to reduce the availability of drugs. Everything the government is doing is doing wrong right now. The dragons' sentences against these victims that you face, which the police brought in front of you or in the hallway in the waiting room, weeds. So the dragon measures aren't helping, so you see that well from the report not only this, but also the State's Attorney's Office's reports. Since the crime of drug abuse, drug abuse, drug possession, or this petty drug dealing, has been escalating since then, which means that the methods and measures are completely wrong, that we haven't hit the right thing, that we have to say we have to deal with reducing the availability of drugs. Drugs are at every turn, drugs are cheap. Drugs have flooded the prisons. The prisons have become full of these petty drug dealers, and we can think about what they're going to do now that the minimum changes to the law you've done, where the minimum sentence is 3 years in prison, and in prisons they're also going to resell drugs. Still, something is a little more expensive than it is on the loose.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73231	So the guy was using drugs, too? ... Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Jurkin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73232	Dear colleagues, I'm glad that you followed my presentation, because you noticed that as a second level of fight against drugs, the first level is to reduce the availability of drugs, the second level was to work on that, at personality level, to work on self-respect, and the third is family. I have to tell you why I was right in the report. I'm also worried about my nation. Why am I worried? Because a 90% addict has a better chance of dying of his peer in his young age. ... Yes, and that's why I'm worried, and that's why I'm glad you took part in this debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73233	Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73234	Your Honor, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I have listened carefully to your debate and other debates about this enormous drug-related evil. The world's first amazing data about how much money is turned around, it's the easiest profit of all possible profits that exist in this world and there's almost no good enough organization to earn and that evil can stop it from spreading. I'm just saying that we're not, Croatia's not a source of drugs, it's just a drug path from the east to the west, and therefore our government can't work very hard to stop drug production. We catch chains and succeed in collaboration with international organizations to catch these chains and sometimes break those chains and thus confiscate a larger amount of drugs somehow prevent it from reaching the end of the user. The most important thing for us is that we work in a family, in a school, in a hospital, in a prison, in any part of where people come, and especially a family from kindergartens to schools, try systematically to explain the evil drugs, the evil that happens to every single person who gets into the early drugs. So it's just like that, and in any case consumption, let's say marijuana and dealing is an absolutely safe way for someone to become an addict and die in youth. Therefore, on all these steps, it is necessary to prevent drugs from spreading and to try and stop the general evil through coordinated action by all participants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73235	Thank you. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you say after two and a half hours of discussion after this report on almost 150 pages? I would say very simply, it's more than obvious that we all have problems together today, all together in formulating something that should be called a complete strategy in the fight against drug abuse. The formulation of a whole strategy well balanced and complete from all these discussions is obviously missing and I will say something about it because I believe it is very important. Because if on these foundations and up to the year we formulate the report we're going to have a similar misunderstanding, and when it comes to such an important topic, then I think that minimising misunderstanding is a very important task, and that's why I'm going to talk about this problem in a different way. It is no exaggeration if I say that drugs are important, an important topic for the national security of the Republic of Croatia, and that is a fact for a number of reasons and should be aware of that. And he should be aware when this is being discussed, and he should be aware of this when a report is written, because drugs endanger the national security of the Republic of Croatia for a number of reasons, because drugs are closely linked to organised crime, drugs endanger the national security of the Republic of Croatia because international terrorism is financed through illegal drug trafficking. Drugs endangers the national security of the Republic of Croatia because it limits the demographic potential of the Republic of Croatia and seriously endangers the mental health of the Croatian people as a whole. Drugs endangers the national security of the Republic of Croatia because, among other things, it limits economic growth, etc. And these are also facts when it comes to these facts and when it's spoken that way, then the approach to making complete strategies in the fight against drug abuse must be something different. It's certainly not a dispute, and what I wrote yesterday when I read all these 150 pages, I said a good report. Many data, good statistics, mentioned some important topics of education, education in primary schools, secondary schools, university etc. and you can see this connection to a certain extent that is not at all controversial, but what is important, it is important to highlight the following. We need to think differently when we talk about this subject, in the context of what I said. Drugs endangers the national security of the Republic of Croatia and we can and must do more, and hopefully when we do this report next year, that such an approach will be much more present. Because the fact is that the Croatian Institute of Public Health has done a lot, but this institution is not the only one who can respond to the complexity, the challenges, the problems we face when we talk about drugs. And you're not the only ones who should be sitting here when we talk about such an important topic, and I hope that we will happen already in view of what the Government is doing right now, and what is not known, and I will stress some important activities of this class are being implemented and within the Ministry of the Interior and will be very soon spoken of by the Minister of the Interior, but I won't be talking about this moment. Certainly when we talk about the drug problem in this way, it is more than obvious that drugs and the fight against drugs have very strong elements of what is called international security, global security, international foreign affairs, etc. And it must be present because without it, without such an approach, without such a view of this problem, we will not be able to deal with what is most important and most important part of the problem, which is availability. Unavailability on the street, inaccessibility in Istria County or another but availability at the level of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and in this context, this link between the national safety of the Republic of Croatia and the availability of drugs in the Republic of Croatia must be increasingly informed and this must be more and more present in these reports in the coming years. Drugs is not just a Croatian problem and all these problems that we are talking about here and with which we are, and ways of solving to some extent unsatisfactory, it should certainly be aware that these problems are present in many other countries that invest much more, which have much more resources. And drugs are actually one of the key civilization problems. Because I will only say, not without reason and because of this fact, the 7th Framework Science Programme of the European Union, the issue of mental health is one of the priorities. It certainly deserves much more attention, one more comprehensive, more complete approach. What we're not talking about here, and it's about the problem of availability, I want to point out and it's important. It's about the security issues of protecting our borders. How do you increase that part of the measure that is very important? I will say very briefly, a month ago I was invited by the European Centre for Security Studies, Marshall Center, to give several lectures that relate to border security problems with the technical and technological aspects and investments that are very important here. Because that's the element that determines to a large extent the devastation of borders, proliferation, availability, etc. Unfortunately, for various reasons and understandable given the composition of the people who wrote this document, nothing was said and certainly this element deserves much more attention and much more of our organized efforts. The security of borders is one of the most sensitive and important issues and, in this respect, this part of technical, technological support deserves particular attention. The issue of the role of the judiciary, the state's attorney's offices, etc. is certainly not particularly highlighted. At the end of a lecture that I had in Tirana three weeks ago, I had a meeting with the director of the European Centre for Security Studies, Mr. John Rose, and he told me, thank you very much for a very useful and good lecture, but please, I have an observation. I said okay, what's the remark? He said something like this, they sent us 15 invitations. I thank you for coming from the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defense, but I must point out that no one from the state's attorney's office has come. And he said, "I'll inform my superiors." Marshall Center belongs to the United States Government and Germany and asked me to do the same in the Republic of Croatia. This type of education at the highest state level when it comes to a comprehensive, well-balanced strategy in the fight against drug abuse and is very important and deserved, I would say, equal responsibility. Not only in financing, not only in the reservation of certain funds but also in response to such organised efforts by the International Community to increase this level of responsibility in each country as much as possible. Interresorial cooperation is important, it is to some extent highlighted, but in any case, I want to stress again when a new report is done in the context of what I said, the fight against drugs is the interest of national security, then that approach must have a slightly more complete, comprehensive taste. Many European Union programmes are in our mood and should be used and used. There is nothing said here about some other restaurants that play a very important role in all of this, but I end up with what I said at the beginning. We hope that after these discussions, we will be smarter and more able to formulate a new strategy against drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73237	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73238	Thank you very much. Well, you could totally sign what Cosic was saying. And here, in the form of a replica, I have a suggestion. Since I fully agree that the issue of drugs and its abuses is significantly affecting national security. Here I am asking you, colleague Cosic, let's go to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security where we haven't discussed this topic, in fact, to discuss whether it is time to take a different approach in the fight against drug abuse. I agree with you that drugs significantly disrupt the mental health of the nation, but you must also bear in mind that a guilty approach in the fight against drugs can also disrupt mental health, because if 50% of young people in one form are in contact with drugs, so they are all potential prisoners. Now, look, I'm asking you and all of us here, how your young people are going to get a job tomorrow, all those who get caught with one joint or extasy are getting into criminal records. Today, not that you can't get a job in the state service, you can't get a job in a slightly more serious company if you have, if you're on criminal record, so you're not thinking long-term. And I fully agree with the availability, but bear in mind the following: the problem cannot be solved only by reducing availability. You know, you have, you've had trends you probably remember, it's going to be glued again, it's going to be taken combinations of different pills and alcohol, so there's not just one method, one way, it has to be a whole program, and I have to be honest that I don't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73239	Replication response. Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73241	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I must admit that it is commendable that fellow Cosic is being educated by judicial officials and abroad, because we are in favour, and I think that there is, that we are also in agreement that the fight against corruption, crime and all other evils is also part of the fight and part of national security. I hope fellow Cosic that you will exactly what your side of this hall did not advocate when the opposition asked to give more money for the work of the judicial authorities and also one of the reasons why you do not travel around the world to education for professional counseling is that the State's attorney and other judicial authorities do not have enough money. I hope that you will support this year and in the preparation of the state budget to make more money for these bodies, and if that is not the case, I hold you by the word that you will then support the request of us from the opposition that we will act amendmentally to, among other things, to the work of all judicial authorities, and also to the State's attorney's office to allocate more money because it will also be a sign that we want to deal with crime, corruption and all that is negative and negatively affecting the security of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73242	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73243	Thank you very much. I'm glad to find out the following, it's a serious, too serious problem and joint support for all of us to be as effective as possible, the more productive is extremely important. There are some questions that shouldn't be slow. I think that what is evident above all and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is working on some important segments which unfortunately for various reasons this moment is not an integral part of this report and I believe that some of what is important and in the context of what you said will be heard very soon. HDZ's interest is common interest in being more efficient, productive because we care not only about the national security of the Republic of Croatia, we care about our children, we care about our neighbours, we care about our future, I said, without exaggeration, an important, important topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73244	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Turkey.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73245	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representative Ćosic did not for no reason emphasize several times both in replicas and in his presentation where he calls for the action of everyone and it is actually not enough on the octaves with which he said it, as it is about the planetary problem, evil, at this point I see it as the greatest evil of the world, but something I would like to say here, and it is that we must all engage exactly what the esteemed representative said, all in action. I'll tell you something close to me, and I'll be personal, so I'll be allowed to do it. As a parent, I'm a witness where people failed. Namely, it was working in a class where my child went to high school, as a graduate, where parents, director and educator begged our parents to let the children go to the test. And we all agreed. It happened that one day my child came gunned down, hurt because all the parents kind of gave up, and I'm the only one, mine was there. That was just terrible. So I had to apologize to my child. He stayed as a Stigmatized, the only one with the aspect of suspicion was there, I had to go to school and sort it out. So I take it as an example of where we're scheduled. It's verbal, and when the action is, then it's missing from the part where you'd expect all parents, children, churches, institutions, just everyone. And these gentlemen who were ministers in the past term, you see how well they know things and synthetics and easy drugs and this and the judiciary, etc. So, I'm saying we all get seriously caught here and not get tired of this problem or think of it as just going to work it out, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73246	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73247	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's a lot of worrying facts and findings that come from this report, and also from today's debate, but I think it's the worst one, which is that society, meaning our society, our community, is easily losing the battle in countering drug abuse. That's what it is, which we need to be deeply concerned about because if you see this report is an interesting finding that the system works. On the one hand, the system works, and while on the other hand you have a growing number of registered addicts, meaning slightly less than 23 thousand registered, means estimates exist in the government itself, and here we have heard that this figure is far greater than three to five times what is shown, and how does this system work if on the other hand the situation is getting worse and worse? But the worst situation is the next fact that we unfortunately haven't gone through methods as scientific as would be an analysis of two cases, two current cases we've had in Croatia lately. First, it's the Korčula case. If we were to conduct a full and true analysis of the Korčula case the only courage we had to show, show Mrs. Ruža Tomasic a representative in the Croatian Parliament, my friend and colleague, and she should give us a bright example of how we can go from here to fight this monster, and that, if that analysis had been carried out, it would have been seen from the following that nothing was systematically done in the area of Korčula, and we had a national programme, we had reports, but it was visible that no one had done anything. An interesting case means that a certain Jaksa Cvitanović Cvik at that time had all known 92 criminal and criminal charges, and I hear that only a few days ago he was punished for the first time and after 11 years, about 8 months he was jailed. On the other hand, we see that the police were not doing anything systematically, on the third hand we see that neither the State's Attorney's Office nor the judiciary were on this case, the case was systematically done, and then the worst thing that happened in all of this I have information that Ms. Ruža Tomasic was a candidate for the award of recognition in the fight in that part and she did not pass, and she did not pass, interestingly did not pass. So there was a proposal to reward itself because it raised the issue of solving the Korčula case, it set a positive example of how we should all act and work, and it's an interesting situation that hasn't passed. Apparently, there were some others who were, far more, perhaps even involved in the case of Korčula, but on the other hand. And the situation second, second case, means what we can get through to good data. You read these weeks of ours and you saw somewhere in early July in one of our weeklys, a list of cafes was published in the City of Zagreb where drugs are consumed. Afterwards, it was transmitted to the other and the daily papers, and I was even amazed by the fact that there was one map of the future tourist season being prepared in the course where the area of the meaning could be consumed by drugs. And it's interesting that no one in this country has found any of the police, the State's Attorney's office or anyone else to determine these facts. So the list was of cafes in Zagreb, 17 I think the place was anywhere as neatly consumed drugs, cocaine, heroin, there were various kinds of things and nobody did anything, nobody did anything, and then we say that the rule of law worked. So in just these two cases, we can come to a good conclusion, which is what the drug flow is somewhere, who is behind it, how and in what way the police haven't done their part of the job, how and how, say, the State's Attorney's office hasn't done its job, or how and how, for instance, the judicial authority hasn't done its part of the job. Let's not fool ourselves, such situations, such cases, probably because I've brought these two out here, each of you can tell, and so this proposal to be credible let's just volunteer to apply for a test, let's say the government does, let's say that the Office of the President does, but all those who mean it as an example of credibility, but all those who participate in this action programme on continuance. In this way we will give a bright example of how and how to fight responsibly and to combat drug abuses because what happened to us last year, we were also discussing the report, then even it was said that in this part of it a new national strategy was being prepared, this national strategy was being adopted on 2 December of this year, but unfortunately the same will happen to us that the number of drug users will continue to increase, unfortunately we will continue to be proved that the mafia, the drug mafia in Croatia, will grow more and more and more on this, on drug trafficking. Look, the situation of it, it's estimated that in the world it's worth over 600 billion dollars a year. It is huge money, and for Croatia level it is moving towards some estimates of 120m to 150m euros, and every day we are aware of the fact that thanks to Mrs. Ruža Tomasic and the police have begun to function. We must be aware that both the police and other parts of Korčula have started to function and normally I welcome that part, but they cannot reconcile with the fact that one of either the officials or the bureaucracy has taken off the proposal to be rewarded because it has helped the police and all of us, the whole social community to go into a decisive account and fight against the drug business and against this part for whom both counterpart Banac and many have pointed out because all these cases, so if they don't move, if they don't take responsible and effective measures and actions just go to that point that they're all involved because how could it have happened that he escaped from all of them, and the police allegedly arrested him, and they all know that he's in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What he did in that area is that still drugs are present down there, still drugs are present and what's going on is the worst part, that people living in that area can't speak publicly because they're afraid for the fate of their family or someone in that part. These were visible in the stands held by Mrs Tomasic in that area. So, then, as Parliamentarians, we have to be responsible here and give our examples how and how we can contribute to the fight against this monster because God forbid the next report gets worse so to say the shift is made, the system works, that we have officially over 30,000 or 40,000 registered drug users. That won't be a result. So let's talk about it now so we don't get a new report like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73248	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73249	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague Kovacevic said a system of prevention organised, less accused, less punished but more addicts, and there we all saw from this report, and we are all unique in the assessment that the situation in society is not working and that really necessary emergency measures are needed to take action and therefore I agree with my colleague, Cosic, who said that a representative of the Ministry of Interior should also sit here and I would say the representative of the Ministry of Science and Education. And I certainly have a feeling, and it seems to me that we are unique in the fact that repressive organs really need to do their job effectively. We can't be responsible for someone who's irresponsible. So when he tells counterpart Lucin that those who are due to ecstasy of a single dose of ecstasy will be in court files and won't be able to get a job. Well, for the mother of God, if they know they're gonna be responsible for it and they know they can't get a job for it, so why are they doing it? We cannot be responsible because they are irresponsible! And that's why we need to work both family and school and the whole system to change the system of values, that our children can finally be responsible. There is no parent in society, in the world, who would not want his child to be the best, to be a good student, to be a hard worker, to be educated, to be a useful member of this society. No parents. But apparently many parents need to learn how to be responsible parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73250	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73251	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad my colleague agrees with these findings, too. Unfortunately, which aren't just mine, but these are the findings of the report, but I don't agree with this part that we're not responsible. We are responsible. That's why we have a bright case of Mrs. Ruža Tomasic, how and how she can fight this monster. And part two, why are we responsible? Because of the fact that each of us here represents at least 17 to 18 thousand Croatian voters who ask us, they chose us to make a decision instead of them, to ask us to deal with this monster and responsibly and to indicate how and in what way it can be, so that we can call the government, to call all the irresponsible ones not for persuasion, not for the sake of criticism, but to be constructive so that their children, our children, our grandchildren, the great-grandkids don't come into this funk, and we know what the situation is. We had a lot of cases and families and the case of that minor from Korucula, which Mrs. Ruža Tomasic saved from that drug monster. So that's what Croatian voters expect us to do, and I think we should stick to that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73252	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73253	So Marni and hardworking counterpart Pero Kovacevic gave me a piece of news that I also received from PDS, the Public Intelligence Service, namely that indeed colleague Ruza Tomasic was proposed for some recognition by the MUP and that it was obstructed. So that's one big news and I think Mr. Vice President of the Parliament that you need to check it out with Minister Kirin. And especially given the circumstances that Mrs Ruža Tomasic and her health suffered, she has been stressed most in the last few years. I have already suggested that this House should propose it for the City of Zagreb award and I do not expect it to be decorated by the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73254	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73255	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I also came from two independent sources to this information through PDS, as well as Mr. Slaven Letica, and I think that the proposal of a respected colleague is in place, that we expect you to call Minister Kirin and say what's true in this part and if it is, and I don't believe that it's not exactly what Letica and I heard then it's really scary, how the MUP grants recognitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73256	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Kovacevic, you have absolutely the right to say that we are not dealing with an analysis of cases from which we should draw certain lessons and conclusions. We simply don't have the political will to read signs, times. As far as this case is concerned on Korčula, it is true that there has been an expression of the courage of your colleague, Ruža Tomasic, but all the misery and misery of our repressive apparatus, because instead of bringing the police to jail, it leads to coffee, and the inmate, the dealer, the cymbal dealer, and now that we are analyzing it all together. And I agree with my colleague, Cosic, who says he needs all of us to engage because we are all responsible, I absolutely agree. However, to approach that and in many things where we have agreed, where we have reached unique conclusions, this House has reached certain conclusions unanimously, which means that the political will of all parties has been to make these conclusions and operate. But in the end, we have the government's silence and we in the Parliament, what have we done? What did we do? We shrugged our shoulders to the government's silence and, let's say today when we hear the argument, I'm going back to the Therapy Community Act. There doesn't have to be a law on therapeutic communities, Mr. Secretary of State. No matter who wants the law. Well, whatever his name is. But let him legally regulate and give legal frameworks for what the profession tells us is necessary. And this is how we let it go. And the therapy communities can be any way, everyone can work, we can place there and the funds and that those funds were thrown into the wind, and then we, when we discuss this report and this topic then say, so we let 50 million kuna go into the wind. We must not treat those responsibilities, we must not treat our responsibilities that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73258	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73259	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Well, you're right. The Korčula case has just proved and pointed out that this system, which is said to work in the government's report, is not working at all, and these are ecluent examples of how one can be argued in the report and for example, such as the Korčula case, such as this case of the discovery of a coffee shop where cocaine can be consumed openly, and all forms, heroin, and all forms of drugs, are ecldentically talking about how, in fact, the opposite. And therefore, let us, in future, analyse methods and cases in this way, get the right results, indicators, real strategies and real action plans and programmes, how and how we should act but not just the police, not only the Government, but also us representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73260	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Sabbath.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm still gonna have to keep doing what my colleague Lalic said. Namely, the case analysis described cannot be a strategy. It can't be a substitution because institutions don't do their jobs. For example, we all know that education and prevention is the most important but that training needs to be done by the office, county centres and personnel, spatially, etc., designing several national priority programmes, creating a stronger system of funding but, above all, institutions need to prevent dealers from walking freely on the streets. Drug availability should be reduced. Of course, when we talk about this report, then it is evident from it that we have an unequal work of county centers. Well, it's not exactly that in Istria and Zadar, etc. County's the biggest drug presence these centers do the best. So also for Varazdin County if you're watching she's here at the top but I know she's there in '96. A county centre was established and invested year after year from county budget. So this should create, therefore, a system of funding and institutions that would anyway do their job to get dealers off the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73262	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73263	Dear Mr. President, I'm sorry, my colleague obviously didn't listen to me or Mrs. Lalic. ... No, for this part of the case analysis. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If there's a system, and the government claims there's a system, we've heard there's a system, then I've taken two examples to analyze whether this system works, and I've proven to both of them that it doesn't work. In fact, he's capitulated. So, what's the problem? It may be a beautiful strategy, but if there's no implementation, there's nothing to it. The principle of Roman law says, "And bad law will be good if it is carried out by good people."but a good law will be bad if it is not implemented or carried out by bad people. So let's learn something. So these cases here, the case analysis is about whether the system works or not. I've given two and I could give another ten of those examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73264	Thank you. You can't have a response to a replica. Replica is a respected representative of Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73265	Thank you very much. You're telling your colleague that by our own example, we should be exposed to drug testing here as agents. Well, it would be very interesting to see the results of different tests here starting from the first ones to these on addiction. But by doing so, we wouldn't really show anything. In fact, we would show that we have capitulated from the real problem of drug availability and why drugs are more. And as my colleague says, there is no doubt that drugs are growing, but this example that you set with our colleague Ruza. Well, everyone knew that. But the system only responds to push. When there's nowhere to react, then. Well, every quarter of a little bigger town knows exactly who the bigger little drug dealer is. This guy's not on the street, he's never an addict, and the police never come to him. It is also true that all those people are either natural persons or those who are obliged to act since they are in the system must be aware and are aware that they are dealing with such means to expose their own lives. But that's true. But why isn't it done? It doesn't work for different reasons. First of all, normative things are different set up, that they've stayed out of the law because you're catching kids instead of treating them and putting them in jail for the colleagues you've replicated to this one, for Extazy one who added three years to each other. Well, the judges aren't that naive and neither are the state lawyers, the principle of opportunity, and they don't charge it at all, and the courts are often finding a situation right now, so they publicly said they would oppose such a law that is nebulous.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73266	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73267	Dear Mr. Vice President! Well, first of all, I'd like to welcome this young man to the gallery. For their sakes, I have suggested that we set a good example for them, a concrete example that we not only have a political but also a personal will to fight the abuse of intoxicating drugs and to test ourselves, so we will thus set the best example for them both how and how we can all fight it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73268	Replica esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73269	I would just like to replicate my colleagues Kovacevic here on this generalization of the functioning of the system. So, I have to say that in Koprivnica-Kristevnica County police are operating as regards the prevention of drug abuse and that last year, in the operations of Kalnik, last year, the largest amount of drugs has been seized in history. Therefore, it is obvious that in some parts of Croatia the system works and in some other parts of Croatia that this system does not work. Therefore, let us now not unfairly accuse those who have worked hard to prevent, to cut off these drug flows in Croatia because this drug was not only intended for our county market either in Croatia but probably for some other markets and for the very good treatment not only of the police but also of the local communities, cooperation with the local community managed to prevent it. It might be good to take that case to see how the system can function on certain parts. What worries me is that in parts where the system didn't work and that's Dubrovnik-Neretva County or the police administration, nothing serious happened. So, that no one has been removed, that no one has been fired from the police and as far as the government is holding this report, or to the prevention of drug addiction, and that no police minister sits here, no minister sits here. Here today this report does not defend even the vice president of the government for a family who was to come here to sit down and defend this report or tell us what it will all do in the future. Unfortunately, family consultations across Croatia have been reportedly opened. Here, we took pictures in the sixth month in Koprivnica, until today's competition is not even open for jobs. So, just take a picture and after what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73270	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73271	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I agree with this work of an esteemed colleague, if the picture should then be moved after the painting and meant in that section. But we also have to say, I think you should be concerned about why there's so much drugs in your area, on the one hand. On the other hand, I went on a case method to test whether the system was working or not? So we can't talk about the fragmentary functioning of the system. If he segmentally, fragmentally functions in the area of your county in terms of police work, but we have... Where it doesn't totally work, does it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have an area of the city of Zagreb where this was published, nothing works. So it's not a system, it's a set of partial, good people who want what we want, and that means we make the system as a whole and it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73272	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know, a lot of people have praised this, I'd say that, dear colleague, that I can't agree with most of your things. You said here that you knew, that you knew everything, that, that, that we all knew, and what do we know? That we even know where the gentleman from Korčula is? That he's in Bosnia and Herzegovina. ... That's what the paper said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't let me tell you everything. When we talked about the paper, you said it like this, you said it, Mr. Representative. Like, in 17 restaurants and cafes in Zagreb, cocaine is sniffed. I pray it's written in the paper and we all know it. Here, in all those cafes and restaurants, I was staying. It seems to be coming out tomorrow in the paper, they found positive in the Parliament, they found, according to the newspaper, that they only found positive cocaine in some bathrooms of those restaurants. It is very ugly when we say that all restaurants in the city of Zagreb, cafes that can be sniffed and coked. I can't justify that. The other thing is, I'm going to rely on what we say when we say, "We all know," and even one colleague said that we all know in neighborhoods. Imagine, and that colleague was the minister of justice. No drug dealer during that time has ever fallen or been arrested or discovered. And we can say that we all know everything. I personally don't know who's taking drugs, who's selling drugs? If there were drugs, there would be drugs. That's all I can say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73274	Thank you. ... You can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of an incorrect quote has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73275	Well, I'm sorry that fellow Arabovic obviously didn't understand what I was saying. I was saying that in early July of this year, a report was published in one week with the names of cafes in Zagreb, where cocaine is sniffed, drugs are consumed. In every, every Francis, in every legal state, this cannot remain at the level of speculation... or in the media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rule of law will either say it's true or say it's a weekly, it's an incorrect thing, which upsets the public in this sense that it's not being consumed there. So I was saying from the point of view that it's inadmissible. If this news is published in one week and no one is doing anything in the sense that it is or is not, but that variant to keep it in the air is it or isn't it? That's the problem. That's what I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73276	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In this debate, I'm going to come from a very simple, logical question, do we, as a country, as a society, win this battle with drugs or lose? The report reads: "There are more addicts. More and more drugs are increasingly available." If the data were to talk about reducing addicts, about smaller quantities of drugs on the street, about increasingly inaccessible drugs, then I would say a strategy that we as a society as a state have to fight drugs is good. She's giving the results. But year after year, we read data that tells us otherwise. Well, that's what we read in this report. So something's wrong. Either it's not a good strategy or it's a good strategy, but then those who do it misimplement it so it doesn't give results or doesn't have a good strategy or a good fight method. I'm afraid this is the third. Now, we have to decide if we're going to praise these reports year by year, be satisfied with the statistics, or we're going to openly admit it went the wrong way, so our results are bad. Why am I saying I think it's headed in the wrong direction? The basic question we have to ask ourselves against who we're fighting the war against? A drug addict or a drug dealer? If we've decided to wage a war against addicts, then the government is right, it's a success. It's a success here, sanctioning them. The Penal Code has been amended, three years in prison... Penalty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Great! If that's our goal. Close all addicts. But if we're supposed to fight a war against a drug dealer, not a drug addict, then we're not good with the method. And that we're not good with the method shows the numbers that apparently say it's wrong because the results are bad. Drug addicts should be treated, not punished. They should either be treated in therapeutic communities or treated with Metadone. Well, that's what experts have to say. Here on behalf of the HDZ Club, a representative of the club said that Methadone therapy was no good. He knows that better than an expert. And as long as we work so hard that the politician decides whether Metadon therapy is good or not, we won't move from a dead end. We keep saying, "War should be waged against drug dealers and not drug addicts." Now how is this war going? Money made on drugs is of course illegal, black, dirty money. He's just about to be washed. So how do we fight money laundering in Croatia? Because it'll be effective. It's just that we don't let anyone who puts drugs on the market wash that money. Let's get him there. Not to catch him at the disco club because he's not there. Don't go down there. And how do we fight this money laundering? There's a Brodosplit affair that Interpol claims to be an eclectic example of money laundering, even Sinisha Poljak has not yet been heard. There's no time for a man to be heard. A friend of Prime Minister Sanader's, what's his name? HDZ Executive Secretary in charge of the cash register, I'm not surprised the police didn't listen to him. I'm not surprised the police didn't listen to him. [[The intruders don't understand.]] He was at a very high post in the party. Interpol says it's money laundering, the police don't listen to anyone, not exactly like that. Dear God, that's not how we fight money laundering, because if those functions are whether or not someone's a cashier, whether or not a friend of Sanader can be easy on him, and we have six million doubts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73278	I'm asking you to get back on the subject because otherwise I'll take your word for it. Please return to the report on the implementation of the national drug abuse strategy in the Republic of Croatia in 2005. I'm assigning a warning and in the next moment I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73279	Narco-business... according to estimates of 150m euros in Croatia, 150m euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As much as we can expect this government to control 150 or determine where 150m euros have been washed when it does not determine where 6m euros have been washed. How? Where can we believe that? Wherever we can talk about it seriously when the vice president threatens to take away my word when I talk about it, about money laundering, about not fighting money laundering in this country, and Agent Jurkin here gave us a lecture on Churchill. It has a lot to do with Churchill's drugs. She didn't take away his word. These are even double criteria for Sinishi Polak, according to money laundering, to anyone. Prevention. What excuse, please, has Minister Primorac, that's before he's here today. What's this more important job he's got? Why isn't compulsory education introduced in primary schools? In the fifth grade of elementary school in one class, you learn about the dangers of drugs, alcohol and nicotine, and if we think it's good, that we've done it now, then we won't, then we'll lose the battle, then we surrender immediately. And why isn't it one mandatory subject throughout primary school because the danger is too great. You understand? Not for someone to pretend to be important or for someone to say later, I'm a minister to introduce it. The danger is too great. How can we count on success if a police dealer escapes, not because he's skilled, but because they went to coffee with him without the Home Secretary dropping after that? He has to resign, not for subjective guilt, he didn't let him go, for objective responsibility. There's no responsibility in this country. If the state has a problem, and I think the state has a problem, that we as a society have a problem, then we have to agree on God's people whether we're going to solve this problem effectively or we're going to leave it like that, pretend to solve it, write reports like this, and then praise them in the House, and they're going to get more and more and more drugs are getting more and more available, if that's how we're going to make it all go away together. But if we're really going to decide to stop this evil, we all agree that it's evil, then forgive me, we have to ask the Secretary of the Interior's responsibility when the police run away because they're taking him to coffee, because it's the only way we're going to get everyone else in the chain to behave responsibly. Then we have to ask the same minister's responsibility for not being heard to this day by people who Interpol claims are involved in money laundering, we have to ask, so let me explain why they haven't been heard. So we have to ask why they don't know where that cat who raised some money is. They don't know. They haven't even looked for him yet. We have to because that's the answer, too, and when we successfully fight money laundering, when we have a police officer in front of schools who follow... The drug deal, when we're not chasing consumers, but dealers, then we'll be able to say that we did what our civic duty and our political obligations tell us to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73280	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of the Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73281	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic said that thinking of me on behalf of the HDZ Club said that I said methadone therapy was wrong. That's not true. I said, and it remains with methadone therapy being conducted in our country and the world becoming increasingly questionable, and that a life-free methadone award and the creation of severe methadone addiction is a major obstacle to drug withdrawal and that would be as if we gave alcohol to an alcoholic for free, that's what I said, but I didn't say it wasn't right. But you have yet to make so many false allegations, and you forgot to say that the fight against addiction and drug abuse is still in this form in which a great success of Croatian state policy is carried out, given that in 2001, from your ranks, a young colleague who no longer sits in benches as a representative publicly propagated drug use.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73282	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73283	Dear Mr. President, Assembly representative Stazic has said a number of inaccuracies, the practical whole of his discussion is incorrect, but one is a particularly dangerous and incorrect allegation, which is that this minority government should invite people to a hearing in a case led by the State's Attorney's Office. Mr. Stajic, as a lawyer, you understand when the case is being processed by the judicial authority that no one has the right to interfere with the case because it is a pressure on these judicial authorities. It's a weighty responsibility for your inaccuracy that you're a lawyer, by the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73284	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73285	Mr. Vice President, my colleague, Stazic, except that he did not stick to the agenda incorrectly stated that the government should conduct the procedure, that she did nothing in the case of Brodosplit. Namely, the investigative authorities know this and not only the whole of Split because it was published in the newspaper, doing its job quickly and efficiently, and what the prime minister does is what he could as Prime Minister and he did hasten to take you and similar procedures wherever they are and who participates in them as soon as possible and those who are guilty of punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73286	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73287	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the false assumption that there was a question of responsibility for Minister Kirin. Minister Kirin reacted very quickly, but I think we should also ask Mr. Stazic and his team for the imitation of the cultural Chinese revolution in the Fascism Victims Market, which has proved to be the unit for measuring the primality of Jan Skojevac. And finally, don't be afraid, there'll be more Actavis, you won't fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73288	This isn't a correction to an incorrect quote, you've abused a tile. I'm giving you a warning. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73289	You tell your colleague Stazic there's no good strategy, no concepts, no methods. And you asked a key question. In this fight against drugs, who is the enemy here? The state defined him, this government defined him. It's that boy or girl of an under 16-year-old who adds each other ecstasy. That repression is unkind. So, first of all, the crime of possession. ... A year's sentence. [[I don't understand the speaker.]] Now for such a single add a minimum of 3 years. And look how this repression against those kids is going. What does it show? That the number of addicts is higher, that the drugs are getting bigger. So, gentlemen, you're not doing a good job. But you're good with addicts of every kind. First they about the budget small, and then...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73290	Honorable representative Stazic to whom you are replicating from your side. Here you go. Okay, but you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73292	Because if there's no addicts to this extent, it makes sense who the enemy is. So it's obvious that the fight is entirely directed at the wrong people, it's against the victims. No one's going to say that drugs are useful, or that it's harmful, we all know that. But the methods to punish these children so drastically, you can see it didn't bear fruit. That they've been doing it now that the minimum penalty has been prevented, in the sun, in the middle of the day they're caught by cops like rabbits. But these distinguished gentlemen, these respectable businessmen I say are never addicts in any way, they're never street dealers. And that street dealer he's at the bottom of the pyramid.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73293	Thank you. You say your decency requires you to look at me. I'm sorry, at least you looked at me. I'm really sorry. Replication response, jealous yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73294	You see, my colleagues, I wouldn't mind the repression and the possession of drugs. Drugs are evil. You really wouldn't have anything to do with it if we had a report right now. Here, the government had one original idea, an original idea completely, let's go after a junkie, or not even a junkie, persecuting those who experiment, maybe the first time they got in touch with drugs. And you will see that we will succeed. And you will see that we will control the drugs in Croatia. And if they had a minimal shift in that, I'd say it's an honor to you, take off my hats, and say hello to you, I welcome this decision of yours. But colleagues, when this repression not only gives no result, but it worsens, the police deal with catching kids by disco clubs, there's no time to deal with drug dealers. I'm just wondering if that was what it was, if it was intentional to hire the police to deal with the kids so they wouldn't have to deal with these. I can't believe I can't believe even this, uh, incompetent government would have such an evil intention. Because that would really be a bad idea. But, I'm sorry, when one MP says he's gone, there's no point in asking the minister's responsibility because the drug dealers run away, it doesn't make sense that it's purely politics, so I'm no longer sure of this claim I made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73295	Replica, the esteemed representative of Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Stazic asked the question of who we are fighting, who this government is fighting against, who this society is fighting and who we are here in the Parliament. So he said against the addicts, against the dealers. I would try to answer that question, and according to his discussion. We can start from the fact that the dealer is indeed an evil man and against him however we fight, I think that fight is justified. However, an addict is not an evil man but is sick. Now I'm going to tell you really as a doctor that we really should fight, against the disease. Why? Because addictive behavior is defined as a sociological, psychological, biosocial problem all the way to genetic and molecular, hence damage at that level and this disease is classified as a chronic, relapsed brain disease in particular. So that's what we're fighting. And this report in which you spoke this way is proof of what was done. And the finding in the report that we have problems, that we have more and more of those who are addicted is not evidence of poor work. Also, I'm going to tell you a scientific fact. If he drinks, if we smoke in our family, or if these young people or any other one first smoke a cigarette or drink alcohol and get drunk, they have a better chance of taking drugs. And, Mr. Train, you belong to a party fighting the legalization of easy drugs. Now you can imagine how delusional you are. Let me find out how your formerly good debates this time, the one you presented here is not at all a contribution to the fight against this disease and this great addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73297	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73298	First of all, this party has never fought for the legalization of easy drugs. It's a complete lie or your complete lack of understanding of the problem. We've advocated decriminalization. It's one thing, something else entirely. And possession of easy drugs would remain in the breaking sphere. So it wouldn't be legalized like you're imputing it to us or you don't know what legalization means. But I beg you, when you speak of it in the future, speak with understanding. Don't put yourself on the SDP with fiction. It won't help you, so people know that. Well, they listen and they know the difference between you and legalization and decriminalization. Secondly, you're saying that because the results are defeated, we don't have to say that the government is doing bad. So what do we do? Praise? We should say bravo, you have an increased number of junkies, you have more drugs on the street, bravo, excellent methods of fighting. So don't ask us to. Well, we're not some kind of reasonable people we know how to think. We're sorry, we're warning the government, we're well-intentioned, okay, you were walking one way when you chose that path you were talking about, it's not good for you, you're not going to get results. You won't. You disobeyed us. Now that the report comes, when we've been right, we're warning you well-meaning again. Shime Lucin told you on behalf of the club, think about changing your strategy. Put in this report that you have made one proposal for minimum innovations, minimal ones. But do you now care that the government is boasting here or that the drugs in Croatia are less? If you care to praise the Government we will remain silent, and you praise it. You praise her as much as you want. But if you care about the drugs in Croatia, then listen to what you are told. Listen, you'll be more efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73299	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73300	Thank you very much. After all, a fellow Stazic has an important innovation. For the first time, we've got a color report with bright cover that's really nice to hold in your hand and this is how we do it. ... And you didn't all get it? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then I apologize, I thought we all won. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A fellow Stazic could not agree with you in one fact, which is that something important would change on this plan for a minister from this government to go away. In fact, it's not about this or that minister, but I see the problem actually in the concept of investment. Because it's a difficult situation for me to say that Minister Lovrin didn't leave whose ministry we get information or that there's no difference between easy drugs and heavy drugs. You can actually extract from that finding the whole evil that's happening to us in this area of drugs. Because obviously in this repressive part of the system, we're also fighting heroin, cocaine and, say, marijuana. That's inadmissible. We heard from that ministry another better statement, that stealing is stealing. So he stole your bike or robbed a bank with 10 million kunas or euros that it was the same thing. Gentlemen, it's not the same thing. And that's why we happen to have kids with one joint getting criminal records, ending up in prison harassing them, increasing and improving national and police statistics, and big dealers walking freely because the police have no time or resources to fight. So it's a concept. My experience on this area, Mrs. Petricevic Babic, I wish you had some of them because then you would understand what the problem is. You don't really understand what the problem is when talking about drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73301	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73302	Listen, about Secretary Lovrin's statement, we learned all kinds of statements. Today I read one of her statements, that corruption has no political omens, so imagine even when political corruption is it must not have a political omen. Well, I'm pretty clear on that kind of statement. So it takes this terrible fact that the top of the executive government's policy is caught in corruption and needs to be removed from politics and then these statements are made, that political corruption has no political omens, it's just corruption itself. But when you told me you suspected something would happen if the minister flew away. I'm not sure you'd be left without a complete echo. I am convinced that the next minister who would come would make sure that the cops no longer run away from any drug dealer and don't go to coffee with him, I am convinced. That he had to step down not for subjective guilt but for objective responsibility. Because you know in the previous government when that affair with Baxter happened, the minister left. Well, it wasn't the minister's fault, but she was, there's a responsibility in that government, a different attitude towards responsibility. Now that the dealers are running to the police because they're taking them to coffee, there's no responsibility, no responsibility for anyone. It's a style of governance, it's a message to both voters and citizens, that it's the government's behaviour and that it's such an interpretation that there's no policy in corruption and even when this corruption affects the highest peak of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73303	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73304	Well, fellow Stazić, I think it's not the problem in this report, but that the problem is in you, because you don't want to accept this report as integrally as it is, you don't want to accept it as finally, you don't want to confirm that there's something completely different behind the big numbers. You approach this report Analytically and then discover with the right by me, all the phallicness of both the strategies of such concepts, and also the method used in the eradication of this evil Croatian society and because you reveal the essence of the problem and you give the real truth to the surface, it certainly does not answer to the rulings. But I wouldn't want on this issue that is so significant, politicizing, but I would really like to point out that underneath these numbers that are given in the report, there is a farce actually. The great numbers, the great number of acts discovered behind them are the poor, the poor, those who are sick, those who sacrificed their health by taking this evil, not those who are on their evil, who are engulfing the great riches. And that's why me and us at the SDP were both for decriminalizing the use of easy drugs to users, for users. And I resent some of the statements that they made here and some of the colleagues who said so when they know it's an act, it's going to be criminalized why they're taking it. Well, a young man when he was 16, 17 years old if it happened once, so he shouldn't drag the file his whole life, and that's why you've discovered all these falsities of this report and that's why... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73305	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73306	Thank you, dear colleague of Peru, you're probably right. The problem is with me, because I really can't be fascinated by the polish on this paper on the cover of this report. I cannot be fascinated by the sentences in this report, which reads: Permanently visible presence has been planned in places where people, sellers and consumers of intoxicating drugs are gathering and meeting, it is for the Ministry of the Interior, they are planning the same thing. That's what they're planning. The time of planning has long passed, dear gentlemen. A long time ago. You should've accounted for why these people, why these presences aren't here by now. What are the results? Gentlemen, you're going into the election year the second year, the cycle is over, it's the time of the billing. My colleague, Peru, cannot really be fascinated by the desire to support the government at all costs in such an important matter, even the one who openly admits in the Report that there are no results. It is nice, it is understandable to me that the parliamentary majority wants to support the government, however, this problem is not the problem of this or that of the government, this is a problem for all of us because we are all parents, because our children may be at risk. And if this government or any other government doesn't have the results in this fight then it hasn't lost this or that government already we've all lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73307	Replica, the esteemed representative of Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73308	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, unlike my colleague who said we're fighting a successful war against addicts, I don't think we're making a success. In fact, we're very unsuccessful here, because our goal should actually be to release us from addiction. We don't want to put them in jail, so they'll get out of jail eventually. Our goal should be to get rid of addiction, to get people outside who won't be addicted. And it is the expert advice of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse for the third year in a row that points to the need to amend and supplement the Penal Code in order to enable prison addicts to be replaced for mandatory withdrawal in the therapeutic communities under exactly the prescribed and established programmes. So far, we've had several amendments and additions to the Penal Code, but in that part of the Penalty, the law doesn't change. Now this is the third time that it's listed in the report, and we are, of course, justifyingly, wondering if there's going to be a change. There won't be a fellow Stazic, so there won't be a Deputy Prime Minister. Well, if she went somewhere to take a picture, there's cameras here. There's no Justice Minister, there's no Police Minister, there's just no one to hear, and the Expert Council has made its own. He drew conclusions about it, he instructed, now probably in overwork all those I listed have no time to read nor conclusions, let alone reports. Therefore, we are not waging a successful war against addicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73309	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73310	You know, fellow Lalic, when a government doesn't listen to the opinion of the profession on some issues, then it's certainly not good, then it's an increase. But when he does not listen to the profession's warning in this matter, then it becomes an example of irresponsibility and haughtiness. You know, I'm listening to HDZ deputies today. They fought so hard to justify the government's behavior, that... And they don't care if this company is going to be freed from drugs tomorrow or at least with a little less drugs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's their primary commendation to the government. That government that, as you say, doesn't even respect the opinion of the profession. No, it's not a minor question. It's not an irrelevant question. This is a question of fate, well said counterpart Cosic, it's good, it's better if you listened to him, who said, this is a matter of national security among other things. Among other things, national security. He rightly warned, he rightly warned about the size of the problem. But when, if we are aware that we have a problem, a big problem, then we must first listen to the profession that says, how do we solve it, and the other all well-meaning who participate in the decision-making process. And not to say that when a man favors you, he well-intentionedly suggests "change that strategy" that you throw him "you want to legalize drugs, you promote drugs". Nonsense. Insults that mean nothing, and only make things worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73311	Replica, the esteemed representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73312	Like this, colleagues and colleagues. This item is called the Report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. Mr. Stazic has asked the only question relevant today for this debate, which is, is, at this point, whether the state is winning or losing the drug war with drug dealers? Are we narrowing down that market or are we ineffective in that war? That's the question I asked in front of the HNS Club. I'm glad he did it again. Where I disagree with him, however, and where I replicate him is in something he said today. In fact, he concluded quite correctly that we were very inefficient, but he said that he would be satisfied with the minimal shifts. This way it can't be satisfied because all the indicators in the report are negative, which is true. Fewer reports, fewer charges, fewer convictions. But I don't agree with him. We are the Croatian Parliament, we must be much more serious even if there is significant growth and the number of applications and convictions and convictions, but if the trend and the spread of the drug market grows faster, they if they grow 15%, and we and 5% are more effective and it is a loss in pace and it is a defeat for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73313	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73314	My colleague Doric, I am not immodest. I'd really be pleased if the shift was in a positive direction, even if it was minimal. Even if it's minimal. Because you know what that would mean? That would mean that a good method has been chosen that may not have quite entered the fuller swing, but, well, it's going in the right direction, something's working. Like this, when all the indicators are negative and persistently defending the wrong method, then I'm worried. Well, you know, so the numbers are this negative, but if someone said, come and say, look, maybe we made a mistake, maybe we shouldn't have done that. Come on, though, we'll listen to the profession in the future and let this report say, let's think about it in the future. Maybe we're going the wrong way. I'd be happy with that, too, and I'd be happy with that. But when I see perseverance, a terrible insistence in losing the battle, it's clearly lost without doing anything, and then I'm worried. I'm worried about that fact, along with my entire club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73315	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73316	Well, dear fellow intern, you've asked another question, and that's a question at all about this report. So, this report is called the report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2005. What did we get? We received statistics on what individual segments of the system in 2005 worked, police, Institute of Public Health, Center for Prevention of Dependence, etc. There is no reference here to the strategy at all because if we had received a report on the implementation of the National Strategy then it would have been said which were the objectives of the National Strategy, which were measures for the implementation of these objectives, which we have taken of these measures and whether those measures have achieved the result that we have set with this National Strategy. For example, the National Strategy discusses that permanent measures will be taken to minimise the potential of the production and cultivation of intoxicating drugs in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We don't know what was done, we don't know what was done in the field of education, we don't know what was done in the area to control drugs in areas near kindergartens, educational institutions, etc. So, this report is not at all a report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse because we do not know how much of this National Strategy has been done or whether the objectives and measures have been adequately set, because if we had received such a report we could refer to it, we could say that a new strategy or action plan should be done for the future period to achieve the satisfactory objectives. Because I guess the National Strategy didn't say that we would have measures that would result in an increase in the number of addicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73317	Thank you. I'm interrupting the morning session. Continuation is at 15.00 hours. The word has a distinguished representative Brdarić. It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73318	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We continue with the session and the debate. It's time for the honored representative Ljubica Brdarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73319	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is an extremely important report, the report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2005 and in that report stands. During 2005, a better coordination and effectiveness of the system was observed as a whole, as reflected in the more effective implementation of the measures, better organisation of the system of treatment of addicts, a greater number of drug seizures, more active involvement of local administrations in the implementation of drug prevention in their field, a greater number of prevention and educational activities carried out throughout Croatia as part of the school system. Based on this, it would be concluded that the national strategy and the action plan are good that we do not have the conclusion in the follow-up that the number of addicts is growing. Obviously, there's something wrong with that and it doesn't make sense. Either the national strategy and the action plan are not implemented or they are not good. In any case, if the system as said worked, then Cosic would not rightly conclude that this is a problem that is a problem of national security because drugs really destroy both the physical and mental health of the nation. The fact is that drugs are all present and easily available. Sometimes, in Slavonia, the windows were full of muskets, and a few years ago, you could read an article in Slavonia saying that the grandson owed his 80-year-old grandmother, and it was a village in the far east of our country, that in his absence he had a plant. As you can guess, it was marijuana. And Grandma already is, she watered it neatly until the police arrived. And then she found herself in a miracle. The fact is that they used to be drug-threatening residents of big cities, and now our children are not safe, unfortunately, not in the villages. There are drugs everywhere, it's not expensive, and it's used by the curiosity of the young population, the tendency to try, to be different, not to listen to authority because they're in years when they think parents know everything better, so I think there's a problem with mentality. We're a people who, when you forbid something, they will, because then that means you're cool in your environment, and when you find out that you're an addict, that you're a sick person, then unfortunately it's already too late. In this report there are statistics, there are figures that many have mentioned and I will not, but I must stress that behind each number there is one personal and family tragedy and ultimately a social problem. There's a lot of talk here in this report about those who have exposed themselves to this evil and bowed down. I am among those who feel that education and prevention should be more present than family through school. We would have to explain to our children that what begins as something harmless, occasionally, can become regular and very dangerous, can turn into a disease. It's been said here today that we shouldn't give up on addicts. I agree, too. It's just really hard to save someone who gives up on their own. And people who get into a situation where they're on heroin, cocaine, and other heavy drugs have found that life is too hard, that they're not ready for it and that it's far easier to escape into addiction and hide from life. I think the ones who say parents are the ones who find out are right. But it potentifies the responsibility of us as parents. What we've been doing if we don't know who our kids are hanging out with, what they're doing, and maybe they're so unhappy that they go to extremes, and we're not aware of that because we think it's enough to feed them, dress them, and give them a good allowance. This means that there is, among other things, a problem of family communication and responsibility. The problem is so complex that we must really involve everyone at all levels in solving it. And those who are lucky that their children are healthy and unhindered and those who have no happiness, schools, society as a whole. If the system had functioned, we would not have had a situation where parents self-organize themselves, take justice into their own hands, and punish dealers. It's a sign of ultimate despair and mistrust in the system. And that's not good. That is why resolving the problem should be approached far more seriously. We all probably remember a debate a few years ago on whether there's an organized crime in this country or not? And it's concluded that no. So there's no narcotics, there's no drug lords, and if there's nothing, if there's no one there, it's really hard to catch. And the fact is that drugs exist and addicts exist. And what are we doing? We catch consumables, addicts, those who are already punished by the fact that they are addicts, i.e. sick. And look, please, you get caught with a joint theoretically, a three-year sentence as far as possible, and you go to that prison and easy drugs, which is why you're punished, lightly and quickly in those prisons, you cross over to all the other kinds of drugs, because we heard the market and there it blooms. That's why we are not for legalization, but for the decriminalization of easy drugs because, as we have heard, that kind of punishment does not solve the problem, but often does. It has been said that we are a transition country and that drugs are mostly just traveling through us. And then maybe look at something along the way and it turns out. I don't really believe that either. I'm absolutely sure that there are people living among us who are very good at living and earning money in other people's accidents and misery, and I'm sure it's going to be like that for a long time because, as we all know, with prostitution, human trafficking and weapons, this is one of the most profitable jobs in the world, and I think that the problem is in the world, and it means neither it can solve either easily nor quickly. But that doesn't mean that we don't all have to mobilize to try to solve this problem as effectively as possible and reduce it to the least possible measure so that we won't be able to find the drugs in one, let's say now, the Stroshins, the vast majority of you certainly didn't even hear about that village, is at the border with Serbia. We who live in border areas are particularly exposed to this evil for the pre-exposed reasons of the issue of permeability of the border, police action, and so I don't want to call the police in general except for those gentlemen who work in the police who like to drink coffee with dealers and who behold the miracles after that coffee and disappear and nothing happens to anyone. There's a lot of things in this country that you can't control, but that no one after that is responsible is actually the scariest thing in all of it. If we want to send a clear political message that we are against this evil, planetary evil that threatens both small and great nations, we should when something like this happens and punish and call upon the responsibility of those who are in charge of protecting us from the same evil and defending us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73320	Thank you. Replicated representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73321	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! I think I should commend you in your presentation for most of it. The only problem is when you say that if you make one example take a boy one or a girl, it doesn't matter which joint and then it ends up three years in jail and then it moves on to harder drugs because in our prisons like you said, there's a lot of it. I wouldn't agree with that, but what's the difference between going to jail or on the street? It means that the joint is the only one I'd say the initial phase. So if he's going to jail for stronger drugs, harder and more dangerous than one joint, if he's out there he's going to keep it same outside and today we're saying it's nothing. Look, today in the European Community, if you're going to check in on a job competition, the question is whether you're drinking coffee, how much coffee, whether you're eating tobacco and how much you smoke a day. And then we'll write down everyone's not smoking tobacco, I don't consume, I don't drink coffee, but I take a couple of pills and I light a joint. I don't know if that person could get a job anywhere in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73322	Reply to the replica esteemed representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73323	Well, we could get into a situation where they ask us how much Coca-Cole we drink and how much sweet we eat because you can get diabetes, fat and everything. The fact is that we are talking about our children who should be protected in every way and not after the first mistake so hard to punish. We should treat them, not send them to the middle where they might be more endangered than on the street, that's what this is about. And quite frankly, we don't have to agree with Arabovic, but it's quite certain that in prisons he doesn't learn anything well, that often people from prison come out worse than they did because we had a chance to discuss and what the situation is in our prisons. And I wouldn't be inclined to expose any child in those young years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73324	Second Replicated MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73325	Well, you've seen a problem where this government is about to place these perilous enemies of boys and girls who first even encounter drug use. So instead of treating them, instead of preventing a matter of some kind of criminal liability, she put them in prisons, and those prisons that today have overcrowding capacity, or over the capacity of 180%. We've seen this from a report by the attorney general and they're becoming, so it's more impossible for those people in charge of their resociation to work under these conditions. So, these kids, this mole is located next to those hard-core murderers, the most difficult robbers, and these prisons are precisely because of the conditions as the public defender who is under human dignity has become a school of crime, and they later learn what they haven't even learned on the street. And please, it's the state of the prison, we read it from the report on what the state of the prison was last year, about the state of the prison, about the human rights in prisons. And in late 2003, when you took over the government and thus the prison system, you received an assessment from the relevant institutions that this prison system was an example to all transition countries. You've come a long way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73326	Reply to the replica esteemed representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73327	My colleague, I repeat, I'm reluctant to punish the victims of a patient addict. I'm far more inclined to punish those who get or deal drugs harder and harder, who make our children sick and make a big living on that, and as we've heard in the morning, live as respected citizens of this society, and no one dares touch them. We're not going to continue to resolve the symptom and leave the cause of the disease intact. If we work that way, we'll read these reports year by year, and we'll be surprised, disgusted and laminate over the increase in the number of addicts, and we'll have to talk about the terms, we'll need to, we'll see, then, when we don't know but live here and now and we need to deal with the problem now because right now we have over 20,000 addicts, every day they're getting bigger, the weather's going on unwittingly, and we can't wait to get the perfect strategy or action plan. We should admit to ourselves what the real problem is and start solving it rather than chasing drug addicts and small dealers who are sick in most cases themselves and still keep them untouchable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73328	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73329	Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In this morning's presentation in front of the Croatian People's Party Club, I spoke about the results of this national strategy. Then in this morning's presentation in front of the Croatian People's Party Club, I talked about the results of this National Strategy. I then presented the shortcomings of the report itself, or above all, that there is no adequate analysis of the reasons why such poor results have been achieved in certain segments. Third, we have stated that there are no proposed measures to improve those clearly bad parts of this National Strategy where we have not received results. And fourthly, in order not to just criticise ourselves, we have made 5.6 proposals for measures that we believe should be incorporated into the strategy so that it really becomes effective. I'm not going to repeat what I said this morning, but I'm going to look back on the fact that a colleague of mine has expressed her opinion that she disagrees with me, that this report should not be accepted today. I said that if we accepted this report that it would be a defeat of us as officials, as people, it would be a political and moral defeat. I'm still standing by it. And I'm gonna try to explain here one more time why I said that? In the report on page 4, you have one sentence, which reads: "So in 2005, we have better system efficiency as a whole." So better system efficiency as a whole. It is thought of by means of a system to combat or combat the abuse of intoxicating drugs. My colleagues and colleagues just look objectively at this report and you will see that the number of addicts has increased significantly. This means that the drug market has grown significantly. That drugs are being sold in increasing quantities and that we are clearly losing more and more young people. So how can we call it a better efficiency of the system as a whole? Then the amount of drug seized. Look how it's been falling year after year for the last few years. Look, yeah, yeah. I read this morning and the page on which you have that table of colleagues. So is this better efficiency of the system as a whole? So I went on to say and you see that the number of criminal charges in the segment of drug abuse is getting smaller, smaller and smaller. So it's also better efficiency of the system as a whole. So the number of indictees last year is less than the previous year and it is better and more effective, namely better, better efficiency of the system as a whole. We still have fewer convictions in the past year than before. So all parameters. And again, we dare say that the system is more effective and that we raise our hand, so we don't blink. We further find that there are fewer addicts who go to therapeutic communities. We know how important they are. And that it's practically the only effective, effective way to get these people out, save them, bring them back to society. And that's efficiency, so that's how it's wanted I don't know how to justify that it's bigger, better than before. My colleagues and colleagues are losing this war with drug dealers. We're losing him. I wish it was just one battle, but I'd like to see at least longer paths that things will turn in favor of us who don't want it to happen to our children or our families or our society anymore. So don't blame me when I ask for one of these reports back, to be completed. To supplement him with what colleagues and colleagues? I'm not looking for anything unusual, supernatural. I'm asking you to tell me which schools were effective in these programs, which are ineffective? Let's give some commendations. Let's try the others. Which educators put money in their pocket, and they did nothing, and those others made a lot of and big shifts in the system. Let's say what police stations were effective? Let's commend them. Let's put them out. But let's also say that others didn't do anything. Who didn't do anything? Which courts were effective? Not all of them. Why put everything under a common denominator? That's not possible. That's not correct. It's not right for those who made the step, and I believe there are those who made the step. He's got them. And we put everything here under a common denominator. It can't and can't be like that. That's why I'm staying with my colleagues. I remain with the fact that this is really not a good report because this report should have been about the implementation of the National Strategy. Our conclusion must be that it is not implemented, that it is inefficient. We have all the parameters that make it inefficient, and we don't have any measure that we intend to reverse the situation with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73330	Thank you. Replications.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73331	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to replicate to a respected colleague in the part where he criticized the system himself compared to a small number of indictees. In that sense, you are absolutely in contradiction because a small number of indictees are going in this very sense to strengthen the prevention and enforcement system and in terms of criminal prosecution of criminal sanctions against those measures which, in this particular Article 173 or the possession of small amounts of intoxicating drugs, do not criminalise and put anyone in prison, especially not for three years when it comes to minors, but rather the system of criminal-law repression whether it is the State Attorney's Office or the judiciary that applies that Article 28. Penalty law. It applies the principle of opportunity, and these young people are not prosecuted but refer to treatment and appropriate institutions. If you've carefully read this report and the state's attorney's report, then you're in conflict with yourself as far as that goes. Because only because against such perpetrators is under the allegations of criminal acts a smaller number of accused or pronounced criminal convictions is exactly a contradiction and the exact opposite of what you and your colleagues on that side are saying all the time by sending a distorted picture of us being in prisons full of minors or minors and even up to three years of age because they owned one joint or one gram of marijuana. Absolutely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73332	Replication response. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73333	My colleague, I'm only talking about drug dealers. It's the only group I see that needs to be put in jail. If the market is, the drug market has increased by 15% 15% more goods on the market, 15% more dealers and 15% is bigger. So, please, I'm a bit of a cartoon here, but you know what I'm talking about. Therefore, your story that we did not put these young men and women in prison, thus trying to justify our ineffectiveness. I agree with you in that segment, I agree that these children should be left alone. But we need to prevent all those who don't do what they need to get to drugs near their schools, from going through drugs. You know, to give them a chance to heal in therapeutic communities. It bothers me. I don't mind the fact that we haven't closed 100 or 200 students. It would be a shame to base my, I don't know, obstructing or not accepting such a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73334	Second replica, respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73335	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to replicate my colleague Doric. When it calls, or indicates the ineffectiveness of the system and connects it to the acceptance or non-acceptation of this report. So we have a report in hand. About what? Thus, a report by the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. We're not talking about strategy here. We're talking about a report on the strategy. Also, when it is stated that the system is more effective than ever then I see a colleague, Doric, and you as a professor know the difference between efficiency and efficiency. So I see here that the system is doing a good thing. Now, we can discuss how effectively he does it. Do you understand what I'm saying? But here at this hour, right now, it's not even a question. Right now, the question is that we have a report. Therefore, it is no reason not to accept this report and not to support it because it has increased neither do I know the number of drug dealers. Well, the task of this report was to find out. And then, based on this and this report, we can just bring some new guidelines and some new plans to how we're actually going to improve the system completely, that is how we're going to improve our strategy to be not only more effective but also more effective. I think we understand each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73336	Replica reply, Honored Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73337	Unfortunately, we don't understand each other. We don't understand each other at all. This is the report on the implementation of the National Strategy, how we implement it, how we implement it. We're doing it so we got, in 2005, 15% more addicts than a year ago. Okay? This is the result of the implementation of this National Strategy. And what more do I have to tell you? What more do I have to tell you than that? You're satisfied with that? So we do it in a way that doesn't produce results. We prayed for a colleague, we only prayed for it, to see why and in which segments do not produce results, to try to propose measures in these segments, only to begin to distinguish between those who are effective and those who are not. Why would someone who works great with kids at school who's managed to turn down clear drugs from that school, why don't we commend them? Why wouldn't I have the right to see 15 failed schools in Croatia in this regard? Why do I have no right to ask for that information? And why don't I have the right to see why schools that aren't so effective are at the bottom of that ladder? That's what I'm looking for. Why shouldn't you do that for the police station, for the courts? I guess we have the right parliamentary deputies to get some kind of efficiency scale of our society in every segment of life and work. That's all I'm asking. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73338	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73339	Your Honor, Mr. President, I agree with the presentation of an esteemed colleague that the system is not working, that the system is not working. And I think it's scary and the most intense are examples related to interrogations, inmate testing. Because if the system can't function as such in prisons where it's visible that the increase in the number of tested positives, let's say in 2004, a thousand 273 people were tested, of which 121 were positive, meaning slightly less than 10%, while in 2005, a thousand 4598 prisoners were tested, and 184 were positive. So what are we talking about? So no problem drug finds its way to prison. And then we say that the system works. So how does it work when it can't work in prisons? Then you shouldn't expect some better results from that system that's obviously ineffective, it's wrongly placed, it's on glass feet. If it can't work there, then where it should work to reduce this number, and we can see it's increasing. She's over 12% there now. So the drugs go into prison and we say everything's fine. What would be fine if, there should be a full sense of that word. How can drugs go to jail? And no one answered, say, in the penitentiary as far as possible, and that's still happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73340	Replica reply, Honored Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73341	I didn't mention it now, but this morning you heard that I was just talking about it. So I was talking about state institutions where we are directly responsible. Close, Croatian Army, police and drug affairs, etc. Well, here we are directly responsible colleagues and colleagues. I, as a member of the opposition, consider myself responsible. I consider myself responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73342	Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. During today’s debate, two things are completely mixed all the time. So, we're discussing the report, so the implementation of the 2005 strategy. I remind you, this strategy is no longer in force. The strategy was adopted by the Croatian home on 2 December 2005. Therefore, comparing the 2005 data with the National Strategy 2006 to 2011 and the 2006 Action Plan, which seems to be all day today, is completely wrong. And there's just been a change in strategy since '96. For 10 years, the national strategy has been changing because of certain difficulties that have been either uninjured or have proved to be in a new direction. The other thing should also be said. The data in the tables shall be interpreted continuously without any explanation which is also given in this report by table. So it's been said all along that the number of registered addicts is equal to the number of increases. We said in the report that 15.7% more registered. It's not a conditional increase in the number of addicts. Because a relationship in societies where there is no regulation is a relationship where the number of unregistered is about five times the number of registereds. In societies where this is exactly how it is established, so the records and registrations, that number goes about two to three times. So the increase is obviously there, just not as much as it wants to be shown. And the prison system should be given responsible, so it's only in the last year and a half in the prison system that records it. So if it starts to register, so clearly, look at the report in 2004, look at the report in 2003, and you'll find that there really is an increase, but there is an increase in records, not such an increase in the prison system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73344	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73345	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting an incorrect assumption, maybe it's a lapus, but it's been said that the growth of registereds does not mean an increase in addiction. How many eight I informed, there are some fixed formulas around the world to calculate the number of addicts. It shall be calculated on the basis of the treated, registered. So if the growth of registered addicts is logical and the only consequence is that the number of addicts that we can spin around with as many heads as you want, Mr. Secretary of State, but unfortunately that's true and that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73346	And respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73347	It is unfortunate that the secretary of state claimed that since last year, the number of prison addicts has been determined. Well, that's always been determined, but maybe it's sad that you just know it now or you want to reduce... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73348	Comrade Antičević, stop. You weren't correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73349	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73350	You've been expressing your regret. Thank you very much. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73351	So I'm correcting an incorrect...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73352	Thank you very much. Enough. ... You can't argue with the chairman. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please sit down. Dear Representative Krunoslav Peronja. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I thought at least one topic in the Croatian Parliament would bring us closer together, not as representatives, but as parents. I do not disrespect fellow representatives who do not have children but all of us, so here is the theme Report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2005. I'd be happier if this topic brought us closer, if we were to propose to the proposings something that might not be done and what we should do. But when you talked to all your colleagues, you referred to your experiences, to your parenting associations, and Churchill was mentioned here, and I'm going to tell you something, I'm going to tell you an experience that isn't simple, especially us who have been terrified of our children that God helps us be healthy and that we have the strength to get them out of this hell. Drugs have declared war on the whole world, drugs have declared war on the individual, drugs have declared war on all nations, drugs have declared war on the Croatian people wherever they are and families. After "The Storm" in 1995, I was the general consul of the Republic of Croatia in Stuttgart, and I was announced by a lady I know well, in a neighboring town, from my neighborhood, from Dalmatia Zagora. She came to me, sat down and said, "Mrs. Consulate General, I came after the famous Storm." The Croats won the Homeland War, and we parents won't win this war and many parents. Unfortunately, they lose battles in this war. I know the lady, she has four daughters, and today she has them, thank God they're alive. They won state awards in a famous high school. They were among the top four students. I look at her, I tell her, and Anne, so as a mother, you have to be proud, four daughters I read in the paper, I'm proud as the General Consul of the Republic of Croatia in Stuttgart, and it says that your daughters are getting a reward. She says to me you read it to me she's three months old, my daughters are all four addicts. I sat down and she told me these words. Your cross is wooden, mine is steel, but I have to wear it. I visited those two girls in one prison, in a woman's prison, if God gave them beauty, then it was really them, if he gave them their brains then to them, but unfortunately they went that way which, two of them had been in prison for a long time, and two of the younger girls were in communities, and so from year to year their mother kept coming to me, I was helping her, and before this Christmas, I was on a plane from Zagreb to Split, and I got a beautiful girl and she told me a good day. Turn around, I'm one of those nurses. God helped me. I was in a community in Croatia. And here I hope that this community has helped me in Croatia. I won't quote which community it is that I don't advertise it specifically, but that's how I saved myself unlike my three sisters. That's not why she came to Croatia to save herself. That we in Croatia have more chances of either fighting more or what other countries do. It is incomparable and never, since I lived for 30 years in Germany, I have never identified in any kind of life the country in which I lived for 30 years and my country with my history of war and pornography. Well, here I am going to look back on this report that's in front of us. It's acceptable for someone. It's not acceptable for someone. We don't accept it for political reasons, it's what it is, it's not written in words that anyone is satisfied with this report. No one is satisfied that the addict is in Croatia every day anymore and no one is satisfied that we have great results. But we are on this path to fight this war for which, once again, all wars in the history of mankind are over, but it seems to me that this war in the history of humanity will not end. Oh, my God, especially you guys from the profession, to tell me someday, and that's what's gonna happen. I will just say briefly about this report and I would prefer it regardless of my position, if I were ministers here, resolution ministers, Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mrs Jadranka Kosor and Minister of the Interior. But if they're not here, it doesn't mean they're doing less of a resourceful ministry than if they were there. But to us, the Croatian public would also be more responsible for this very difficult, difficult subject. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, I will quote: "Children and young people are included in the content of organised leisure to their socialization, active vacation and entertainment. For quality organisation of free time students priorities in the use of sports halls are given to work with children and young people." In addition to this sentence, the introduction of preventive teaching, coordinators, educators, etc. is constantly said. Mr. Secretary-General, you're well-known, and now we're ahead of the 2007 State Budget. From Trill to Imotsky, all police stations have been shut down. We are in the area, mountain-mounted area, the area of special state interest, security, when we talk about security, does not degrade the work of the Croatian police. Croatia and its borders are what they are. I don't think they're being watched enough, even in this way. Secondly, I repeat that it is given at the disposal of the sports hall to children at the time of their free time. Which hall can have a child in my Lovrech if from Trilj to Imotski there is no sports hall. I, as a representative not only of the Croats outside the country, spoke to Minister Primorec and pointed out the need for a school hall in Lovrech. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So let's use what we do today, we're all full of Europe, Europeans, I've lived 30 years in Europe. I know what Europe is. So let's use these subsidies and let's, let's do what we need most. Sports halls where the child in my village will be 15, 16, 18 or 7 years old. There's no theater, he's gonna sit down in front of the coffee shop and one little supermarket, he's gonna drink a Coke, and he sure as hell can get behind a wall, unfortunately, whatever he wants. Guys who have real sense of sports, where can he swim? In a well beneath my village? Where can he go to the sports hall, run in fields and meadows full of drab? So here's the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, I'm not just talking about the sports hall in Lovrech, but I'm saying that it's the most necessary thing, which is education and prevention, and this is one way. Which I can't identify that children in the place where I raised my three children don't have about what they have, what they had there. And another which would give great support to the Parents' Association. All of you, at all levels and we Assembly representatives, give little support to the Association of Parents because for us in Croatia, it is still a shame if someone's child is an addict. One more example, sir, I see my red light. I lived in Germany where they were, my kids went to school. There was a family living in our building. The mother was German, the father was Kenyan. And my kids told me that Angie was on drugs, that you should warn her mother. My neighbor comes by and says, "Will you talk to our neighbor, you're her first neighbor, point out that Angie seems to be an addict." Then I told her, I can't. You have a better chance with her, I'm a stranger, they'll listen to you. And when she heard the lady touch that it was telling her about the child...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73354	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73355	She was yelling at all of us because she wouldn't accept the truth. Well, gentlemen, the parent is not irresponsible here. God does not hate those whose children are addicts or us who were fortunate to raise healthy children. The parent's association I would give as much support as possible at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73356	Thank you, thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73357	Dear colleagues, I will not oppose what you have said, I can truly agree with that. But I'm gonna keep that story about four sisters. You said one saved herself. That's what I'm talking about, that's what I'm talking about. In my area, the wider area where I live, I stayed one day in one treatment community, and another day in another therapy community. One has the effectiveness of extracting 3 from 4, and in the other institution is not 0.5 of 4. That's what I'm talking about. And the question of how much money she gets and how much community she gets. That's what I'm talking about. You helped me with this story that this efficiency must be greater and must continue your thinking, do everything to save the other, and the third and fourth sisters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73358	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73359	I agree with your reply to the replica. But that doesn't mean that in this journey, our path that isn't as effective as we'd like, if there wasn't anything positive. There is, but a little. And unfortunately, as you yourself have said, only with God prayer depends not on the means, and everywhere depends on the means.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73360	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73361	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleague Zdenko for, in fact, showing the cases in the best possible way, actually showing what the drug burden is in this society. I also respond to her when she says that we need to be constructive, or I want to express my view that I support her in that we really need to be constructive on this subject, not into politics. So as my contribution to this constructiveity, I would only make two, three small proposals, and actually come from the practice itself, so from the Public Health and Public Health Services Circle as such. And that's actually the efficiency and effectiveness of dealing with this big problem, so it comes down primarily to one another, but primarily to prevention. Also, a colleague of Zdenka mentioned it to a lot of people here. What prevention? First of this hour, people who are heavy addicts are considered to be not to the extent that they should be able to enter the system, the system of treatment. Therefore, it should be ensured that those prevention centres, the county, are also the possibility of entering these people, secondly, supervision, greater supervision of risk groups in general not only, I am speaking of entering people to treat them as such. Then the supervision of risk groups per se, of those who take extasy once in their lives and permanently damage their health and their brain, so it is in a certain way replica and the one when it comes to the decriminalisation of light drugs etc., that it is not so and in the end I would end up with a small replica of my colleague Zdenka when she mentioned a well under her village, let's not be angry but it is the most beautiful well in the world, it is actually the Adriatic Sea, or Brela. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73362	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73363	You were talking about the constructiveity of our discussion and our proposals and I agree with you, and regarding my well I point out once again, under my village to Brela is half an hour to the beach, but unfortunately there are children and parents who cannot afford to swim during summer, and especially the winter time that their children can go swimming, that they can play basketball, that they can play tennis, and that does not mean that the children of my village are smarter, smarter than those children who can afford it. So I point out that, and I'm going to talk at the time of the state budget, and I'm going to point out that sports halls can contribute, I guess, not to the greatest extent, to a large extent, when we're talking about prevention, education, that would be a rescue for our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73364	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73365	And there's cleaner water in my well than in the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Babić Petricevic said that we MPs should agree, if nothing as parents and I fully agree with you when trying to protect children that we will agree both as parents and as representatives. However, it would be good to have in this Report the data of those institutions that work well with children and which have results, but also to have data on those environments where there are no such positive examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73367	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73368	I'm sure as parents that I apologize to my colleagues, I don't think they're any less valuable than us who don't have children, that this topic should bring us closer together. I think and I'm sure that in our places, although there is no report that there is safe movement on how to save that youth, that is, our present and our future. And there are just a lot of self-secret people working on it, who have successes, so I'm going to tell you a living example. At Imot School of Music. Now you're going to say Imotski and music school. Ninety-nine children, of those ninety children, I'm sure those nine children will never get close because they have something else to do, because they have to travel 30 kilometers from Lovrech to Imotski, because they have a chance at something else, don't sit in Lovrech in front of the cafe and drink Cola or I don't know what else. Therefore, you can see how much we, with little money or resources, could do more, and as Mr. Doric said, normally this distribution of funds, so in all aspects when we discuss any topic we say that we are not satisfied with the distribution of funds. And I'll tell you one more thing, out of these 90 students who go to music school in Imotski, music school in Imotski is in one state that's not on one envious level, so please, I asked Mr. Primorac to, that he really gives us subsidies for that school because it's a way of saving our youth from what threatens them at every step, unfortunately in the most ordinary village in Croatia you don't have to travel a lot, where you won't be able to get what's most difficult, and I said it myself and there's no point in repeating, a war that I doubt we'll ever get.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73369	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, all day long, there is a debate on the report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse. So, in the year behind us, and actually in one period behind us, as explained by fellow Golem, so on the last year of a strategy that has been in force so far, has expressed a lot of critical tones to that report. I personally accept him because he's who he is, he can't be better. He speaks and compares some facts that we may like or not like. However, I would like to join my colleagues who have pointed out a broader problem that this is not a report that is presented to us by the health care system, only when it's all over, when it's definitely a disease, and addiction is a disease. However, is this a disease that we can avoid? I'm sure we can. From this report it is evident that small children of high school students are mostly curious to enter into this vicious and perilous world of drugs. That's what we're finding out. If this is a disease, are we treating the disease in the same way as any other disease, so we treat every other disease so that we can also try to avoid it, if possible. And I'm sure we can do this one. On this entire road until the drug becomes, until the addict becomes a patient, there are many mechanisms that can be successfully and effectively solved and already mentioned. From the prevention that is number one, so working with children at the earliest stage when their curiosity is strongest and when they are subject to any challenges that are new and something even dangerous is that youth likes to cause. So, from family to school, all these educational measures, the religious communities that are also mentioned here, we can act, and I would say we can't be satisfied because there's obviously a lot of missing things. The other part that refers to the detection of those who support fire, so those arsonists, we call them drug dealers, so the whole chain of drugs, these are the police bodies and the judicial ones who must be much more effective, and where we also have a responsibility to help them be more effective, that we are not called to protect such politicians because I believe that we really have nothing to do with it, but at that stage surely that the system and the whole strategy, and this new one that is now ahead of us, must be much more effective to repressive measures towards the fire-bending team must be ruthless. There was talk that addicts who first came in contact with drugs should not be treated too harshly. It's a double-circuited sword because we're right here in the field of prevention. If we think he's an addict, he's a trucker. Why the caller? He does not transmit the disease by contact, but by means of his relationship to drugs he induces others and therefore is dangerous and therefore must act and call these harmless first contacts with drugs. It's not harmless, it's very dangerous, it's devastating, and there must be no mercy there either. Surely the difference in access to these offences or criminal acts, whatever we want to call it, may have to be different, but it must not be any treasure, because then it will show that we are not serious about accessing this problem and I will not now mention one of our top politicians who boasted that there he also enjoyed the youth of drugs, and that is disastrous, it is disastrous. Thus, in no case can this be an example and a rejuvenation to young ones in this way. This is a very wrong path, and we here clearly and loudly must say that we cannot support it as responsible people. And now that we've come to the stage that it's a disease, and then I still have to be a medic and think about it that way. If we've defined that it's a disease, then we need to make an accurate and elaborate strategy on how to treat it. Once the nerve cell of the brain has been destroyed, it is then a patient who can no longer be reversibly restored to normal conditions. Therefore, procedures must be defined how to treat an addict. So we certainly won't be able to cure him definitely, but we'll be able to sort of heal him and keep him alive for as long as possible because if he continues he's definitely going to die. So there's no going back. Now, if we say that we have to react to the disease as real doctors, then we have to support ours and what was already in the debate clearly about those who deal with it, so different treatment communities, etc., we have to figure out what treatment is, and what rehab is. Treatment can only be performed by a professional person, therefore in institutions when the doctor in the establishment determines the level of the disease in the first degree, the second, etc. If we're going to differentiate it somehow, then he's going to set up therapy. Only after such certain treatments as any rehabilitation center for any other disease is it these centres, let's call them communities, communities, etc. I can only treat certain algorithms of this addict. We must not be insinuated that this will be done only by the goodwill and altruism of the people who deal with it. I'd like to illustrate it to you with one example. When tuberculosis occurred, so a deadly disease tried to heal itself, but it didn't know what the real cure was, it didn't reveal it, with a stay at the height, with good food, I'd say onions and bacon, and did we cure it? We didn't. When did the tuberculosis heal? When streptomisin and all the other antibiotics that are now here are discovered, they're not very effective in all cases. So here, too, we need to determine the right cure. We must not be fooled that this will in some way only be done through communities that are not even defined until the end, which are certainly not properly controlled. Therefore, it is also necessary to act legally whether through one law, whether through several laws, but it must not remain such an unknown, charming, and then what counterpart Doric said about efficiency. Well, that's exactly where the problem lies. Some are effective, but they are effective ones that work well. But we can't fool ourselves and give money to some who are dilettant and, of course, ineffective. It's a violation of the protégé. So that's, if addiction is a disease, and for me, then we have to treat it like a disease, and at that stage, the procedure has to be respected. It's up to us who are in charge of the treatment. So when health comes to health, and here we see that now the Secretary of State for Health is the only one who listens to all of this, and all of what we can avoid is the disease of those, unfortunately, is gone. So, and we have to treat these old prediseases and diseases in a much more serious way, then we'll be able to say that that's how we faced this monster, but let's not kid ourselves that whatever we put in the strategy is going to solve the problem. Every single day must fight it either when visible, invisible, effective or not, but we must not give it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73371	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73372	You're saying a colleague needs to work on the efficiency of the police and the judiciary. Surely, however, we need to create a normative framework for the police and the judiciary to be effective, but also as we have created a legislative framework, i.e. you changed it simply by the judicial and police system acroched by dealing with peripheral matters. Statistics show, or not just statistics, but the annual report from year to year of the state's attorney's office so that the judiciary and the police in 75, now 78% of the cases are exhausted in the abuse of drugs in minor cases, and in the total amount of criminality in one year, so the entire criminal trial is exhausted in one fifth of the crimes, and our Penal Code with easier and harder forms has 750 incriminations, please. 750 incriminations and he's 1/5 in these kids. And you won't change it any more. '97. It's been a felony for years, so-called The mini reform, when our weeks and "National" and "Globus" began to talk about the terrible things that drugs are coming to Croatia, under someone's high patronage, not to renew these things, and then the government of the original HDZ government demonstrated its will to fight drug abuse. Introducing drug possession as a felony. And here's where you came from. Since then, the curve and availability of drugs and users have been growing steadily. So that's the wrong way, that's what we want to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73373	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73374	I don't know, my colleague Anticevic has now led the debate on the Penal Code. I wasn't talking about the Penal Code, I was just saying that everyone in their segment of fighting from police to justice must use those laws at their disposal. Therefore, there is not such a bad law that cannot be applied and given any good result. The fact that you're constantly pointing out that everything is lost in the fact that we're going to process those drug addicts who came in contact with drugs once, I think that's going the wrong way, and I didn't say it in that sense. I just said that the first time people get in touch, we can't easily understand if it's a very big danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73375	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73376	Mr. Vice President. Well, you'd be replicating a colleague of Bacic's who spoke. Here's our whole debate about it, I don't know which law, in any country in Europe, can solve this problem. What country in the European Community can boast that it has solved the problem? In some countries where, I don't know, drastic measures that I don't know, there's even a hand cut where it's done something similar to drugs, and we're saying this, the government, this government has solved it, so what can the government do? What kind of police can solve a drug problem in Europe? Dee? ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The government can pass laws and act by law. And now you're saying that the former HDZ government as what, dear God helped bring drugs to Croatia, as drugs were not there but only when Croatia was founded. Ask your senior colleagues what they've been to before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73377	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73378	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Well, I can say I can't accept this report because I'm not sure what it says is true. I'm afraid it was going to make things look better and it's not appropriate for what's on the ground, because Mr. Secretary of State, you've been complaining about not talking about the report, and I'm just gonna tell you about the report. Because by sticking your head in the sand, or by hairing the report, or by embellishing it, I'm sure it won't solve the problems of drug abuse. But in order to explain this finding, I'm going to give you an example of the Primorian-Gorski County I come from. In the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County report I have written, the total number of drug users is 505 people, unlike the state report where it says that in the Primorje-Gorski County, the number treated for 2005 is 383. So I wonder where 122 people who have been treated have gone and who needs to be shown a better condition than they are? I don't think anyone needs that. Another problem is the problem of redistributing funds that are also seen from the report. It seems to me that the redistribution criteria aren't good, I can even say they're odd at least. Because how else do you explain that out of the total number of people treated by county, that's 6 thousand 668, there are 732 people in Istria County or 11%. There are 820 such treated persons in Split-Dalmatia, which is about 12.5% somewhere. In the Republic of Croatia, funds have been distributed for the past year, somewhere ca. About 20 million and 500 thousand kuna. The Istrian County received 569 thousand 440 kuna or something. 2%. Split-Dalmatia received a million 920 or cca. 10%. I don't mind if anyone gets the money, but if they need a fairer distribution, they should. In this case, the state is once again someone's stepmom and someone's a very good mother. Furthermore, it is also saddened that in this segment the countries are very centralised. I can say that the marginalized role of cities is in solving the problem of addiction. Generally, powers are lowered to the levels of the county and units of local self-government are recognised exclusively as co-financers and do not have any powers whatsoever, which in our opinion is unacceptable. Another possible example in Rijeka, and I will end up with that, is the Therapy Society for Rehabilitating drug addicts in Rijeka. I wonder when the state will respect their own signed contracts. Because respecting contracts and obligations under contracts concluded between the city of Rijeka and the Ministry of Health and Social Care back in 2004, Article 5 of the Treaty where the ministry is bound in view of the activities undertaken so far in the city of Rijeka, provides 1/3 of the facilities in the therapeutic community for drug addicts in the area of Rijeka. So, even those signed obligations don't come true, so I'm wondering when they'll start to come true?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73379	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Dorotea said that this country is a stepmom and someone's mother is that the funds are not properly and evenly allocated to the centres for prevention of addiction, I have to correct you in fact because the funds are not shared to be the same to everyone but according to the founding state of people who have already worked in these centres for prevention of addiction, so you had in some county more, in some smaller people and hence some county has received more, some less funds. Here, so much for the clarification and the real situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73381	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73382	My colleague, I hope you don't mind me choosing you right here because you're the first one to mention the county. There's really a lot to discuss in this county section. I will, just let me read a few sentences to see that there are pearls over the pearls in other counties and just a report really in this form of writing doesn't make any sense. Here's how it is. The Committee for Discussing Dependence in the County was established in April of '99. A year. What does that have to do with last year's report? The commission has met a total of forty-seven times in seven years, an important piece of information on the implementation of the strategy last year. During 2005, an anonymous survey on school population dependence was conducted, samples of the sixth grade primary schools and other secondary schools. The survey included twenty-seven questions in the field of smoking, alcoholism, drug abuse, gambling, free time, and the views and reflections of the students themselves on state-of-the-art models in the local community. If I need something from it to learn, and to conclude and decide I'm really not capable of it, I have to admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73383	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73384	Thank you, colleague Doric. I'm sure there's a lot of misunderstandings in this report, but I found out from my county incorrectly. I really don't have the data, and I can't know if the results in other counties are correct either, so I'm sure I have reason to doubt if one of the data is guilty and the ones you're suggesting that there's more wrong data in this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73385	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic. He's not in the hall. It's Kurt's turtle. He's not in the hall. Vice-President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me first say that this report, by my deep conviction, is more about statistics and less about analysis and analysis that should be given in order to achieve a national strategy. The second thing I would like to point out in my discussion is, in particular, a question relating to the problem of the application of repressive measures or preventive measures. I am afraid that we have overcome the concept that comes from repression and is not only reflected in the Criminal Law in Article 173 but also in the problems that the application of this article is causing. I would like to remind you that among other things it was said in this article 173 that this amendment of the law equals a kid who offers his friend a joint and someone who deals in kilos of cocaine. They are threatened with equal punishment, depending on what the judge decides because one and the other are unfairly entangled in article 2 of Article 173 of Mr Sakoman said. So, I'm not talking, but said Mr. Sakoman, who specifically deals with among other issues, and in the end, he's one of the co-creators and the national strategy itself. What's the consequence? In fact, we need to look at the final consideration on page 54 and 55, which says that in prison spaces it is tried through semi-open and open conditions, then the execution of penalties to ensure that preventive treatment measures and education of addicts are actually carried out. But what are they doing there anyway? Who else saw drug users being treated for drug use in prisons? Well, that should work outside, and we definitely need to clear up with some things. From the world of crime, the use of easy drugs should be transferred to the criminal sphere and should not only be transferred to the criminal sphere but also punishable at the same time and so on. Educational measures to ensure the withdrawal of drug use. That's number one. Number two, at the same time I'm for a very big repression and even an additional reinforcement and such a strict, pretty strict drug dealing, especially for heavy drugs, and in that segment we definitely have to deal with this problem. It makes no sense that in overcrowded prisons we send youth and youth, and in this segment we actually write ourselves in the report that there, through semi-open and open forms of execution, is actually said among other things, I quote, "in the course of the existence of prison addicts and penitentiary in the creation and implementation of therapeutic programmes, an effort was made to include as many external institutions, participants etc.". Well, for God's sake, we're not going to have institutions, professionals and prison therapy associations actually working instead of working in therapy communities, associations, ultimately in our hospitals, institutions that deal with this problem. That's the first problem. The other problem that follows from this is actually consistency in law enforcement. On the one hand, such a provision cannot be laid down and, on the other hand, at the same time, that the State's attorney is then trying to mitigate the fact of the strictness of those penalties and is then called for in Article 28. The KZ says that it is actually trying to take as a small social hazard such as the possession of drugs for its own needs and then it is given to discretionary assessment practically by law enforcement or police to assess whether it is for basic use or not, so it will punish someone, some will not, and then it happens not only that we have inequality or that there may be inequality in laws but perhaps even abuse of positions and powers in such segments. And in this segment it is quite clear that this issue needs to be enlightened in a different way and this requires an amendment to the existing Penal Code and requires the actual issue of solving these problems, and of course it requires an amendment to and supplementing the Criminal Code which should increase criminal penalties for such cases and, of course, also prescribe measures for drug withdrawal. The second issue is education, co-operation with state institutions, local self-government, treatment communities, associations all the way to humanitarian organisations. However, this report of ours speaks more of a way of working, in fact, an institution that submits a report. It calls for co-operation for the local community, for the therapeutic communities but less. We need to see here, in fact, unity, unity and consistency of the programme that needs to be ensured as educational programs, above all, that young people are actually alerted to the danger of possible, the consequences of drug consumption on the one hand, and on the other hand, we need to react both as a social and as a state community. What we can offer young people as other forms and contents where they will actually crack and use their excess energy at that age for useful purposes from learning through entertainment to certain other content from sports to others. Unfortunately, in this respect, we do not have enough segments and it must not and cannot fall to the Ministry of Health alone. It can't and can't just fall for parents or just school and so forth. They have to be both both and third, and in fact all of us in that part are involved, we have to create a little more conditions and content in such a situation. In this respect, education and prevention will be completely different. And the third question, the fourth question that opens up, is the issue of therapy. You know, the issue of therapy can't be just about the fact that when the problem is discovered it's left to parents and consumers. We must have the opportunity to include more certain associations that will participate in this part and, if I may say so, those who have had the experience of using and using intoxicating drugs and have come out of this experience. Something similar to what Italy does, something similar that I don't know through the Red Cross in Italy or I don't know, what Western countries do and so on and so on where the former consummations that have cured themselves of all the happiness of addiction actually involve in therapeutic forms and through therapy allow young addicts to overcome both fear and shame of all that and to try to actually treat themselves. In this segment it is quite clear that parents will be the last to be, especially with us in a relatively traditional, conservative society to find out that his child is even an addict. He will find out a friend, a colleague, and so on, but we must allow these friends and colleagues to function as his withdrawal on the one hand or to prevent that cooperation from happening at all. And lastly, you know, it's good to work together on various projects of scientific research, sociological, health and so forth that are listed here in the country and with associations outside the country. But the problem is that few of these results are used for education to prevent young people and consumers from being protected. That's what's important for us to draw attention to, and we need to take action to see what we're going to do? Because just the way things are now, you see that we're working with... that they were projects like this, that they were projects like this and that significant money was spent on these projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But for example, I will mention the illustrations. We have several therapeutic communities that are a little bit talked about in this report, let's say cooperation with the Red Cross, which has 48 therapeutic communities of all forms of rehab. From, I don't know, the use of cigarettes, i.e. smoking, alcohol, drugs and so on, no reports and no funds that the state has given to do with the Red Cross to work. Why? Why isn't there? Very interesting. Very interesting. There are no contents and no opportunities to be seen when dealing with religious communities. You have a whole range of parishes in the Republic of Croatia that organize different facilities for children and for younger adults who provide them with the actual fill of their free time and their curiosity, education for other purposes, very useful purposes. From education to sports entertainment. Who practically act preventively not to get in at all, in a position to meet with the world of drugs and addiction. This report is not available and for all these reasons I personally think that this report is of course full of data that can be interpreted as such. But it is quite clear and evident that this report cannot be accepted. He needs to be taken to knowledge and should be seen in reality in achieving the current new strategy what can be done? And another important thing. It can't happen that we say, "We have a report on a strategy that has ceased to apply." A fellow strategy is paper. We have a problem with addiction. We have an addiction problem that is deepening and increasing year by year because it increases the number of drug users. We need to see what we will do to make this monster of modern society stand firm and help young people not to actually come to this temptation at all. And if they come to help them heal, not shut them down. Because where they're being locked up they come under extra psychic burdens that cause the need to actually run away from that burden. And that's a new challenge to escape into a world of ease and light-mindedness that creates drugs when consumed and everything else. And, of course, besides those who are actually criminals because they're both dealing and bringing them into that position to use, they're alone next to them. Therefore, this is completely unhealthy and for all these reasons, I again plead to consider the possibility that the use of easy drugs, or their possessions, and for their own purposes, should be converted from crime to criminal offence and that, with the offence, the fine must be prescribed mandatory forms of treatment or withdrawal measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73387	Replica, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73388	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to replicate to my distinguished colleague Arlovic in that part of his exposure in which he advocates that the possession of intoxicated drugs, that criminal act referred to in Article 173 and that small amounts of that criminal liability should be turned away or transferred to the area of criminal liability. And I think it's a completely wrong concept approach to the development of criminal justice institutes. Regardless of the criminal and criminal-material law, let's call it deviant or criminal behaviour, regardless of what population is required and necessarily should be kept in the area of criminal responsibility, if for no other reason than any of those health and all the other reasons we had heard in today's debate from respected fellow doctors. However, I am also of the opinion that it is absolutely necessary to apply the provisions of Article 28 in the procedure itself, criminal proceedings and the application of criminal sanctions. Penalty law. So those who refer to insignificant and leprosy crime. And in the process where the State Attorney's Office reacts to such criminal behaviours, the absolute principle of opportunity and not to mention the law on youth courts which allows, i.e. entirely some other measure or other kind of sanctions, but which they refer to as really insignificant crimes, for small quantities, for first cases or where the circumstances of cases really indicate that it is not difficult, let's say, or the execution of such a type of criminal offence that these criminal and legal institutes can then be applied. So, the absolute replica of this and this crime when it comes to drugs, when it comes to drug possession, should be kept not only for the sake of criminal law institutes but also for...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73389	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative, Vice-President Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73390	Dear colleague Tomljenović, of course I respect your opinion and we are actually very different in our views on this issue. But I want to draw the attention that comes from this report again. On page 54, I quote: "During the stay of drug addicts in prisons and penitentiaries in the creation and implementation of treatment programmes, an effort was made to include as many external institutions as possible whose field of work includes treatment and aid for drug addicts. It is precisely an insufficient number of such external co-workers that are lacking in the conduct of even more high-quality drug abuse treatments in the prison system, with as much knowledge as it is that the preparation of the release addicts should begin the first days after the appearance of the prison sentence.". Look, buddy, we're talking about addicts who, for personal use, have been using drugs, they ended up in prison. There's no one there to treat them, no one to give them therapy, you've seen the report. That therapy if it's given isn't enough. Besides, you can tell they're with criminals and everything. Therefore, it is clear that they need to eliminate this unhealthy environment as soon as possible. And it's only possible in a way that actually the world, the use of easy drugs, is decriminalized, turned into a felony and mandatory treatment measures of addiction. It's something else entirely. And in this respect I am actually for an active policy against addiction, not for a passive who sends an addict to prison and at the same time that addict, unfortunately, comes, psychophysically brings him into a very dangerous situation, because he is constantly delirious on the one hand and at the same time educationally instead of us acting on him preventively and educationally to prevent him from using and actually being treated... further deepen its dependence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm saying, we differ in that regard. Therefore, I think we should stop, open a discussion, professionally and meaningfully on this issue and come up with a quality solution in the interest of treatment of addicts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73391	Thank you. SDP MPs' club, 5 minutes of debate, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73392	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. As you have seen the SDP club in this report on the implementation of the National Strategy to control drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2005 shows that the government is on the wrong track to combat drug abuse. This has now become fully evident even though we discussed last year in the Croatian Parliament, this year on the State Attorney's Office's report on the state's work in the previous year, and also on the report by the Ombudsman of the state of human rights in the prison system. This certainly has to do with it because this report, along with these reports, is being referred to as one unequivocal fact, that the use of drugs in Croatia is increasing year by year, that the use is therefore escalating, that the state is simply powerless and that it has the wrong way of preventing drugs, the spread of drugs in the Republic of Croatia and the use of drugs, or abuse. As we have seen today, not only from the introductory letter which, in the name of the SDP club, we have brought forth by fellow Lucin, but also from our discussions, but also from not only the SDP club, that the state of its main enemies in the repression, in this problem, see those who are victims, who should first of all have a degree of responsibility and treat them. That's why, Mr. Secretary of State, you wanted to say in some way when you spoke to the Parliament on behalf of the Proposer that this report should not be interpreted as such. So you don't have to defend the numbers and letters in this report to get in line because it turns out that the state failed in... Don't laugh, because this is a problem to imagine, not to laugh, Mr. Secretary of State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This isn't funny. I have the right to self-help unless you protect me from this kind of...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73395	Comrade Antičević, stop. My colleague Antičević...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73396	And then...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73397	Stop. I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73398	I think and I'll...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73399	I'm interrupting!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73400	Because this is too much truth for an ear...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73401	I'm interrupting! I'm giving you a warning and I'm taking your word for it! This is the way you're going, you're not going to act unpunished. You know what, colleague Anticevic? Out of politeness, get down a little bit, lower those tones, lower that aggression a little bit, lower that entrenchedness and insult. Don't do that. If I had to warn you when it's not necessary, since you're already well enough you should know that. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, a lot of things my colleague Antičević said in his like this, I would say an aggressive step. First of all, the government is on the wrong track in this drug-restriction process. That's not true. The government is on a difficult path, a hard road like any who will come, and one who has been, in the fight against this vicious disease. And the second correction to the incorrect assumption that this whole action of ours is actually directed against the addicts of the unfortunate, not the dealers. It's just not true. We've defined exactly how he treats drug dealers and how he treats addicts. But if addicts can't be treated lightly, that's what I said in my debate. It's inappropriate and scandalous for your president to say so I've been smoking, haven't I?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73404	Second correction, a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73405	Thank you very much. Here I have a correction just like my colleague Bačić and I really have to say that as much as we're used to from colleague Anticevic on these tones and interpretations, but this is really too much and here's nothing to fix because my colleague Bačić has corrected it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73406	Next correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73407	Mr. President, three minutes has been said by a colleague, and it is too much in the Croatian Parliament, and I am particularly sorry that the gallery has the future of the Croatian state. I hope so, and I am sure that in the Croatian state, it is not like the colleague said. The wrong way to fight drug abuse and these Croatian authorities are not true. The main enemy thinks of Croatian youth in prisons. It is not true, the Croatian state deals with criminals and not addicts. Take the stenograms at the time we were the opposition, you position. In this way, none of us talked about this subject in the end and when a man studies a woman, he doesn't think about how hard it is to be a woman. But it looks like every woman doesn't think about herself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73408	Okay. Thank you very much. The next correction by the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73409	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'm going to call on those same incorrect allegations that my colleague Anticevic made, that's that the government is on the wrong track to combat the abuse of intoxicating drugs that it's only the goal of putting a mole in prison, it's completely incorrect. Or maybe it's incorrect for us, and for her, it's true. Because she came from a party not so long ago, six years ago, the president of the then government, the president of her party Ivica Racan boasted publicly that she had experience with marijuana, that the representative who sat in those benches, Miss Sanja said in public and in "The Morning List" she would advocate the decriminalisation of light drugs, and then we can expect from that same party that one day she began to advocate decriminalisation...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73410	Thank you very much. PGS, SBH, NDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know we're tired of this debate, but let me say on behalf of the regional party club a few words that are in a legal sense final and teaching on what Professor Banac tried to say this morning on behalf of the club. We are aware of the repetitions of each year almost the same debate on this topic in the Croatian Parliament on the previous year's report we thought it would be good to point out from the overall problem to the part that depends on the state and which depends on the society that stems from all those remarks that the whole series of MPs have made here. Again and again, only representatives of the administrative department who deal with it plus the Ministry of Health are sitting in the discussion of the drug problem and this is an indicator of why we are in part ineffective regardless of the effort of all. In parallel with this, MPs point to the importance of the issue of national security, to the importance of the problem for a whole series of other areas that the Government covers with its resolutions and there is never a minister of education, police, and I would say defences particularly based on today's debate. We believe that this shows clearly that all the forces of society are not united and are not concentrated. Whether a new strategy from December of last year will bring something to that plan, we will see next year. We would like to say about this very clearly, we are aware that the repression of this problem cannot be solved, but that effective repression of this problem in solving cannot be even started, family, kindergartens and education systems especially in our conditions and especially with our conditions in extracurricular activities that we still provide to young people are not effective enough. The data that the amount of drug seized is growing at the same time, but that the availability of drugs on the Croatian drug market is increased says that this part of the system is ineffective. And I would have concluded with a very clear message whether she liked someone or not, I think she was already told a few years ago. We still have people in the system of repression who are in contact with organised crime, cover this organised crime and allow it to behave in Croatian society the way it behaves around our primary schools, around our secondary schools, around sports halls, as it did in Korčula, how it behaves in prisons, and sometimes in Croatian military armies. And for this reason, the system of repression must be dedicated to breaking individuals' ties with organised crime, and you get results there, and then it will allow education, health and all those who have increased efficiency because that is our opinion and here we would conclude these five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73412	Thank you. The HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalić, 5 minutes of debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73413	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, I'm sorry that during today's debates, we have sometimes moved away from the real topic ahead, and the real issue ahead is the report on the implementation of the national strategy against drug abuse. We have seen this report as material not to confirm that professional services have been processed statistically but to give our political assessment based on the data collected. We, when we give a political assessment, do not give it on our own behalf, but give it on behalf of those who voted for us, and that was a motive for which we were very often involved in the debate, simply with the desire to contribute to the indication of what we have noticed from this report that it is not going in the right direction, but also to point out the necessary adoption of something else that has not been implemented so far. On several occasions I was very optimistic, and I thought maybe we really set up a consensus here, maybe we're really unique in this not only declarative but also in the real fight against drug abuse, but very often we're away from it. We are saddened that the secretary of state in one of its steps wanted to convince us that there is no increase in dependence in the Republic of Croatia, proving this by the fact that, I do not know, the increase in registered and treated does not mean an increase in addiction. This is what has completely disappointed us because it shows that the government does not have the courage to look the truth in the eyes or the ability to catch up with the existing problem. He wants to make sure there's no problem. We're being accused of comparing the current strategy to last year's situation. And that's not true either because only the data contained in the report is read here. Nothing but the data contained in the report. It is said that a new strategy has been adopted and that it will be better. However, this new strategy does not bring about significant changes. It is based on two principles, which is a reduction in supply and demand. From the overall debate today, and I say again, I don't speak for myself, we speak on the basis of what we see and hear in the field, we all have estimated that demand is increasing together, and of course by increasing demand, the offer is increasing. As much as this new strategy will be successful, we will talk about the 2006 Report. However, if there were also a Deputy Prime Minister who is the top of this pyramid of responsibility and Minister of Justice and Minister of Home Affairs and Minister of Education here, then we could believe that the most responsible people to solve this problem in Croatia from these discussions, which cannot be translated into conclusions, will nevertheless take something more concrete. However, the fact is that they are not in the debate today, and that is the fact that our fear is hidden that there is really no true will to put an end to them or at least to stop the outbreak of this problem. Well, maybe we'll come up with a sentence in the report that there's no growing addiction. However, just what we heard today, that we are now convinced that there is no increase in addiction, in fact it is already signalling that according to that report we should approach with a fat reserve, whether the report will not be in function at the time of the political need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73414	Thank you. Walter Poropat, the Honorable Representative, IDS Representatives' Club, 5-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73415	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. We will all agree in this House that there are not enough effective measures in more developed countries than Croatia is for the total control of drug monsters. And we will agree both as representatives and as parents that we want to protect our children in all possible ways that are available to us. However, the truth is that in some areas the institutions have better results and their efficiency is good and I support those who have made it clear in today's debate that that is exactly what this report should have given them a few more words. And in some environments, there are no positive shifts, and that's good to see in this report. For what? Because then we're going to go into these environments and help these people if they don't have enough personnel or enough money or I don't know what, to help them in situations where they don't have results. Well, it's desirable for all of us. These data would show us where something needs to be changed, and it's more about those environments. Today, however, the debate also mentioned testing children in schools. It might be a good idea for children in schools to be declared by classes, perhaps by a secret vote, whether they're for testing or not. I'm talking an example, if there are an average of 25 students in one class, there may be a few of them who have been in contact with drugs and surely a secret vote will come to the test being conducted. Let them decide for themselves. But I repeat, in the IDS Club's view, the IDS report would be more quality if the environments that have good results were set aside than those that might still have a lot to do there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73416	And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73417	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. According to what I know about speaking, and I do know a few things about it I teach my students, we could split the speech into two kinds. That speech that's focused on other people's ears and that speech that's focused on the very thing. Of course, in politics, it is often the case to use a speech aimed at other people’s ears, and the very thing is sometimes put aside or completely forgotten. This matter certainly does not belong to one where it is honorable to forget the very thing, and above all to speak for other people’s ears. And so many of those I've heard or heard talk first of all about other people's ears or their ears, and less of a thing they've kind of missed this debate. Of course, it doesn't pain anyone from what he did or from what he didn't do about this topic or about this problem, but I would go back to one of the things I was talking about, which I would like to point out once again. Obviously, the target group we should be dealing with based on this report is unemployed, middle-educated, between 19 and 20 years old. So it's not a group that belongs to some kind of subculture using some kind of drug. It is not also a group that belongs to the social or social elite, which also has some kind of subculture of drug use but is simply an obvious group that has been formed in the last 15 years. In the last 15 years of the circumstances in which we live and now what we would expect from this report is to answer us, if not this for the next year, how this group actually formed. What are the first places, which are the first hands from which they got different forms of narcotics. It's not enough answer that says it's usually in a peer group, because that answer doesn't really mean anything. This is the answer that this is about a superficial socialization, not what should actually be explored, what are the deep elements of socialization behind this. So, not only what is quite right most of the MPs here said, but the strict sentences of Vice-President Arlović and a number of others, the strict penalties for dealers, not the hacks of the users of the most different species as some say, but the testing for all living, but the strict sanctions and strict investigations against those who actually use free market opportunities, movements or I don't know what else, but at the same time as many engagements as possible, help those who find themselves in this kind of tragic and fatal network. But before that, we must have answers to these questions. What kind of socialization is really avoiding school, avoiding parents, avoiding the social care of those who care about it and allowing dealers to reach these people? That's what I'd like to see in the report next year. I don't see him this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73418	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The level of awareness of the problem of intoxicating drugs in Croatia is clearly rising to a higher level which is certainly contributed by this debate today. Personally, I also have the right to have a large part of the debate carried out in the constructive section and we can certainly agree on only one situation. The report on which I should give an answer, therefore, and as I pointed out in one intervention provides a certain number of data. Data collected by the methodology of both county and county centres and from the state summit. There is no difference in data and this is clearly and loudly given in reason and by reason can be done in a quality way. In the opening statement on behalf of the promoter, we have stated that we are not satisfied with the results that the Report is taking place, and we can also unfortunately say that we still consider the report to be of great quality because the data from this report was precisely the basis for a complete discussion today's discussion of this serious problem. I can only appeal on behalf of the motionor as well. The problem of drugs is a very, very serious problem, and as proposed by the proposings, many segments need to go through several different parts of the system, from the basic unit, from family to state institutions where the responsibility of all of us is. I would like to appeal that both in further discussions and when strategies and everything else are changed according to this report that I believe can be accepted, to make the most of it, that the story of drugs is not a story of daily politics but a real essence of the progress of Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73420	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. A report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2005. I give the vote the following conclusion: This report is accepted. Please vote. The result? 74 votes for, 3 abstentions, 6 against. The proposed conclusion accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73423	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, sent the Parliament a report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first six months of 2006. Before I begin to explain, therefore, the implementation of the state budget in the first half of 2006 let me also say a few words about macroeconomic indicators in the first term. So at first, I would say that the macroeconomic trends in the first half of 2006 were very favourable and continued also in the third quarter of this year. First of all, the annual growth of gross domestic product in the first half was 4.8% more than the growth of gross domestic product in the same period in 2005. Therefore, in this segment, it should be noted that the significant amount of growth was on the side of investments that, of course, we all know, have the best impact in the long term on economic growth, because later of course these investments generate both jobs and increase exports and the long-term improvement of a country's macroeconomic picture in this case of Croatia. In June 2006, we should note, therefore, that in the first six months, gross domestic product growth has been reported to be a reduction in unemployment, which was reduced by 7.8 compared to the same period in 2005, so unemployment has been reduced by 23,000 people, so 23,000 people have found jobs in the first six months of this year. So when we look at the unemployment rate it's in that period, so in the first six months it's statistically reduced from 17.2 to 16% which we have to say is the lowest unemployment rate in the last seven years, so since 1998 it's been the lowest unemployment rate in six months. The foreign debt of the state should be noted decreased by EUR 524 million in the first four months of 2006, and this reduction continued over six months. Therefore, what is important to note is that in the external debt structure, the state has made a maximum contribution by reorientating its debt to the domestic market, thus encouraging the domestic capital market, thus allowing the domestic capital market to obtain quality securities that buy pension funds, insurance companies, investment funds and thus also aided the development of the domestic economy. Taking into account developments from the beginning of 2006, so what we noted in the third quarter of 2006, we can say that the gross domestic product in 2006 will be almost 5%, and what I will later say more about, of course, this year will be recorded further fiscal consolidation in terms of the reduction of the deficit below 3%, so below the master criteria, Croatia will record this year's deficit of the general state. When we talk about the results of fiscal policy in the first six months, so in the first half of this report. So when we talk about revenue, we can say that so the government and the Ministry of Finance and all the other resolutions have done a significant job in that segment. So the revenues increased by 11.1% in the first term without the need to raise taxes. So what the tax administration did, so it strengthened control, strengthened supervision, affected some of the gray economy, and what might also be important to highlight, that is, what I said in the first part, so better economic activity made it possible for tax revenues to be better in the first six months. I would point out immediately in this segment and point out one segment relating and which best shows that businesses were doing better business, which is a profit tax which was therefore 30% in the first six months, so the basis, the base of the profit tax base, so the profit of the company was significantly higher in this year than it was in 2005, and the current and stock indices and indicators suggest that such a trend would be in the second part of the year. Therefore, the reduction in unemployment and the increase in the number of employees affected the increase in profit tax, the profit tax increased in the first six months by 8.8%, which also confirms the thesis of the better economic situation in the first six months, and yet I note that this goes on for the rest of the year, only saying the report is for the first six months, and then for that reason it is referred only to that period. The value added tax also recorded a high growth rate of 11.4% and so on. Therefore, all indicators on the part of tax revenues confirm that the macroeconomic situation in Croatia is in the first six months, and here they can briefly point out in the rest of the year, so the latest data on yesterday shows that tax revenues continue to grow at very high rates, which are therefore about 11% as it was in the first six months, which confirms that the economy continues to record positive trends. When we talk about the cost side of the budget, it should be pointed out, therefore, that the operating expenditures were carried out in 48.7% of the budget planned for 2006, so the expenditure of the state budget in the first six months was achieved at the level of 46.2 billion kuna. Of course, what should be said is that almost 70% of these expenditures relate to two of the most significant items, so social benefits and benefits for employees who have achieved annual increases in the promotional period as well as in line with expectations. Therefore, benefits to employees, salaries to employees, expenditure on these salaries in 2006 compared to the same period in 2005, so in the first six months, 5.9%, material expenditure 2.7%, interest expenditures were lower than in 2005, which confirms that the economic activity of the state portfolio enabled the reduction of interest rates, the borrowing at lower interest rates, which can be seen, of course, in expenditures for interest that were less than in 2005. The subsidies grew at a rate of 9.2%, social benefits at 3.4%. Of course, pensions as such according to indexation were increased in the first half of this year, so their expenditures by 4.4%, benefits to employees as I already mentioned 5.9. Health expenditure therefore for hospital health care 6.7%, primary health care 5%, prescription medicines 6%. So in this segment, the state allowed all these costs and all the rights of Croatian citizens to be realised in this regard. Of course, what the calculation of income and expenditure results in is the deficit of the state budget, and it should therefore be pointed out in particular that the government was able to record more than double the government budget deficit in the first six months than it was in 2005. So in the first six months of 2005, the deficit was 5.3 billion kuna, in the first six months of this year 2.2 billion kuna, which was actually a deficit reduction compared to the same period in 2005 by 3 billion kuna, as it would say, let's say in the percentages of the gross domestic product deficit last year was 2.3% in the first six months, this year 0.9% of the government budget deficit. Of course, in this context, the Government will continue, or continue, and therefore what I said to the general government deficit, we can safely say that in 2006, it will be 3%, or we expect less. What is important is also to point out that the debt of the general state reached a level of 100.1 billion kuna at the end of the first six months, so in this context, of course, the debt grew much slower than it would have grown so that the deficit was as it was last year. So these 3 billion differences are actually the difference that the state saved from last year as little debt as it should have been that the deficit was the previous year, which of course allowed a stable macroeconomic environment, more space for the private sector, and the possibility of the economy in 2006 to record successful economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73424	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. No, I don't. Human rights and the rights of national minorities. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73425	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think we should talk about such an important subject at a more appropriate time, but well, it doesn't matter now. The absolute central state-political document is this budget or better said now the implementation of the state budget logically those who voted in favour of the budget will vote in favour of the budget, we who were then against us cannot count on today to be by no matter what it is to be recognised, which is a relatively good budget, even better than could be expected, so when we compare that 1.1.2006 with 1.1, 30.6.2005. we see that tax revenues are higher by 12.5%, income tax is higher by 8.8%, profit tax is higher by 30.6% than the State Secretary of State said, VAT is higher by 11.4%, sales tax is higher by 18%, taxes are higher by 7.6%, etc. Now how much more money is it in 2006 than in 2005 for the first five months? When it comes to taxes, it is approximately 3 billion kuna or more accurate revenues are higher for the first six months of 2006 than for that period in 2005 for a respectable 5 billion 675 million kuna. Now the question is, is that good, is that bad? We see the Ministry of Finance working here, and it's clear to them that they're filling the budget, and now I'm moving on to politics. I won't hold back much on macroeconomic indicators, it is clear that the government will always boast about the launch of Croatia, as if Croatia had experienced an economic miracle but the truth is I dare say a little differently. Let's let go of the slight growth of exports now, let's even let go of a slight growth in industrial production of 3.8%, the retail trade grew by 1.8% in five months, tourists' arrivals were 4% higher in those first 6 months this year, but I would still concentrate here on exports, on gross social product, shipbuilding and clear guarantees or external debt. I said the government boasts of these fantastic economic indicators, arguing as the secretary of state said earlier that we had never had less unemployment, but forgets to say that economic growth among the lowest in Central and Eastern Europe, so in 2006, the growth of a gross social product in one Bulgaria was 5.6%, in Hungary 4.1%, and this led to people in front of Parliament, which clearly because of the ban on gathering on Mark's square cannot happen. Romania grew 5.6%, Slovakia 6.7%, Serbia 6%, Croatia 4.5%. So out of these countries, only Hungary has had a lower growth in gross social product. The main driver of economic growth in Croatia was investment activity generated primarily by investments in highways and clearly this private housing. If the truth were true, however, I would say that the number of blocked companies testifys, and here I will specifically mention the case in the craftsman's context and the Kaptola initiative to ban work on Sundays. In Croatia, we have 37,000 blocked crafts on 31.6.2006. The total outstanding liabilities of those 37,000 crafts that have been blocked exceed 4.3 billion kuna. From spring to now, 300 million kuna has to be added there. For example, in the Primorje-Gorski County you have 3 thousand 317 blocked craftsmen with 362 million kuna. In the County of Istria, 743 with 205 million kuna, etc. The situation is alarming in one word. A little craftsman, I dare say is in a worse position today even from a worker who works with him. If anything, that little craftsman matches all his assets, the worker answers his salary. And this problem should be updated and I also said in the context of the proposal between the president of the Parliament on a referendum on Sunday's work. Although I'd like him to go because I know he'd fall. It's supposed to be my problem to deal with things in a wide way, to help these people, because this is no longer how it goes. Those who are in the blockade, more than 360 days, so there are 30,000 turns or 81.5% of them blocked, more than 180 days blocked by 3,000 craftsmen, less than a month of 921 craftsmen. The growth of blockades has been present again from 2004 to 2005, and the number has been increased by gentlemen in the ministry with 24 thousand craftsmen at the end means the term of office of the former government to 35 thousand or 1 billion and 700 million kuna. And I'm going to say it one more time and they're still offering us a ban on these people working on Sundays. All this means is a growing indifference that clearly affects the weakest. The foreign debt tomorrow in a 10-minute debate. A few sentences about shipbuilding. Croatia's shipbuilding by order is 5 in the world. The order book by 2010 weighs $2 billion in 650 million. Oil has 20 orders, 962 million, "Brodosplit" 23, 730 million, there are gentlemen who, if anything doesn't happen, will enter the Croatian state into another recovery according to "Brodosplit" with at least 2 billion kunas because it is illogical that 23 orders have agreed $230 million less than "Olinik" for 20 orders, etc., that I'm not saying it now. All shipyards in 2005 were paid 384 million kuna subsidies. In 2005, 23 ships were delivered for $571 million. Oil 7 ships, "May 3" 4, "Broedoplit" 6,... 2, "The Queen" 3. Last 2005 the shipyards had 2 billion 817 million kuna expenditures... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73426	Comrade Cain, so please, this is the report on...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73427	About the budget and now we're right here on the issue of shipbuilding, which, among other things, generates all these negative consequences for our state budget. But if you're not interested, then we'll move on to something else and that's these protested guarantees. It's in the spirit of clear this budget for 01.01. - 30.06.2006. In addition to these protested guarantees, Mr. President, you won't find a single company in Istria that is clearly looking forward to me and that testifies that these large systems are relatively stable, like the Oilman, which I haven't had a chance to say a word about here and I just wanted to shout, don't privatize this company. You see on the other hand, and I'm not happy because there is a double relationship between Istria and other counties. What failed to escape went clearly into bankruptcy, elsewhere even worse, but we were not helped. Let's let it go now. Otherwise you'll see about the economic exchange I won't, but I'm going to say now with these protested guarantees. The country in 2006 must pay back 234 million kuna: for tourism companies 66.7 million kuna, for Istria 0 kuna, for Istrian tourism, you must return 51.6 million kuna from these protested guarantees, for agricultural companies from Istria 0 kuna, for the economy you must return 98.6 million kuna, for the Istrian economy 0 kuna, for the turnover of 10.1 million kuna, for the Istrian transport companies 0 kuna. In the shipbuilding I wanted to say, however, I failed, but I'm glad the minister came and to say that this year for the County of Istria, for all projects in the County of Istria, not counting the Istrian Ipsion 63.9 million kuna has reached exactly a million 235 thousand 361 kuna. I'll talk tomorrow in a ten-minute debate about what projects these are. Let's say, in the Primorje-Gorski County for the first six months, 108 million kuna. Here the truth in Istria counts in the budget item and "Y", for it is paid Buku 63.9 million kuna which is a unique case because all roads, highways, etc. when Croatia is on Wednesday or when the state budget is based on an account or shows in these parafiscal funds such as the Croatian highway, Croatian road, etc. I claim that this million 235 thousand kuna is simply embarrassing. It is also interesting to use budget supplies, so let's say our dioceses, which now require the ban on Sundays, were delivered to Gospićko-Senjska 2 million kuna, the Association of Sisters of Little Jesus 200 thousand kuna, the Poreč-Puljska diocese 100 thousand kuna, the Supreme of Bosnian Sarajevo 2 million 197 thousand kuna, the Caritas Vrh of Bosnian 732 thousand kuna, the parish of St. Philip and James 100 thousand kuna, the Zagreb Archbishop of 214 thousand kuna, the Kotarsko 500 thousand kuna, a total of 6 million 43 thousand and 715 thousand kuna. Of course, that's not all because the budget for this year provided 300 million kunas and a higher concord of which Kaptola was paid 169 million kuna 817 thousand 695 kuna and 22 June plus I said these 6 million and 43 thousand kuna. The rest of these religious institutions go 20 million kunas, I'm guessing 50% is paid. In Bosnia and Herzegovina there are 110 million kunas, 110 million 650 thousand kunas, reached by 1.1. 30.6. 14 million 242 thousand 743 kuna, 84 June, plus now this loan of 360 million kuna for the university. What really surprised me in this budget you can see as many as 200 thousand kunas paid in 15.2.2006. Transparency to the International Croatia as support for the organisation of a regional meeting, which will say NGOs are financed in some way as Governments. Okay. But that's less important now. So, what else do you say? To sort of slowly draw this conclusion. Istria didn't get anything, that's what we learned, but the point is it's all going on by momentum, the growth rates are modest, indifference is growing. On exports, I look forward to exporting the most to Italy, Germany, Slovenia but also to the fact that exports are higher in 2005 than in Italy by 29.1%), Germany 16.3, Slovenia by 15.5% says that we simply do not need to politicise some relations on the route of Zagreb I do not know that country. And that's why "I won't do mine" policy. I think we run the best inter-neighbor policy clearly always by putting some emphasis on economic opportunities. Finally, if Croatia sends troops to Afghanistan, if it increases the contingent for these 100 soldiers, it will cost us 10% of the military budget. For the end, what do you say? The charge is relatively good, economic and social opportunities on the other hand are probably not good, it's some point and maybe I understand this little nervousness that's been created around Pliva, about the sale of INA, etc. But I also understand that without these funds, there will be no repayment of debt to the pensioners and some major investments. Since the privatisation of the gentlemen, we haven't achieved God knows what, but I guess that should just be mentioned by accident anyway, and what I'm looking forward to this year's foreign support amounting to 64 thousand 540 kuna plus about 12 million 414 million kuna or a circus of 12 million and 500 thousand kuna. But what worries me is that the dividend income on the side of the country is only 14 million 782 kunas, while the proceeds from the sale of land amount to only 9 million 931 thousand kunas, which will say that there is no way to start selling agricultural land to our farmers, but on the other hand, income from the penalty rises and, among other things, because of the absurd law of 0.0 prominence. So I'm gonna say it one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73428	I thought you'd forget that, that you'd... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73429	No, Mr. President, you can't go over it because our wine industry is being destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73430	Carton's always at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73431	Finally, I said the budget is relatively well charged, but let's face it, these economic opportunities are what they are. All in all, I said, once again, the Ministry of Finance is functioning, their full budgets, but some other opportunities are certainly not what they could read at first sight, for example, from an increase in profit tax of 30.6%.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73432	Thank you very much. Club SDSS Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go. ... Don't pack anything for Katon or throw it away. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73433	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Maybe it would be nice to say at the beginning that when Istrana's colleague Cain is so sorry that I should just talk. Well, good. I'm still going to say what I imagined independent of Cain's inspiration. Mr. Secretary of State here today in the introduction said macroeconomic indicators are such that we are satisfied and said the budget I suppose and its execution are balanced. I'll get out of it somehow. What I am interested in on behalf of the club and what I would like to talk about is this matter of budgetary interventions to what we call areas of special state concern, which means the most endangered. What are the budgetary interventions through which the situation is improved in areas of special state concern. In the beginning, I'll say one more thing. On behalf of the Club, I think the minister knows this on several occasions in the last two, three years when the budget was discussed, and when it came to budgetary interventions, we proposed that budget items relating to the repair of the situation in the areas of special state care should be concentrated financially, whether it was the incentives, whether it was the social situation that concentrated in some way. It doesn't have to be nominal in one account. To concentrate financially, to concentrate from the point of view of monitoring, to concentrate from the point of view of direction, control and so on. Probably if we had that, I'm sure we wouldn't have any information that I'm going to mention here. Which I have in this material, which, which suggests that the thing isn't very good. I'm calling the next nominations to say so. Here, social economic recovery. Harmonisation of agriculture with the European Union's gains. Improving education and education. A sustainable return. The infrastructure on the islands. Infrastructure in areas of special state concern. The development of the local community. Regional development. Capital aid to the general state and, and so on. I won't go any further. And now that I'm adding up the numbers that we have here, you're going to get an interesting table where you have the next situation. What goes under nominations, socio-economic recovery, incentives, development, sustainable development, infrastructure, housing, you have two types of items that are collected in the following amounts. One item 402 million, nominated 402 million. Nothing was realized during this period. Zero. And you have another item that subtracts it, add under these same headings 422 million, realised 52 million. And now let's sum it up together. Almost anywhere near 900 million. In such sensitive areas, in such sensitive items in places where you have devastated and space and conditions of human life we have zero in execution. Of course, I don't think it's the Minister of Finance's fault. These are various items and distributed responsibilities in different ways. But however the budget is not a document mathematically and statistically, and we are not talking about it that way, but we are talking politically first and foremost, then the implementation of the budget is actually more political than a statistical issue. And now that we have this kind of data in that execution, then it's logical, completely logical to ask the question of what about nominations of this kind, what about the amounts of this species at zero level? And what exactly is there with the government policy that we have declared and very often boasted about, with which we often also laminate with regard to areas of special state concern? And when I speak from that position, then what my colleague Cain is telling me is a perfectly comfortable situation at least no one's situation, I don't want to, I don't want to underestimate. And now I'm gonna go back to what I started with. If the State budget can single out 800 million or it can single out a billion kunas, it is commendable effort. But if it is not realised in the manner of responsible state policies that will have as today's balanced relations in forecasts and cost are said here. So if we don't have it, but we have what this report shows here, then we actually have either a bad policy or a bad implementation of it. Or her irresponsible conduct. Not to use big, big words like that now. There's something wrong with that. There's something wrong with that. And that's why I'm repeating this again, what I started with at the beginning. We've proposed it again. These items are in the same function. These items are from the same source. These items are of common interest. These items are a declared policy. Let the responsibility for the realisation of what we can achieve with that money be realized. I can understand, I can understand technical execution or technical explanation. You know it's located in the team and those places. No matter where it's located. If "PPDS" is under the same title, if the interest under that title is the same and if we are all responsible together, then there must be some cohesion in both planning and spending and in responsibility whether or not it goes or goes in another kind of reporting and talking, talking about this matter. I'm going to add something here that's not a big deal, but it shows a relationship. In this same material you have an item called the money fee. So the cost of the fee in cash is 89 million. You'd be able to talk about whether it makes sense, but now I'm not getting into it. You know there's cost, it's not zero. There's a cost achieved in how a balanced way is said here. What does that mean? That means, that the relationship to the areas, I repeat the PPDS in the form where we can pay for the welfare, in the form where we can pay for it, here's some money, so shut up. Then it's easy to get rid of. But where development needs plans, it needs common sense, it needs instruction, it needs responsibility on behalf of state policy, and it needs monitoring results, and I know what not all the big qualifications can say there isn't. Because you know it can't be bought in social form. This must be done in a valid, often aggressive way. I would also like to see these things talk more aggressively in a positive way, in a positive sense. And that's why I'm gonna stay on this one, I'm gonna stay on this one. There are some other things I've noticed, but this is the main thing I've remembered and I'd like to remember, and I'd like to take that into consideration in some way. That's why qualifications in this report, both these mathematical and some others, in many places are fine. But in this place I mentioned these aren't qualifications they're disqualifications. So this problem, according to the data in this report, is disqualified from our responsibility for what everyone here should be important. I repeat, it is not just a matter of budget and execution and it is not just a matter of mathematics and statistics. It's a matter of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73434	Thank you. HDZ representative club, respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73435	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Every discussion of the budget, of course, causes special attention to all the participants here and so on and the users who rely on it. It is easier for us from the HDZ at this point to discuss this report because it is about a half-yearly report and the achievement of the objectives we set in July, it seems to me that the budget rebalance that we have discussed again. And also given the time and period of debate these days we have the latest trends, in fact already complete information on the developments in the summer months. In some ways, these seasonal impacts, which have, of course, consequences in the budget and in some ways in the overall movements of society, can be coordinated. Therefore, on behalf of that support to the HDZ Club, this report is half-yearly for this year, I would like to present as quickly as possible several basic data from macroeconomic movements, a few of these data from monetary and fiscal, but indeed reduced data as possible, then calculating income, income and expenditures to see exactly the transparency of the achievement of these objectives that we revised in July in the way that this was discussed here at that time. And besides these goals, of course we respect different opinions about it. First, around these macroeconomic movements, given the seasonal oscillations and the consequences of the comparative period in the previous year, we said in the achievement of the GDP in Europe there was somewhere in the euro area about 2%, 2.1% seems to me. Ours ranged from 3.6 in the first quarter to about 6, an average of 3.6, 3.8 as much as anywhere else in that. Of course, where happiness would be much greater, but it retains the starting line. Especially since those basic definitions that make it show stabilisation and positive movements. This is exactly how the real sector shows the real trend of continuing real growth, in fact, especially in the summer months that they have for the effect then impact on it. In the store, something industrial production is being held back, last year 5.1 seems to me, now 4.8 or somewhere, but tends mostly continue in the same sectors, except this year we have something in the shipbuilding sector, or far better results than they were in last year. So everything in this sector is showing stable movements in the first part of the year, and in the second, trade movements were, for a little while, slightly lower than expected. However, they were mainly influenced by car, car, and thus by imports and automotive industries outside, which also affected the lower demand in the domestic market through this element. There was a growing demand on the foreign market. The special increase was in the real investment sector that showed stability in the movement this year. And for the first time, we have a rise in construction activity, a percentage of about 12% about. But this suggests that something more positive is happening in the sector as well. In the interest-sustaining sector. I wouldn't comment. Something different in the population than in the economy. It may be positive from that, but we'll see. Price stabilization, also a stable price, which also affects the stabilisation of the total society through the price and rate and the third element of inflation and other movements. Because inflation revolves around about 2.2 total movements when they can be estimated that way. Here, that's a few of those elements. Now, you can argue one way or another. but the fact from all these movements that in all months of the first year there is therefore no noticeable seasonal impact, a negative seasonal impact in the first part of the year on employment. On average, on average, this rate rises somewhere around 3% per month, which, by the way, stabilises about 3%, which points significantly to employment in this year and in the last few years shows the best trend in that part of employment. Unemployment remains around 15 percent, which is high, but that rate is the lowest in the last few years. Here, in the case of import-exports, a famous story. What do the most imports do? Well, importing machines is let's say it's positive, so it's going to cause employment and development. Imports of cars from another group. We know how much we can or do not want to affect it or we cannot affect it. Thirdly, imports of oil and petroleum products have a positive impact on prices during that period, and there is no quantity that is mainly made up of that deficit that we had on the balance of payments in exchange with abroad. In the export of stabilization, it's about the same industry again. A slightly slower chemical, mesitating somewhere on average stable. A particular increase in shipbuilding. Now we see through that growth and all this talk. Whether shipbuilding is supported, not supported and to what level to support and how much it affects because it is a publicly intensive employment activity in the area. There remains any possible debate about it in future times and with the satisfaction of relatively increasing exports faster than imports. However, the imports have a very high rate and do not lag as much as desired. Although the trend of exports suggests that exports have positive trends. I repeat in structure how it was. In other areas, I think that in tourism, I only single out the fact that in the first 6 months of this year something is attributed to Easter or the period when it came, if possible, to influence, but also to sleep through those two factors, there is also stability in tourism in the first six months, especially now in the summer months, and we expect positive effects in the following year. Given the time I want only to fly a brief review of income and expenditure, receipts and expenditures, of course, in this year's revenues were achieved at a rate they say corrected because the first time the balance was placed that inside and these other paraphond accounts were so somewhere the average of 11%, 1.1% of the revenues increased which significantly indicates only that there was no change in the rate indicates or at the rate of change in the foreign base, which means an increase in economic activity, an increase in employment in that part can be interpreted. On the other hand, it is also possible to interpret the efforts of the state services, the Government, to improve collection in all sectors, and through some of this it also gives positive results. Through other incomes we also see that there is a stable increase, the loss to profit is at 31% and now we can interpret it in different ways. Through excise duties, here's just one note. The excise says Caine loves it. It says alcohol before, but it's interestingly non-alcoholic, and it's also lower than alcohol. Therefore, it could not be prescribed to that law, which, of course, we observe differently. Some increase in customs, which means activity in that. For expenditure, material expenditures are stabilised and kept somewhere at the level of the planned and planned this year, especially happy and happy, I mean in that positive sense while we can, that very highly increased subsidies and various social benefits not to list them because time does not allow on behalf of the club that they can be analysed, this can later be demonstrated. So subsidies grow at a rate of as much as 50 per cent, and social benefits, pension, health and other benefits also record significant growth. So we support this report, it's a half-yearly report. The sequel is in the second half, and soon it will be the first half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73436	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73437	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The state budget sets out the policy and its implementation of the realisation of the policy of one government, or one state. This is the third preliminary budget in this mandate, through which the results of this government can be read in economic, educational, health, scientific, social and in-house as well as in realising election promises. Presenting the 2006 National Budget, the Prime Minister highlighted its strategic goals, macroeconomic stability, strengthening economic growth, creating assumptions for a higher standard of citizens and ultimately strengthening Croatia's state. He also called it ambitious because it will increase support for the economy and investment in capital facilities. He pointed out in particular that the budget strongly supports the approximation of Croatia's European Union and, on this note, a more significant participation in the pre-accession funds of the European Union. And on that trail, we actually need to analyze the budget for this year. Although we are discussing half-yearly execution, we have already stepped into the last quarter of the year, so we have a pretty clear picture of all relevant indicators of development. We have warned in the SDP for three years that the government has not developed a development policy and a vision of Croatia's economic development with which education, science, infrastructure, energy and other areas should be harmonised. As it's gone, everything happens in society by momentum. In the term of office of the government, there was a slowdown in the rate of industrial and agricultural production. After slightly higher growth last year than 5.1% of industrial production in the mid-term is about 3.2%. With the support of agriculture and some livestock production projects and the rise of long-term crops in 2005, a decline in the physical volume of agricultural gross production was achieved by as much as 8.7%, which was dominated by the decline in family agricultural holdings by as much as 14%, and precisely this segment of agricultural entities is the most vulnerable when entering the European Union. In the agricultural segment, no significant shift has been made despite our accession to the negotiations with the European Union and the recent year of the transitional period in terms of customs policy after joining the World Trade Organisation in 2006. Out of large capital projects such as irrigation and land editing, almost nothing has been realized or even more serious about demining agricultural areas, so today we still have about 300 thousand hectares of mined agricultural land. GDP growth has also slowed down, and growth in the first quarter of this year since the modest growth of 3.8 in 2004 and 4.3 in 2005 has been significantly announced by a growth rate of 6% this year. In this regard, it was not considered that in the first quarter of 2005, modest growth of 1.8% was achieved and this returned as a boomerang. Growth in gross social product in the second quarter of 3.5 or possibly 3.6% for our Prime Minister is bad news that needs to be kept out of public knowledge as long as possible. Instead of answering in the Parliament why the State Statistics Institute as a competent state institution does not publish but calculates the data, it responds at a cabinet meeting with a growth rate for which we actually do not know the source. Maybe it's the president's private statistic. And the trend of the negative foreign trade balance continues. Although the high export growth rate is around 15%, the nominal increase is only $740m while imports have increased by $1 billion and $430m, so the negative effect is greater by $688m or 12%. The total trade deficit in the first six months reaches nearly six billion dollars, so we can expect a record deficit in 2006 that will exceed $10 billion, given that just in the second semester when the tourist season begins, export increases, or at the end of the year when more is spent. The balance of payments has also deteriorated significantly because a deficit of nearly 2 billion euros has been achieved, representing the largest annual growth in the last four years and is 29%. Debt is only a logical sequence of low economic growth and high imports. In June 2006, the highest level of external debt of 27,5 billion euros was recorded. Although the government likes to read data that the state reduces foreign borrowing and prefers borrowing on the domestic financial market, we cannot take that as a positive trend. Why? The general government's foreign debt has been reduced by 4.6 billion kuna, but the internal debt has been increased by as much as 25.4 billion kuna compared to the situation in late 2003. It is precisely the government's borrowing on the domestic financial market that generates more debt to banks and other entities on the external market. President Sanader likes to brag about certain statistics, not getting into their essence. So these days, it points out that Croatia has significantly improved its position on the global competitiveness scale by moving from 64 to 51, measuring for 125 countries. And we're happy about it, too, but we're worried that, by some very important indicators, we've turned 9 to 20 places, like. by inflation, by tax burden, by the independence of the judiciary, under allegations of the health of the banking system, at the cost of organised crime. At the worst, agricultural subsidies at 110th place, budget deficits at 103rd place, and technology transfer at 106th place. We're worried about the growth of indifference. The outstanding payment orders amount to over 11 billion kuna and have been increased by 507 million. Non-payments of more than 360 days are about 81% of total exports. More than 21 thousand entities with around 30,000 employees and over 30,000 craftsmen are insolvent. By delaying healthcare payments, construction works, subsidies payments, and the state again becomes one of the indifference generators. With modest results in the economy, it is especially important to highlight the impact of inflation that has stabilised these years on about 4%, which has a significant impact on citizens' standards. Salaries stagnate with a minimum real growth of around 1%, pensions are affected by the system of calculating new pensions, and the government does not find a solution, or perhaps it is not a problem for it because it slows down budget allocations for pensions. Reimbursement of pensioners is a good solution, but this does not solve the problem of current and future pensions. Not taking further steps in the pension reform, the government has created a problem for new pensioners. The reduction of pensions and the sale of Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's assets in the case of Pliva is actually confirmed by the fact that pensioners themselves are paying back their debt. In these 3 years, no more serious reform has been launched, which is worrying because we are under way in negotiations with the European Union. Negotiations, i.e. harmonisation of legislation, do not follow internal progress, as the European Commission also warns us. Greater participations from pre-accession funds have also lagged because we do not have projects that were visible in the 2006 budget rebalancing process. The state of the State administration and the judiciary, the prevention of corruption and crime is not satisfactory, and it seems insufficient. Getting a grip on these problems can't get results if it's done by campaigning rather than systematically. We have one year left of this government and this Parliament's mandate, and we are now hearing announcements about major projects in the railways, gasification, energy. Unfortunately, in many areas, we are at least 3 years behind schedule because some of the projects that have just been announced should have been completed and as such have an impact on increased economic growth and on the reduction of imports. In the SDP Club, we estimate that this government cannot obtain a passing assessment in important areas of economic development and other areas. We didn't give our vote to accept the 2006 budget, so we won't vote for this half-yearly execution either.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73438	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear representative Vesna Škulić. He also doesn't have it, he loses his right to say it. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of the Mato Church. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73439	I thank you, Mr. President, for allowing and creating conditions for such a serious topic to be discussed in these conditions and in this way, but... Thank God. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So,...... Discussing the materials on the implementation of the Budget for the first 6 months of this year is actually an opportunity to assess the success, but also the ability of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder: Intruder.]] The government's proposed budget gave its vision of the movement of all life in the Republic of Croatia, and in order to realise that vision it planned programmes, provided the means to implement them. All this was accepted by the parliamentary majority and the government could peacefully go into the realization of what was promised in the budget. While the opposition stressed that it was a social budget in which there is no sign of the country's economic progress, the government stressed that the budget was developmental. Now that we have an execution for the first six months, then we'll see that if the budget is developmental then the government is unable to realise that development, and it's completely insensitive to the most needed. There's something wrong with the presentation from us. Either it's not a good vision or it's a lack of ability, and the material turns out to be both wrong. If there is an agreement on anything on all parliamentary parties, then there is an assessment of the need for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia as a prerequisite for the better life of its citizens. The overall government is in charge of economic development, but the focus is still on the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Of the planned 28 billion, the ministry spent on the implementation of its 13 or 47.06% programmes, which is approximately the fulfillment of the plan. If we didn't analyze certain items, then we'd say the Ministry did its job successfully. However, analysts tell us something else. We see that the Ministry has traveled far and long, so out of the planned 3 and a half million spent 2 and a half million making up 72.32% of the total item. Contrary to zeal in going on official trips, the Ministry is not all that zealous. In the absence of a reduction in imports, it is necessary to respond by increasing exports. Potential exporters say they cannot export because of the unrealisticly strong kuna and incompetence of the domestic product. It is planned to invest 7.6 million for the promotion of exports, but nothing was invested in the first term. The Ministry here wasn't as zealous as the official trips. There is no economic development of the state without investment, and the biggest discouragement for investors is the failure of the rule of law, bribery and corruption. As in these categories alone for a year, we fell by 20 or 16 places, especially foreign investors, it is difficult to expect more significant investments. Despite the apparent impotence in the establishment of legal certainty as well as inability to combat bribery and corruption in the budget, funds are provided for to implement measures to encourage investment of 10 million kuna, but none of which has been invested. Out of the planned 10 million kunas, nothing has been invested in the rehabilitation and restructuring of industrial operators, as well as in the restructuring and development of certain industries, which was foreseen by as much as 45.4 million kuna. So the ministry did not encourage exports, did not encourage investments, did not restructure industrial entities or individual branches of industry, not strengthen small and medium enterprises, does not invest in the education of craftsmen as the most tough part of our economy. We rightly ask ourselves, and how is this supposed to strengthen the economy in the Republic of Croatia? After unreal expectations of the economic boom in the industrial and business zones, the material says that out of the planned 92 million in encouraging entrepreneurship infrastructure, nothing has been invested and I could take my entire exposure to the listing of items whose report is zero. The obligation is to ensure conditions for the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme by the Ministry of Economy. The programme has brought this Parliament, convinced that the objective of the programme is to eradicate poverty, we now see that only 29.64% of the planned funds have been spent on its implementation, and only 9.15% of the planned funds have been invested to strengthen the capacity in the area of consumer protection. It is obvious that it is only important for the ministry to boast in front of Europe that we, like them, protected consumers by law and programme, but that the law and the programme did not inhale their lives that is irrelevant to them. No better results are recorded by the ministry or in the field of work. In the item titled "Joint investment in local youth employment", only 15.34% of planned funds were invested, for an active employment policy of only 13.72. Unemployment is question number one, but the issue is not sufficiently addressed by the Ministry of Economy, nor can it when it has to travel too officially. Due to the search for employment, some parts of Croatia remain relaxed and with such trends, we will have a life in only four Croatian largest cities, and the rest of Croatia will be an adventure, not ours. Nevertheless, equal employment is not invested in the projected funds, and there is no time left to wait. This isn't the Ministry or socially sensitive. For relief and incentives in the employment of disabled people, 36.4 million kuna is planned, and only a million are spent, which means embarrassing 2.76%. Insensitiveness for people with disabilities is not just shown by the Ministry of Economy. It is also insensitive to the Ministry of the Family from where the most compassionate words come from. The numbers deny that all sensitivity. Only 24.55% of planned funds were spent for affirmation of rights and policy improvement for disabled persons, and only 0.54% for the Government of the Republic for disabled persons. Nothing is more successful than the Ministry of Family and Family Policy, and it is not possible to implement policies for children and young people, but also for third-aged people. Only 17% were invested to promote youth policy. To implement measures of family policy and population policy, 35% of the planned funds. The affirmation and empowerment of the family is an assumption of a healthy society. It was precisely from that need that the Ministry of the Family was created, but during two and a half years of its existence it did not justify the reason for its establishment. At first, there were difficulties in the organisation and these difficulties obviously persist and will continue until the end of the term of office. So our family’s ministry only gets promising words, and the work has failed. Without social empowerment, there is no stable family that will give society stable and strong members. Only 34% of planned funds have been invested to support social empowerment programmes for families, young people, children and disabled people. Without the social empowerment of the family, there is not so much need for an increase in birth, since the birth benefits themselves, however high, just as a child's allowance, will not lead to a natal explosion. In support of the Nataliety, the Ministry of Health has also set aside only 9% or 14% of women's planned symbolic 65 thousand kunas for preservation, promotion and reproductive health. These figures show the interest of society in engagement and solving.../tonne interference/... problems. Obviously, we have an incompetent economy minister, and the minister of the family is strong only on words and unfounded promises, the public has already told the public about the Minister of Health, so there is no need to waste words. Not only did the economy ministry travel too much, and the Ministry of Agriculture spent an entire year's budget increased by 16%. The benefits of these many trips do not have our non-commercial economies on whose support of 75 million kunas have been spent only 33%, there is no development or our rural environments because only 20% of the planned 30 million kunas have been invested for their development. The ministry isn't interested in any land planning because it didn't spend a single kuna. It is also not interested in the availability of state-owned land. It is neither interested in building a irrigation system nor in subsidising the agricultural and food industries, but also in developing the wood-processing industry. Of course it's a negative reflection and the consequences are in my region and my population and that's why this report can't be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73440	Thank you. 18 hours and two minutes, time for the ten-minute hearing to be called. Now, ladies and gentlemen would like to interrupt the session. We'll pick it up tomorrow at 9.30. It's time for the Honorable Representative Damir Caine. SECURE Interrupted at 18.02 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73442	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll take this for a little while. Mr. Collar, I'll trade for you in particular. I will briefly refer to the report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006, first term. Normally, when we get one report like this, one is satisfied, the other is dissatisfied, depending on answers and reality. I'll look back only on paragraph 55. Ministry of Science, Education and Sports relating to the financing of Croatian supplementary teaching and Croatian emigrants outside the country. Since I am often out of the country among our people, so I am in the Assembly perhaps more than you, only more often you speak, that doesn't mean you're a better representative than I am. Croatian supplemental teaching outside the country where I constantly insist on getting one level, standard, to... As many Croatian children as possible in Croatian complementarity and outside the country are sure to have problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is seen where there are improvements, or improvements, and it is seen because of the irresponsibility of some to stagnate. Yesterday we talked about a special topic of drug addicts, I referred to my parents, and this case certainly depends most on how many Croatian children will visit Croatian supplemental school outside the country because every morning a child takes his mother by the hand and sends him on the right path, one of the right pathways is the Croatian supplemental course. I mention this item in 55 where it's visible that in the first six months nine thousand, nine million and nine hundred thousand kuna were spent. The funds were set at 23 million kuna for the whole year, so it was spent less than planned, which doesn't mean it's not good and I think if it's done well and all kinds of business, and if it has to be thought and rational and sparse, as well as in the section of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports relating to the Croatian supplementary teaching abroad. I'm always for rational spending of funds, but we have cases where I can't accept that justification based on real needs because it's being determined on the basis of real needs I think even an item of 23 million kuna is less than it's been determined. We have cases in Belgium where a teacher is teaching in Luxembourg and... , i.e. in the south of Belgium, their personal incomes are as average as here in the country besides the personal incomes of teachers in Croatian supplemental continue to be paid particularly by travel expenses, so if I always come and say that travel expenses are not paid regularly, that travel costs are higher than they are determined and so I don't think that on the basis of real needs I can accept the justification that this item is being reduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Minister, I just pointed out to the 2007 budget, I will write one amendment if you accept my remarks that this item is increasing and we Croatia as a parent country is one of the great responsibilities that every child wherever he is born, Croats or Croatian citizens to enable him to learn, under the alleged signs of "material language". We are on our way to the European Union, it is often said that the Croatian language and I hope that it will be one of the official languages in the European Union so that we allow those who have a great chance of being good translators not only of our children from the homeland, which are priority for me both. In the hope that this will happen thank you and I will look forward to the state budget and the special item of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73443	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73444	... In the opening part, I point out that I will not be able to support this report, a six-month report on the implementation of the state budget and for several reasons. [[Specially enabled.]] First of all, I think it is important to point out that this budget has unfortunately failed to achieve the fundamental objectives that it has set before it regarding the development component that needs to be ensured in the development of the economic and overall social situation with us. Unfortunately, if growth rates are seen regardless of what they look nominally optimistic, however, if they try to turn into a real base and decrease by inflation rates then that the growth rate is far, far below the necessary growth rates that should be provided by such a national gross product that could ensure quality growth and the development of our overall social movements and ultimately an economy that should provide a better and better standard for all of our citizens. The second point is that the budget did not provide a minimum need for regional policy development in the Republic of Croatia and not only did it not secure that part, but unfortunately it shows that in this segment, practically negative trends in the lagging of peripheral regions or peripheral counties relative to the central part of Croatia, and in particular the City of Zagreb is growing and larger. In such a situation it is quite clear that we have an unequal and unequal legal development of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and on the other hand it is quite clear that some areas of the Republic of Croatia are not only enough through tax policy to stimulate but it is necessary to ensure that direct investment from both the state budget and in cooperation with the state budget to ensure new jobs, employment and solving fundamental problems in the Republic of Croatia. In this context, the issue of special state care and the return of our citizens is specifically raised, and there is nothing else to add in this segment but to actually mention what counterpart Gajica said yesterday. It is completely unnatural that nearly a billion kunas are planned for different needs in these areas not only to ensure return but also growth and development on the one hand and, on the other hand, that almost 10 percent of this budget money is actually realised and achieved for such purposes. Of course, when it comes to the situation around our counties then it should be recalled that, for example, Vukovar-Srijem County lags almost 12 times behind the City of Zagreb, that Brod-Posaviska 10 times, Virovitica 11 times etc. So the question is, where does all this go? We must come into a situation where the natural potentials and resources that we have in these areas are being put into operation and, among other things, a clear and unequivocal question is being raised, in fact, when we will address these fundamental issues through this and through budgetary means. One of them is, for example, to put agricultural land into operation. How do you put it in function when it's mined? We're always discussing this much, we're going to give this much, but we're actually hiding whole combinations that don't solve it all the way. The third problem is the public debt problem or better, in fact, the relocation, the borrowing of the state from the international plan to the internal plan. I must say that there is another dimension among other things, that the state is getting worse and worse payer and that in this respect it is happening to extend payment deadlines between economic operators and entities that are users of services or purchasers of the products of our economic operators that are on the side of the users of the state budget. It just can't go like that. We have full financial indiscipline, we have over 270 days again, some say in certain cases and up to 400 days appear... There are examples, Mr. Minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't say there isn't. But on average, 270 days of non-payment between individual entities leading to major health losses, resulting in major problems in shipbuilding and practically such situations that objectively lead to the need and need to take serious action on this plan. Fifth. We should talk about the standard. We can have a small nominal wage growth but we say again if this nominal growth pays in Croatia clears from the impact of inflation then we actually have... That position or only 1%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a situation that simply cannot satisfy us for a simple reason because for 100 euros or 100 kuna however you will, today or this year we can buy much less than we could buy a year ago. Because of all this, respected colleagues and colleagues cannot support this budget, but it should be said that there is one thing that interests me very much and confuses me a little bit. It is an attempt to create a report on the achievement of the budget in relation to the budget adopted by the Assembly, to try to balance it. I think the time has come for the Parliament to seriously consider the situation, that its delegation of powers to the Government is able to redistribute and redistribute funds within the budget, should be significantly reduced if not completely abolished, because this situation has led to such a relationship that large funds are actually being transferred from one budgetary sphere or from one area to another area, that at the same time the Parliament's will is not actually being fulfilled regarding the achievement of the budgetary objectives and the purpose of the budget is being provided. For all that, I think the time has come to discuss this seriously and to determine what to do next. And of course there remains something that must actually be indicated in particular. And this report, as well as the budget itself, shows in fact that we have some of the fundamental objectives that we have been saying when the budget was being adopted and that the proposing has interpreted as development, as I do not know balance, stability, etc., we have not achieved. And because of all this, we need to see what to do with this budget, for the next year, because it is quite clear from that point of view that the question and the very projections that we have adopted for the adoption of this budget are coming, whether they should be amended and complemented for the next period not only through the budgetary adoption of the new budget for the next year but also during the next few years. Therefore, it is clear that these questions should be properly sat down and considered. It's not about this or that government, this or that party, it's about the development of the state, and it really needs to be seriously considered and seen. And the last thing. There are several things that have to be seriously concerned, which are not shown in the budget report or in the budget itself, which is so-called. covert losses and duets related to the Republic of Croatia, where the Republic of Croatia or its owner or majority owner in certain underlying capital companies or shares and where they will have to participate in the coverage of losses. I must remind you that this is about shipbuilding, I must remind you that there are a number of situations relating to regional and local self-government, I must remind you that this is about a whole series of situations relating to public companies. In such a situation, the question arises and in fact who will cover all or how will cover the losses in shipbuilding? How do you cover your health losses? How do you cover the losses that our county and our local self-government units have achieved? Among other things, because of this kind of budgetary orientation or so on. a balancing fund which has practically not provided funds to monitor these units of local self-government in accordance with decentralised functions. I'm saying these aren't the questions I'm giving to this government or that government. I am talking about issues that need to be addressed for the future for the sake of stability or overall development of the Republic of Croatia and the uniform development of all its areas in order to practically ensure stable and continuous growth and overall meeting the overall social and individual needs of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73445	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73446	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Arlovic, you are saying that reading the budget for 6 months can actually show what the inequality is in the development of our regions in Croatia with an emphasis on the uneven development of just Slavonian counties. However, in order to have a more balanced development policy or development project based on natural values, a single government policy could be affected through the budget. And if it's about Slavonia, then surely there are natural advantages in the agricultural and food industry. Unfortunately, not even by agricultural development policy through support and incentives do we achieve it. In 2005, in addition to the policy of incentives that are driven only mainly for current production with some few projects in livestock production, we recorded a decline of 8.7%. To those who should develop prioritizedly before joining the European Union, which is about the agricultural economies of families, the decline was as much as 14%. Therefore, there is neither good agricultural policy nor a vision of the development of agriculture. Based on this, larger incentives and greater investment in capital facilities should actually be developed. First of all, the state would have to work here on the irrigation infrastructure and then more investment in those we say should have 160 thousand such goods producers tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73447	Reply to the replicated deputy vice president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73448	Dear colleagues, you're absolutely right, but when I mentioned from Slavonia-Baranja County, I took illustratively as an example for them. I could mention, among other things, your county of Međimurje, which was five-and-a-half times behind the city of Zagreb in 2004, and unfortunately, compared to 2005, this difference is increasing. Or, for example, Bjelovarska, which is 4.3 times and 7 times lagging behind on income, etc. Therefore, this is all the information that is official and published. You mentioned debt as agricultural activity. What about forestry? When are we finally going to get into a situation to actually decentralise the management of the part of the acquisition of the newly created value and income, or from activities that are natural resources in the areas where they are located? Why must this be all centralised and why are Slavonian forests that are the most profitable in Croatia the least beneficial in this respect? It's similar to water, it's similar to oil, gas, etc. Therefore, we must put the natural resources into function of the overall development of the state but, of course, the development of the area where it is located. It cannot be and must not be that these areas actually turn out to be punished because the headquarters of companies that manage these treasures is located in the area of Zagreb, and then practically more useful there is the city of Zagreb itself than the people who live there in these areas, etc. I don't think the Republic of Croatia should benefit fully. Everyone needs to benefit but they must have those where this natural wealth and that resource is located. We must finally seriously consider what is really with the natural and positional rents that should be realised in those areas and ensure that these areas grow and develop where these treasures are located and exploited.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73449	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73450	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Arlovic stresses that he will not support the report because budget targets are not being achieved. I think, Mr. Arlovic, the problem is that you and we in the House can't even figure out the extent to which they come true and where they don't. I believe that the government does not show the real situation in the Croatian economy. It chooses to highlight the facts that go into favour and completely avoid findings and finds that are dramatic and require procedures. We're talking about how well tax revenues are charged, but what's the basis? The basis of this is very rapid import growth and the balance of trade deficits in this year exceeds ten billion dollars. The problem, along with the problem of external debt which has grown to this extent, that Croatia will start paying more to pay off external debts this year than the increase in social gross product. It is not the subject of an assessment at all and at the same time the government argues that the government is reducing debt, that the debt of the state is shrinking. The problem of this country is not a long state but a Croatian problem is a Croatian debt. The same applies unfortunately to other areas. Therefore, we are getting data that refers to a few months each, as it corresponds to, and this creates an image of the implementation of economic policy. I think it is wrong and that Croatia's economic policy does not deal with the real challenges at all in this way. Debt, development, growth of operating interest, inflation growth and everything else are not present at all in these reports and therefore it is difficult to even say how realistic they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73451	The reply to the replica was respected by Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73452	Dear fellow Churchman, of course you're right in that segment, but I'd just like to extend that question. It is not only a problem that external debt and internal total debt are difficult to monitor the growth of the state as a whole but it is also a problem that we have again come into the situation that the debts we have in the country are actually paid from the newly created value rather than from the underlying capital that the state has. Take an example of paying our pensioners back. We pay for it by selling shares in Pliva or I don't know about INA, this and that. So obviously that's out. What? ... How is she not uncomfortable? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear colleague, you should be embarrassed, you, Mr. Minister, belonged to the government who took the capital from our pensioners and didn't return in time. We warned that you did it in an illegal way. We have warned that this should be returned from the newly created revenue budget and we are also warning that from this share of capital that brings profit and in which country participates in this profit should be financed by the repayment of debt rather than by the sale of national wealth. And I think we definitely need to talk about it. So it's a matter of self-reasonal relationship to certain things because in the end, if we talk about it from that point of view, then we practically retired people have done something that's amazing. We left the pension fund with the capital and then forced them to sell it in order to pay back the pensioners, not all but only part of the pensioner's share of the debt your government made in time. Therefore, let us be realistic, if you want to throw away, and we can discuss this seriously. So, what's the problem? The problem is that we do not understand one important thing, that such transferred capital should ensure a profit that will finance the activity and needs of all pensioners and not just one part. This is how we did the extra injustices in relation to the very retirement population and we didn't achieve everything we had to and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73453	Okay. Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73454	Comrade Arlovich, you mentioned the standard. It is obvious that the budgetary objective is to increase citizens' standards. Yesterday's published research results say that 37% of households in Croatia live hard and that plus 15% of households are those who lack current funding and who have to reach out for savings or get into new debts so they can get away with it by the end of the month. So 52% of households in Croatia live very hard. 80% of citizens have a hard time covering basic living costs. These are the results of research that has an international character. Last year, 92% of households in Croatia believe that prices grew too much, and 80% of households believe this will happen this year. So this data tells me that the budget didn't ensure growth, but the stagnation of citizens' standards, and I think it's a task. And the fall of standards. [[Aggression: Standard fall.]] It seems to me that every government's task is, in fact, the goal of every government to actually achieve just that for the citizens to be better. And it seems to me to be the greatest proof that this is a failed government policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73455	Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73456	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. What about the budget of a state that basically represents a three-year policy of the majority government or the HDZ government? We can see by listening to the introductions that they speak very often about certain macroeconomic elements that may be able to paint the government's positive policy. At the same time, he is running away from those elements of macroeconomic policy that warn us that this policy is still the cause of bad business in the Republic of Croatia. I will not say that this is in some way a failure to execute election promises, so I would also say that there is a failure to implement the objectives set out in the elements for macroeconomic stability in the announcement of the budget itself. And obviously that the battle of positions and opposition will be about what elements we're going to argue about, what elements are we going to highlight? Given the time I have to discuss, I'm only going to talk about two elements. One is the balance of payments deficit. One of the most dangerous elements that greatly undermines the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia. It's a foreign exchange deficit. It's sad that listening to the prime minister, listening to the introductions, we're only talking about the growth of our exports. And we agree that every advance of our economy is praised, an increase in exports, and that's something we can say that the government can also boast, but that goes beyond very high imports and record deficits. The record deficits, last year over $10 billion, and this year, if estimated by the first half of the year, we could cross 11 and get close to $12 billion. And anyone who thinks at all is wondering, and how are we going to finance this deficit? Well, of course I'm in charge. And that's why we have enormous growth and debt. The high growth has crossed 27 billion euros. So it's something that every macroeconomicist deals with. That's something our government should be dealing with. But no, negative things shouldn't be told to voters. Negative things should also be kept quiet in the House because we should not do so. And there's your answer. Yes, we have high income growth, but do we base production in Croatia or on the basis of single imports? Surely, one-off imports have a very significant impact on revenues in the state budget. So we need to ask ourselves what to do to make something change? That's when we'll get the answers. Yes, gentlemen, something's wrong. What's going on that we don't export anymore? What is going on in Croatia to stop the import? And then we're going to come up with an answer to what we're going to do to restore agricultural production, strengthen food production, and stop all that heavy imports from our own production? Because we can do that. But if the government doesn't mention it, we won't even be able to solve the problem of agriculture. Of course, if we don't mention the need to stop importing then we won't discuss either shipbuilding or the structure that participates in the ship's product or how to restructure production? That's not what we're gonna do. And, of course, growth will only be imported. There's going to be a foreign exchange deficit. Our ino duties will grow. And the government will send a message, and you know we're making our contribution. We cut state debt in currency and transfer it to kuna. In fact, we're growing rapidly in kunas. And yet again, it's not our fault. It's the economy, it's the citizens' fault. They're in charge. Therefore, we do not want to talk about a danger called the foreign deficit. But there is an even greater danger that affects macroeconomic stability is inflation. We don't even want to talk about inflation. No one in Croatia raises the question whether we have to worry that 4% of inflation is present in Croatia. We don't want to do that. We don't want to determine the causes. In fact, we send a message: it's not our fault, it's the result of the price hike of derivatives. That's not true, gentlemen. This is the consequence of both our work and the government and this House. Just analyze the laws we've passed. When you look at what we've had since the circus since the new contribution of the water industry? What about the intrusions we're taking into account the waste management? We will still have to do with respect to environmental protection obligations and at the same time we do not have any incentives for the economy that these new technological solutions do not feel at product prices but vice versa. If we're more professional in the analysis of inflation we'll see all that we've got transferred to prices. It's all in the price range. Everything. It's in the prices. And that's why we have to worry. We make inflation. Not just the price rise of derivatives. And we produce because our laws are not followed by a government that has to help modernise the Croatian economy in order to be competitive, to sustain the battle on the domestic market and to qualify for out. No, we don't care. We'd like to close this debate as soon as possible, because there are too many negative elements that are important. And this inflation is important for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we boast big incomes, big successes, we're good at some elements. But we're not going to say that this and last year's, with a halted salary growth, and realistically lower pensions. And in fact, we have the poverty of citizens. I can buy less for my kuna. They live worse. It's from statistical data. And we can read that from these macroeconomic elements. Of course, we don't want to open a discussion about it. We do not want to say that the product of this budget is indeed in Croatia a citizen who lives weaker. He got the same salary, and he's got more expensive supplies and living supplies and a pensioner who gets a realistically smaller pension. Of course, we'll pay for that vital element of macroeconomic stability, which is economic growth. And we say it doesn't matter. Third year, we can't just fall off 4%. We can't fall off, we don't want to fall off. Yeah, on average, when we look at it for three years, I don't think we're going to go 4%, when we're looking at 2004, 2005 and 2006. Of course statistics don't publish data anymore, they're no good for the government, we don't have them published. Then we have the structure, yesterday I hear amazingly that the first six months is 4.8% growth, nowhere published data. So a man would get what, you know, I'm not gonna say I'm not wasting my time. But there's something else. Where is the cause of these problems? In the government's non-economic policy. I'll only take the INA. I'm going to take INA for a reason because we have two refineries that have no development, that have no investment. We have the largest imports of derivatives this year due to the failure of refineries. But not just car-powered derivatives anymore. We don't have gas. We don't have gas because INA is signing a gas export agreement with some kind of ALBATRING, some weird company that has a fax and a secretary. All quantities of gas are exported. The domestic company Proplin cannot provide gas for cars. We're having a crisis. We're talking about a problem in the work of the Sisak refinery. No, it's not true, the problem with the behaviour of a monopoliest on the market. This is what the Croatian government's unhappiness and irresponsible policy in development and economy shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73457	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73458	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. The first refers to the foreign debt of the general government. The foreign debt of the general government at the end of March was €41.9 billion, which is less than the state recorded in 2005. During the period of January and March, foreign debt remains at the level of borrowing of the Republic of Croatia. It has been reduced by 3.5 billion kuna, resulting in higher payments for the bond. This is the Croatian National Bank newsletter, June 2006. If you think they're telling the truth, then I think you should think about where and how, how data is drawn and how they present themselves in this House of Commons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73459	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73460	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Linic keeps repeating inaccuracies about the INA. Because of the trouble, INA's not worried about where she is. And he knows it's all thanks to him and his government who sold the right to MOL to decide what would happen to the refineries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73461	Third correction, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73462	Thank you, Mr. President. Representative Linic said there is no incentive in the Croatian economy. So the government is not helping the Croatian economy, which is not true. The government has provided 161 and a half million kuna for competitiveness, marketing, technology, education, quality standards. It co-finances 235 zones with 221 million kuna. And your authority has invested only 80 million kunas in 4 years for entrepreneurial zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73463	Replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73464	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Linic, you are rightly trying to discover the macroeconomic trends of this government. This is simply not possible from the reports given by the government to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian people. Here's an indicator that was developed by the Croatian Economic Institute on data from the State Statistics Institute. HDZ power until '99. '99 and '99. gross domestic product falls below, so negative growth. The coalition government's three years of growth is positive, the trend is positive. The HDZ government is coming to power again and the trend is once again negative. ... No, the whole term is negative. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you're using, just please, let me finish, you're using selectively. So your promoter said yesterday that macroeconomic indicators are favourable. He doesn't say if they're positive or negative. For him, they are favourable, but for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia they are not favourable, because the worse they live, they are not employed, the worse the standard has the following uncertainty. Let me tell you this. This policy indeed continues to protect the interests of those who have unearthed, unjustly and unlawfully become rich in Croatian conversion and privatisation to the burden of those who have unwarrantedly and unworthyly poored in Croatian privatisation. This is proof of exactly that. If more inflation curves were added, this would be even more devastating. This, we would use trends in the world of economic policy for the whole term. So let's show how successful this government has been in three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73465	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73466	Mr. Leco, in my introduction, I said this was the three-year budget of the HDZ government. After three years, any justification for the former government is already unacceptable. Therefore, for three years their actions are without justification and cannot be justified in the former government. This is what unfortunately we are still listening to from individual ministers, from their fellow MPs as you can see it is common and remain as to whether or not one of the citizens hears them or hears about it. There's no excuse for high inflation in the former government. There is no justification that cannot reach 5.6 or 5.3% of the growth rate of economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. There's no excuse that there's no investment in INA. There is no excuse to justify the import of derivatives in the heart of the season, not the production of INA. There is no justification that there is no gas for the Croatian "Ptrochemy" that becomes one of the strongest exporters in the shipbuilding. No justice, no gas, no production, no economic growth. Three years of Croatian governments headed by Ivo Sanader have no production, there are imports. Imports. That's the problem. That's the problem we need to talk about. The problem we have, then, is that we have the result of inflation and the lower incomes of citizens. Yes, three years of the Croatian government of Ivo Sanader, these are the results. And you can justify yourself, but we'll see how many citizens will hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73467	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73468	Thank you. A colleague, Linic, gave an accent in his exhibition on the exchange of goods with abroad and the country's balance of payments. However, in our explanation of budget implementation for the first half of this year, we are actually only talking about some trends through indices, so it is said that export growth is 15%. However, the nominal level of exports is so low that if we take one ship out in one quarter, then those indices jump almost under the clouds. Let's analyze this 15%. The nominal amount of 15% export growth is only $740 million. At the same time, imports with a trend of lower growth than that exports of 13% are twice as high in nominal terms, billions and $430 million. So the negative effect is almost 700 million dollars or 12% which is also a high amount. I said yesterday and gave the data about the balance of payments deficit, which is the largest annual growth in four years, is 29%. And that's why it's not weird that, with the low GDP growth, we have a growth in tax revenues because tax revenues are charged on imports, and imports are higher by the first six months by a billion and $430 million compared to the year before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73469	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73470	I always have one emotional problem when I listen to Mr. Linic. I can see that he believes what he's saying. The trouble is that he was the unquestioned governor of macroeconomic policy for four years, during the golden period of Croatia when practically the Croatian state came to bow down to the entire European elite. At that time, I must say, for example, Serbia-Montenegro succeeded in negotiations with the Paris and London clubs to reduce external debt, obtaining a 75% write-off. During his period of governance, macroeconomic and governance in public enterprises, we began to sink into debt slavery, which is being successfully led by the government of Ivo Sanader. The foreign debt then increased by 93%. During that period we sold 8% of Plive and lost practically the last foothold of our national sovereignty in drug production, you are not aware of what it will mean now and how the drug market will move in Croatia under conditions when foreigners will determine the prices of medicines in Croatia, blackmail hospitals and make trouble. All I'm saying is that this was said by a poet, say Zlatko Kramarić or Tonči Tadic, who was never in power, I would understand that. If I were you, Mr. Linic, in 2000, you'd be convinced I'd be silent today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73471	Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73472	I must say that I also share your inconvenience when I have to replicate you, because I have always felt that you belong to the opposition, but as well as the position you constantly return to the old power. So it's obvious whose side you're holding, Mr. Letica. And I have to say that in that part you're my personal great disappointment, but good. I'm going to have to question myself to what kind of people I give too much importance to a few times. Here's enough to maybe say what I think of you. And maybe it's also very important. You know the pensioners in 2000 when the coalition government came to the offices a month and a half later received pensions. Croatia's economy was totally indivisible, the debts were enormous, but instead of crying and insulting the predecessors, we worked. We tried and we paid back the debts, we solved the liquidity problem, and the pensioners started getting pensions in time. However, 47% have grown pensions, but you see that doesn't mean anything to you. Unfortunately for all of this to be settled, a part of the property should be sold. Yeah, that's unfortunately a fact. And you see, it's basic, let's not deal with the past. Citizens today have a lower salary, a lower pension. Think about how to provide them with a better standard of living, we'll be more responsible politicians at the moment. And otherwise, just insult Mr. Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73473	Next replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73474	This was about the fact that part of the tax revenue collection was achieved by increasing the rapid imports. It is true that this increased imports, but unfortunately an enormous deficit in the exchange of foreign trade, generates revenue. However, the bigger problem is that it is found very often from the government circles, Mr Linic, not only in relation to exports and imports, that public finances are being re-organised. Which should show this six-month budget. If the revenues are increasing, then why is the state so in debt to execute... on the internal market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If these revenues are higher, why aren't obligations being fulfilled? In the previous period, the commitments are carried out within 60 to 120 days. After, of course, pension payments and all others were brought in on an up-to-date basis. You have now been in health care for over a year, in agriculture you were still in the middle of last year's obligations, construction is not charging your income for months, county roads are unable to settle any of their cooperatives. Works in the field of culture and their payment are several months late. Whoever is rebelling, whoever is rebelling from those entrepreneurs who work for a state that the state doesn't pay them, they no longer have access to the jobs that the state offers. It's also the basis for severe corruption. I don't see that it's a public finances arrangement or that it can save the rise of any revenue.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73475	Replica reply, Honored Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73476	Mr. Churchvenac, perhaps I will add my latest knowledge, which is that they already went orders to builders that they should not expose the situation from 9 months to the end of the year for all works on Croatian roads, Croatian highways and, I would say, shares towards Slovenia. They can't be exposed. What does that mean? Further deepening indifference and that's our problem. Individence is generated by the Croatian government because neither health care nor construction workers are paid, nor are people working for the Croatian railways. That's the data. So be careful, the President of the Republic, at a meeting with the businessmen, warns of this problem and says, "We have to do something." So this is where we create liquidity based on non-payments from the budget or some budget users or some state-owned companies. We're creating them. The president of the country warns of that. The Croatian government says it does not exist. That's our problem, we don't want to hear from each other. We don't want to hear from you. In fact, we're threatening the economy. That's the problem. So when you compare more, I would say, those figures around the Croatian economy rank, then you'll see that liquidity is taking up a huge problem. So when we add to that the problem of the judiciary and the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, then we don't have to be surprised that the corruption of flowers and the part of the executive government, or the people in the economic entities that are looking for, I would say, bribes to pay the obligations regularly. These are the problems in Croatia, and these problems are unfortunately not recognised by the government, so it believes they should not be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73477	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73478	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, in the opening letter from the Secretary of State, we heard about this report of good things. On employment growth, on export growth, on GDP growth, on how debt is reduced. But is that what it really is? I think the role of politicians is, on their own, the responsibility of the authorities to tell citizens the truth, even if it was the biggest and most unpleasant. I don't think it's theirs to chew on them with just one sweet candy, and then there's the people and it hurts their stomachs. It's actually one price of fog we're about to pay or some good indicators we welcome, but unfortunately they're minor. It's exactly the kind of thing that a spectacle for naive masses is being staged and they're large, crucial problems are being ignored. It's like they don't exist. That's why the public is going to be thrilled with these minor things for a short time, but I'm saying, we need to talk about what's here on behalf of the SDP Club and, prominently, about the fall of standards. About Croatia and the Croatian economy not being launched. Of course, in the inability to do so as is fully evident from the budget itself, this report, we must give recognition that the government is serving and then resorting to the only thing left, which is cunning. However, just when the World Bank announced business conditions and the Croatian authorities more quickly praised that we had jumped for several places, it was a significant leap, but when it was seen what we had bounced into, then it was seen that we had jumped into the use of cell phones and other things that were good, but they were not crucial, and they are not important. Croatia ranks in 10 areas of business regulation is 100th in the start of business, of 174 countries, please. In the issue of permits in 170th place. So much for government project "Government Fast.hr". It is located 130th in the employment of workers, 109th place in real estate registration, 117th place in credit, in investor protection, means in the functioning of the rule of law in 156th place and in the shutting down of companies in 80th place. So in these most important things, Croatia has one of the worst places for business conditions in Europe. And despite Croatia's good infrastructure, of course thanks to the great efforts and former authorities, and what is objectively, therefore, objective data that lies near the European market, however, whether it is about where the efficiency of the state, its creativity and its ability in, which provides for entrepreneurs, the results show that we are seriously lagging behind, or that we are at the very end of that scale. So it's a study used by the government itself to tell us what we've progressed in. However, this is silenced. The government likes to play with numbers, especially when it shows spectacular success in exports, so let's paraphrasise the proverb "when numbers are lagged, of numbers and gin". Here you go. That exports grew that is correct, but imports grew even faster. The record reached an annual growth of 13.9% in very high, almost alarming EUR 888.9 million, only in June. In the entire first half of the foreign trade deficits increased by a very high of 16.9% or even €4.46 billion. After all, it is now quite evident that Croatia will end in 2006 with the current balance of payments deficit and deficit, which is for the first time more than it was in 2001. But the worst part is as many citizens as they create, as much as they create companies, corporations, the state still spends, and that's also one of our bigger ones, or I'd say the biggest problems. There's been an increase in one-off state spending. The government debt has increased and is now around 120 billion kuna. It's alarming stuff. We talked yesterday about addicts, about addiction, about cancer-scarpment Croatia. However, it would be interesting to see who they are or how this state is unable to create good business conditions which are now objective in this study doing business, which is publicly published, probably Croatia may, even on these conditions, given the place where we agreed to express what kind of appeal we made last year when we were also in a worse place and to remind you last year only Croatia and Guatemala complained about the results. And you see... [[- What about France?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73479	Please, let Mrs. Representative speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73480	So the question is who are you laughing at right now, Mr. Minister, who is joining it and under what conditions to the state budget. Now, a fellow Churchman has been replicating the alarming situation under the law and on the basis of a contract the state owes everything to. So the commitments taken are not fulfilled. It's also visible the same... Legally created obligations and agriculture, which is particularly sensitive to our country and to many of those who live or are granted grants and are not paid. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] On the other hand, big projects that are so pompously announced, what about them? What about the National Programme for the Reconstruction and Modernization of the Fishing Fleet? All the bells were released, the state hasn't even paid its 30% kuna yet. And these people are in big trouble right now. They say they keep calling the government, individual ministries, not to receive concrete answers. One of the candidates for this, from Kali man speaking publicly in the media: I feel like a cheated man. I need those ships now. That's what was promised, a year and a half ago it was supposed to be done. So, nothing again. The question of good governance and success is raised as to the quality of services to citizens, the quality of public services. How much has this improved education, health and safety? Absolutely nothing. You see, when you publicly from the government boasted that all the reform procedures were on the rise, those who were checking the situation said we were headed to the land, Zagreb's to the grantovnica where we were told that we had only been subject to laws and regulations that we had received from the former authorities, and our head of the grantshop told us that there was no establishment yet, that no body had yet been established that had yet to implement the new rules regarding that registration. It's only one example, and you have as many as you want. Well...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73481	Lock it down, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73482	So, instead of the government doing what its basic business is, it creates good conditions for business, not creating budget addicts, that the ultimate goal is to increase the standard, but the government and the government that all their strength...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73483	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73484	...orientated and who's drunk to herself it's obvious she can't solve these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73485	Thank you. We have replicas and corrections. First is the replica of Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73486	Thank you very much. Well, a colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, also spoke about drug control in Croatia. There was a debate here yesterday about last year's work, and now they're boasting and the government was trying to boast of grand successes. But here we can see that it is being denied both by the situation and the implementation of the state budget for the first six months. If we want to deal seriously with the drug problem then it's just amazing to me that only below 30% is the execution of a state budget of nearly 8 million kunas in anyway for the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. I can ask who doesn't do it in the government and why don't you withdraw money or drugs in this country are not a problem? Yesterday we swore that that was the problem, but when the Order had to enable uninterrupted work, and without the money of that work simply did not, then the execution of zero. Implementation of a media campaign to combat the abuse of intoxicating drugs by 30%. Well, we know that the school year, for example, because of these high school kids and it lasts until June when they're at school, so there's probably some kind of campaign to be conducted in the first six months miserablely. I can ask the government and all of us why in the framework of the CARDS programme, strengthen the ability to fight drug trafficking and abuse drugs to execute zero. That means someone in the government isn't doing their job. I'll also get right on the line because you were talking about violence and security of protection and promoting gender equality of poor 17.7% of budget implementation. So obviously that's what you in the parliamentary majority wanted to admit or not the figures say that someone in the government isn't doing their job, that the funds would be regularly withdrawn or that you would convince us that by the end of the year you would do it. However, the fight against addiction is being fought throughout the year. It's not just about 6 months or so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73487	Thank you. Mrs. Anticevic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73488	You see, my colleague, you've made a good connection to what our neurolgic points are. Namely, when the European Commission sent its experts, police officers and judicial experts to the ground in Croatia, it literally established a fight against high-level corruption in Croatia did not begin. It is one of a series of devastating conclusions of the European Commission, or its experts. And another thing, black on white literally, is that economic crime and corruption are growing in Croatia, and that's why a colleague is precisely why you are now especially potentiating and replicating. The fact is that Brussels has been reported that economic crime in Croatia is growing. And then let's not be surprised that we as a SDP club are constantly being rejected by the government when we seek economic incrimination in order to in some way raise a fundamental issue, which is the process of punishing or, above all, preventing the most dangerous economic crime. The government rejects it, the government rejects it. He says nothing needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73489	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73490	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's really interesting this debate yesterday and today because we see how a report, or one report, can be shown in a completely different light. On the one hand, we listen by the government, by representatives of the ruling majority only positively, on the other hand we listen from the SDP club only negative sides, but we really need to take over the last poll that the GFK conducted deeply all here to imagine where only 5% of Croatian citizens think that their situation regarding the standard will be able to fix. It is the part that needs us to be deeply concerned about the fact that it is evident that 37% believe that they are poor, if we know that 80 billion kunas owe Croatian citizens to banks means responsibility, but it is not because of luxury, because clearly from this poll they come out purely for the purpose of putting an end to the end, or for mere survival. But what's worse in Croatia is the fact that for years we've been making budgets that aren't developmental or social, but are essentially the purpose of filling ourselves in order to meet a variety of obligations, and the biggest problem is that we don't have a real economic development strategy for Croatia to date. We do not have a real strategy for economic development in Croatia, we have no answer yet how and in what way to raise funds from, say, 11 to 15 billion kuna how much is the estimate that the grey economy swallows and this way if it continues without the right national strategy, and it will be difficult to do because we sell everything. We sold the Pliva, we sell the INA, we sell THT, now we sell everything else, and then how do we make a strategy for economic development? What is the strategy of agriculture if we have the fact that for the season alone, tourism imported food is worth 650 million euros? Then what are we talking about? What future do we give our citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73491	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Anticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73492	Well, you've noticed a good colleague, so it's on sale because it's the fact that when you don't use brains and knowledge and when they're actually in action, that's when crisis times come, then the budget is used for rent-covering certain holes, i.e. patching and fire-extinguishing, shutting down the dissatisfactions of those who are the loudest, calming or simply some kind of political racketeering to give certain groups to the public. However, if such a policy continues then we will come at a time when neither knowledge nor intelligence will be able to help us anymore and I think that the government is really in serious conflict with the citizens, it simply does not listen. Here's yesterday's HINA published what colleagues and point out is a study that shows an alarming situation about the decline of living standards, so it is a very relevant survey of the market research centre on a representative sample that speaks precisely about the pessimistic expression of citizens' opinions on price increases, the fall of standards, so this one bauk of indifference that has risen again over Croatia. You will also see this from the following report, which will soon be the turn that the state is again one of the biggest defendants, i.e. I owe you one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73493	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73494	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't help but think that my colleagues from the SDP are reading some of the data that seems to me from certain articles of newspaper, written media and the like, and we know how and how the written media works. For me, one of the most relevant texts from which we can read certain data is "The Voice of the Croatian National Bank", which states where the data comes from, how they process them and how they present them, which is unusually important. So for truth's sake, let me just take a few quotes out of bulletin number 116. Croatian National Banks since June 2006. Available indicators for the first half of 2006 indicate a continuation of strong growth in economic activity. The physical indicator of growth in industry, trade and construction, as well as the indicator of retail trade, suggest a simultaneous strengthening of domestic and foreign consumption. This is the voice of the Croatian National Bank. Speaking of unemployed, the same note says, at the end of this year 302.4 thousand unemployed were registered, which is 17.9 thousand people less than at the end of the same month in 2005. And also during the first quarter of 2006, almost 3,000 people were employed from the records. So from the records not of those who reported to the labour market or 10.4% more than in the same period in 2005. I think these are the relevant indicators in which...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73495	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73496	Also, let me just keep on paying. During the first quarter of 2006...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73497	Oh, good. Okay. Thank you. We heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73498	The salary growth was 2% and it didn't fall as it says here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73499	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73500	Yeah. I have been using relevant data, therefore not by the opinion of some journalists but by the relevant report of the European Commission on what the Government is familiar with. She received these documents and reports from the World Bank – do bussines, which is also done not only for Croatia but also for all other countries that are subject to observation. But even if we ignore it, this problem is referred to by ordinary people with a name and a last name. Fishermen who have competed for this famous National Rehabilitation and Modernisation Programme of the Fishing Fleet, who have invested all their capital and are waiting for 30% of those promised by the state, which is not being met. And equally, even if we ignore what we draw the report from? Out of the pocket of an average citizen who now has less than he had before and you promised more.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73501	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Ingrid Marinovic said the following is absolutely incorrect, that the government is not undermining financial obligations and thus generates insolvency and Croatian economy. It's simply incorrect. If you look at the data in the last 7-8 years then you will see the following, that the number of insolvency persons, in 2000, was 32, then 2001. 33, then 2002. 28 grand and today it's somewhere around 21 grand. Also, when it comes to the number of persons employed in insolvency, legal persons, today it is about 29-30 thousand and there in 2002-2003. That was 100 or 48 grand, too. That's the relevant data. These are data that are accurate and even when you have commented on macroeconomic indicators you have also left out important factors which is that the external debt of the state has been reduced, that unemployment in the first 6 months of this year has been the lowest in the last 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73503	Thank you very much. Thank you. Reported on behalf of the government, Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, it would be hard and maybe a terrible thing to live in a country like it wants to be. And then don't be surprised that the Bussiness report gave its report and at the same time the World Bank placed Croatia among the 10 countries top ten so-called. who spent most of last year's reforms. But talking to Vice President Klein, who is also the author of the Bussiness Report, and when you look at such discussions in the Parliament, where the facts and indicators are ignored. Here is the latest fact that the lady, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević, has now said here, that not even the June was spent in the programme to encourage the construction of ships for Croatian boaters, fishing fleets, construction and reconstruction of excursion ships. First of all, the distinguished representative does not know that it is a programme with the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism and development and that it is easier for you to follow Mrs. MPs and for the sake of the Croatian public. On page 198. The budget reports tell you that the plan of the Ministry of Agriculture was 34 million and was carried out by 30.6. 17 million and 400. Also, on page 174. position of the Ministry of Economy plan 8 million 273 thousand executed 7 million 237 thousand and on page 214. The ministry of the sea, tourism, transport and development plan 30 million, carried out 19 million and 701 thousand. Also, all the time there is a story of indifference in the Republic of Croatia but never undocumented with any documents. And I'm sorry to say two things now to my fellow Churchman, my predecessor. However, given his argument, I am obliged to say so, and I must say so. And I'm sorry he doesn't have a colleague named Linic. Never in 3 years has this government issued any credits for covering any work and for the restoration work to be carried out by the economics, so that they would now enjoy these works at HABOR and the government issued bonds that it would cover that obligation with one single reason not to show it in the deficit. And that was the amount of a billion and 500 million. And this was admitted by counterpart Linic, along with SDP president at the start of the government's mandate, that he did not know it as Deputy Prime Minister. Comrade Church, I have a document that you signed for a company called "ECO" I don't know what it's called, from I don't know, Vinkovac or somewhere to make commitments to that company, money from a jury account to be paid to VAT, so beyond the budget. And you are talking today about the irregularities of public finances when today everything is in one account, when there are no more hundreds of sub-accounts around, where it was known to be 700, 800 million kuna, but today it is all in one account and even Croatian highways and Croatian highways the revenues go through the Croatian Treasury. This is the intransparency of public finances. And the transparency of public finances when you have hundreds of bills and you do whatever you want. That's transparency. Depending on who's watching. If the payment of the budget is 10%, then it is not the success of this government, and to colleagues who say it is from collecting VAT on imports, it would warn them that the VAT is returning in the first accounting period. It does not remain as the revenue of the state budget but the company makes an account of how many inputs there are and how many exit accounts there are and for that imported goods it has not sold there is a VAT refund. But I'm saying if it were the way we hear it today in the pay phone, then I'd be like, not as a finance minister, but as a citizen first of all, worried. And it turns out that all international financial institutions, let the IMF, and others, have no idea about the finances, because the increase in credit ratings, the conditions under which Croatia gets the debt outside are obviously the results of such a desperate policy. So do you think someone would give credit to Croatia under the same conditions as the European Union countries if it were such a disastrous situation in Croatia? Why do we want to show the situation ten times worse because of the day-to-day political accounts? So let's take it. It's also about privatizing Pliva and something else. How many gentlemen have you spent in four terms of privatisation income? 15 billion. This government is practically dead by now. You sold the HT control package. Did you charge a bonus for the control package? You're not. You were expected from the privatisation of PBZ in your account, the Rijeka Bank was sold, the Split Bank was sold, it was sold, not 8.23% of Pliva shares, sold by the government because it had to settle some debts. The problem, however, is that the government lost any management rights in Pliva. And they were sold for 420 or 423 kunas, and that was good. And today's the problem when it's twice as much. INA, so look at me, it's really not clear how 100m and some more million euros could be modernized, and today it's a decision to go back to modernising the INA and that it takes a billion euros. But why? No one will admit that MOL did not want to agree to certain things because it was given such a governing right that no investment over 80 million kuna could be made without the consent of the MOL. It's very interesting that, even here, it's even heard that the state is borrowing on the domestic market and forcing banks to be in debt outside to give the state credit. Well, gentlemen, look who's the buyer of state securities, so you'll see it's the least banks. After all, why are we staring at facts? A report by the Croatian National Bank or from the last, last council session where the governor made it clear that the state has reduced its external debt by 411m euros this year, that the external debt of business banks remained at the same level and that the private sector debt has increased by a billion and 200m kuna. It is very interesting that the current balance of payments account is not discussed when the Croatian National Bank report is here, very interesting. Inflation. Gentlemen, do the cost of utility services in local self-government units affect inflation? See where your mayors are, how much they raised utility prices of 1.1. I have made a public statement that the prices of municipal services will have a major impact on that, but you do not want to say that. You can't say if municipal services in the city of Zagreb, which is 50% of the Croatian economy, which has 800 and so many thousands of inhabitants rise 30% that it has no impact on macro-economic policy. However, HDZ does not rule the city of Zagreb. In Velika Gorica. Water prices go up 30%. Well, there's no HDZ in power. So it's all something that affects macroeconomic indicators, but if we're doing an analysis, then it's fair to say that one, the other, and the third, is affecting it. But whether inflation is 3.5% and it will remain within 3% this year. Is that something that's terribly alarming if we know that the generator of that is, after all, the most sudden rise in fuel prices that we can't control. And I'd like to say one more thing. It's not good to accuse someone of something and forget what happened. Remember the law on outstanding and unpaid claims, remember the criteria by which you gave someone 40 and 50% leave on very subjective criteria. And don't tell all the corruption anyway. You've never worked out the criteria, you've been warned from this pay phone about what might happen. Most of the contracts you've made haven't been executed, but it's very interesting that the properties of certain companies have gone very valuable. Talk about it, gentlemen. I repeat, if such bad indicators had not been before the end of the stand by the arrangement, Croatia would not have received positive debts with a very low interest rate as both international financial institutions and rating agencies would have reacted differently. But it's not good when a World Bank surveyor comes in and talks to opposition politicians, so he hears a story like this that's not based on any indicator of any relevant institution. So we don't even admit the state audit data that's official but we're telling some other stories. And why is that? And who does that interest? Well, after all, we all need to work for the good of this country. We all need to say what it is to have our country at home and outside as well as to have that position it deserves. But I repeat, which of you here can say that in Croatia it takes 700 days to obtain a building permit. Which one of you can put your hand on your heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73505	Finish the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73506	That's true. And this is exactly the kind of response that the World Bank has been going towards from most of the law offices, that in Croatia it takes 700 days to obtain a building permit. That's just not true. Well, Mr. Leco, it's not exactly like that, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73507	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73508	Mr. Minister incorrectly insisted that by probably trying to deny me that the payment and dispensation of these 30% of the funds that the state must pay which are a prerequisite for the release of HBOR's credit funds. The minister spoke about how much funds are in each account in three ministries but me. ... But I'm telling you what fishermen say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73509	Please, she has the right to speak as much as she wishes if she corrects an incorrect assumption. And if it corrects the incorrect assumption that she finds incorrect, then she has the right to say it and please don't come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73510	Not only do I think, that's what people say, that's what Mr. Mate Lukin says, who says, "No one's decidently told us when we're going to get the money at all. Wherever I call, I get some information. I just have a bad feeling. I'm afraid I'll even give up.".
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73511	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Mato Churchvenac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73512	Mr. Secretary says Pliva was sold well and that's not the problem. Selling Pliva is a problem. Secondly, you said today was all about one account. It's not even possible, it would actually be bad if it were. Some things must be on another account already related to some projects outside, etc. ... We set up a state treasury she covered 90% of all incomes and that was a major advance compared to what you did before. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But yes, it's incorrect, it's incorrect that now it's simply been done to sort out public finances. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Be careful, the problem of indivisibility is essentially solved in 2001 and 2002, and it is a difficult problem that has ensnared the entire Croatian economy. We've refurbished the house by 23 and a half billion. So wait... [[Agreement: Correction]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73513	Correct, please, correct the incorrect quote, Mr. Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73514	Well, it's not true, it's not true that the finances are now being settled, and in fact, the biggest jobs in the financial management were done from 2000 to 2002. [[Intruder: It's not true!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73515	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quotation Please! [[The intruders don't understand.]] Please! Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73516	An incorrect statement by Mr. Minister claiming that the Hungarians had the right to stop the development of the refinery. It's true. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73517	Please, please. You have, you have a new minute to correct an incorrect quote because it interrupts you. And the fact that something thinks you're not correcting it is another question. But you fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73518	An incorrect statement by Mr. Minister claiming that the Hungarians have stopped development from for the reason it is made possible by the agreement on the sale of shares. [[Intruders: It's not true!]] It is true that in the agreement, the Hungarian party signed how and when it will implement the modernisation and refinery of Sisak and the river refinery. Because the component of the agreement was also a medium-term INA development programme that solves the problem to this detail. The government of the Republic of Croatia, based on 75% of majority ownership, could make decisions and could modernise refineries. To stop imports of derivatives from Hungary and what is most important is to provide the necessary gas for the auto-industry, gas consumption and especially for the petrochemical exports of derivatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73519	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Please, so far, the practice has been in this House to lift these correctional plates, for example an incorrect quote. And... It's all about other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't have a stenogram here to determine whether a previous speaker whose correction of an incorrect quote is corrected said exactly what the correcter claims. So I'm going to continue to tolerate what I've been up to now to correct and what's not said because I can't determine what's said. I can't even remember certain formulations. So let us continue with this because we will be more rational than we will be rational about what is corrected, which is not corrected because I would have to have exactly what the predecessor was saying to say then, "You are not correcting exactly the incorrect quote." Please! [[The intruders don't understand.]] As long as I'm in charge here, I'll be working on it until we agree in the new Rules of Procedure differently. Whether it is corrected or incorrectly incorrect. And let's keep it that way. We have another correction to the incorrect assumption. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73520	It is incorrect that the minister claims that the mayor of the city of Zagreb and other mayors of SDP, for example Koprivnica or elsewhere where we have the authority to blame or be responsible for macroeconomic policy and for inflation of 3 and a half or 4 percent. So far, this government has blamed the former government for its failures, and now here's finding a new culprit. These are the mayors of those cities where the SDP has power. Mayor of Zagreb. [[The intruders don't understand.]] It is selected on the basis of its programme, implements municipal policy and for this policy it has... /The speaker has been disabled./... Please, Mr. Vice President, warn the MPs from your club not to turn off my microphone. Please do it if I don't ask too much I didn't find out who it was either. [[Intruder: I did not determine which representative interrupted you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73521	... [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73522	I didn't determine who it was either, but I'm guessing it's not a single representative from my club. So let me finish now. [[The intruders don't understand.]] The government has its responsibilities. It is also responsible for the conduct of macroeconomic policy and, if inflation is 3 and a half or 4%, it is responsible for that in front of citizens. And let's not transfer that responsibility to the mayors. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73523	Let's move on. It's Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73524	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems to me that in this debate today some old and new tactics are being applied to the budget. I personally, given the seriousness of the subject, feel very, very bad about it. I feel bad because citizens thus and so do assess that those who are involved in politics are dealing with it solely because of their interest because they are inappropriately in short periods of wealth and when they listen to the discussions, they are less and less alike and even in such serious issues of something that would be appropriate to an average, average parliament or at least to correct themselves in relation to what was yesterday. The old tactics are we, let's not discuss what's on the agenda, which is the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months of 2006 but let's discuss the budget and budget implementation from 1999 to 2004. New, new tactics in the debate are obviously let's make a noise, let's make a mess, let's distract anyone who has something to say or has to ask a question. So let them do whatever they want. I personally want to stress that I want to get out of it because I can't accept the thesis that we're all the same. Some here are making a circus, and some are simply trying to seriously warn some things. When we talk about the budget, then I certainly want to talk about those topics that have some long-term consequences. I just want to look back on a few things. In 10 minutes and I can't take it anymore. For example, these are debt issues, deficit issues and liquidity or liquidity issues. The budget and its implementation should be in the development function. I personally mean priority employment, and then, consequently, that means raising the standard of living. Therefore, our debate and final conclusions or lessons or corrections in the planning and implementation of the budget should result in easier and simpler lives of people, less socially dependent and more working and capable. That's why I'm not falsifying, not diminishing, not making up information to warn one who's seriously worrying about me. It's information from these materials on employment growth data. In the first 6 months compared to the previous year, employment increased by 0.7%. Positive score. But my dear friends, if anyone agrees and thinks it's a good result, I'm not talking about the unemployed, I'm not talking about different methodologies, I'm talking about employees, I'm talking about those who have more employees than the previous period. It says in your report 0.7%. As a citizen of this country, I, as a responsible politician, think this is a data that cannot be praised. He's not negative, we're not talking about a drop in employment, but my dears, we're not even talking about growth. We stand and tap in place. It's a similar situation if we're looking at data on indivisibility. We read well from the same papers, we read from the same papers. And then we selectively silence the fact. And what's important is the fact for all of us and the finance minister, especially that the number of insolvent legal entities in the period of '99. By the end of 2003 he fell from 30,000 to 21 thousand 829. And if he remained the same from the end of 2003 to the 6th month 2006, he fell 400 thousand, 21 thousand 408. And that's where we tap the ministers in place. And that's where we tap the ministers in place. There are no positive steps. If we look at the growth of liquidity through the registered payment orders, then unfortunately the ministers are indeed, and what has been officially recorded, in a slight increase. And you know it very well, and you probably face the pressures of those to whom the state is bound. They bear witness to some who are condemned publicly in the newspapers, and most of them are silent for well-known reasons, political pressures, blackmail, corruption of many in the structure of public procurement of a state that is what it is, but it is not the subject of today's conversation. Non-transparency of public finances, arrangement or disorder. I'm going to warn you that the state has begun to introduce the Treasury in '95. A year. I'm going to warn you that by 2000, it was just a payoff, and nothing happened, that only then began the process of introducing the treasury, and I'm glad you finally got to one account. But it's also very real to say that it couldn't be done by shooting fingers, so you snap your fingers. I'll also warn you about those accounts that existed in the '90s, about which newspapers are being written today, and which will be dealt with by the State's Attorney's Office. Those accounts have been gone since 2000. By 2000, they were there. And if there's anything to be considered a state finance deal, then that's exactly the fact. And you keep doing all that, and you'll have our support in that. But you won't have the support to falsify the facts, to falsify the real fiscal situation, to the real state budget. And here we go on debt. It says in this report that the public external debt of the central state is shrinking and the bank is increasing. And that's why today we have an external debt of 27 billion euros. You're saying it's okay. You're saying it's okay and the Argentine syndrome was at 18 billion. And it's not Argentine syndrome at 27 billion. I really don't understand it. Which is why we couldn't sleep peacefully, and today we can sleep peacefully. However, one important fact that we SDP Representatives Club have already talked about is silenced. For some, some of the tasks of the state from which some of the government's obligations are met are not included either in the state budget or in this report. I will say very clearly and loudly, a billion and 200 million kuna for the return of the first war to the pensioners, the debt to the pensioners. She's in charge, that's right, I'll tell everyone who's in charge. The Croatian Post Bank is in charge. That's what we were talking about. The Croatian Post Bank is in charge, but for whom. She's in charge of the state. She's in charge of the state, and it's not here. The state's in charge, and that's not here either. You know why there's no such thing? Because that's how the minister made a deal with an important IMF face. But that fact, that fact does not diminish our obligations. That fact must not be covered. She has to be shown one way or another. I don't mind having some softer access to the IMF towards the Croatian state. That's useful, though. But I'm sorry, we can't hide our condition from ourselves. That billion and 200 million increases both the deficit and the central government's debt. And am I going to talk about that the only benefit of that is actually a rapidly growing Croatian postal bank which, according to the information that I have charged for that transaction, is no more than 8%, you correct me if my information is correct, 8% interest. Since we can't get any data on that transaction, it's no wonder we might be taking the wrong data right now. But Minister, from hiding the facts, we can't escape. It won't be easier, it won't increase the number of new employees. The relationship of those who work and the relationship that live on their account will remain 1:1,3 and will continue to fall into new cycles of indifference, new cycles of borrowing and will not be easier or simpler for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73525	Thank you very much. I was hoping Mrs. MPs and agreed with you, that these discussions do not spread into some areas that are not subject to debate. However, you have produced four replicas, six corrections and one violation of the Rules of Procedure, and therefore this is a total of 11. That's all I'm saying. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73526	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Only the Rules of Procedure can protect us in the Croatian Parliament, so please apply it. Article 213 provides for order in the assembly, and Article 214(3) states that the chairman will give notice if the speaker interferes with his attacks or otherwise interferes with the speaker. While colleague Zeljka Antunovic was speaking, there were reports of the incursions, and the replicas were "awesome", "awesome", "what" and "how uncomfortable" and all the way to the minister. You're the one who kept it quiet. Do you think this is correct from the point of view of the application of the Rules of Procedure and is it correct for the Croatian Parliament? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73527	In accordance with Article 9 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, after the MP made a statement of which the Rules of Procedure were injured and called for the relevant articles, shall be given by the Chair after the statement of objection, and I shall try to give you an explanation by using the right of the Rules of Procedure because you have also called for Article 213 in respect of ensuring order at the meeting of the Chairman. Well, I think I'm trying to secure order at the session that there aren't any objections unless it's going to be a little naughty and then something tells me that's not true. The second thing is that the representative is warned if he or she interferes with the speaker in other ways with his or her incursions. That is the 3rd paragraph, however, there are several other items that I was also obliged to give notices, which is that in his speech he does not keep the topic under discussion. Every time, he could almost issue a warning on that basis. He's speaking, and he didn't get the presidency's approval, and you can also consider him an intruder. Reports for breach of the Rules of Procedure and an incorrect allegation, starts talking about another, especially correcting an incorrect quote is said all the time about other things that I've already said here once or twice today. Disdaining or insulting the president or other MPs are also the reasons. By his conduct he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament. So more or less general rules if we adopt this behavior as general rules then there is no warning, but if the spirit and letter of the Rules of Procedure are interpreted then we would have a lot to say about the reminder, and otherwise disrupt the work of the session. So as chairman of this session right now, I admit that there are not these third but all the elements to give notice. Where would it lead us if these provisions of the Rules of Procedure were strictly applied? So you correctly warned about it, but my explanation is the way you heard it, and I will continue to sit here as long as I sit in the broadest way to say, not a restrictive way, as the Rules of Procedure warns, but in the broadest way, the right of MPs to speak about things that are not on the agenda and correct something that is not said. That's my style, so if that style doesn't suit you, I can't help it much. I admit you said right, but also admit that these seven points can also apply. Thank you very much. Now, this is according to Article 9, which I am obliged to explain. And now Mrs. Ljubica Lalic also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73528	Yes, Mr. Vice President, because I'm just reading Article 208(3) where the president says he's worried that the speaker will not be disturbed or prevented in his speech. However, it is obvious that you do not want to comply with the Rules of Procedure and that is where you violate the Rules of Procedure. I know you know as well as I do that Mr. Minister has been disrupting the speaker all along and you can't do anything on the general culture of the minister, but try the minister at least business and political culture a little...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73529	Mrs. Lalic, you have now offended the MPs and the minister. If you are not satisfied with what I have told you, you have the right to ask for the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system according to Article 209 and you have warned only one side of this meeting, and you have not said that on the one hand and on the other hand, we have witnessed it throughout this session and you are so unobstructed. Thank you very much. Now we have these 10 produced replicas and a correction of incorrect allegations, which is a contribution to democratisation of the debate. The first is the line for the replica Mr. Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73530	I agree, counterpart Antunovic, that support and support should be given to what is well done and that further development and promotion continue, and there should be no doubt there. However, the following should be warned. The government argues that it literally successfully promotes economic development through the budget and that would be good enough to do so. Unfortunately, it's not. Namely, take the following example. The Development and Employment Fund and the Regional Development Fund remained with their funds at the level they were at five years ago. At the moment several interesting strategic programmes from Croatia are being taken over by foreigners because they are excellent because they have no support in Croatia. How is this supported then by development and by success in this budget? At the same time, we had a Regional Development Fund that has less and less money, and the differences in regional development are increasing and the government doesn't even know how big they are right now. Take all of Slavonia, Gorski Kotar, Zagora, Lika, Banija, Kordun, Zagorje, Popolje, Žumberak, they are empty. What is a successful policy with the support of economic development if such processes take place and deepen more and more?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73531	Thank you. Replication response, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73532	Before I respond directly to the replica itself, I will ask you, Mr. Vice President, to check the Rules of Procedure and you will see that you are obliged to give the first word to those who have come forward to correct the incorrect allegations. So until I finish this answer I ask you to check and then continue to stick to the Rules of Procedure. It is true, as you said, that a colleague of the Church, there is some illogicalness in economic activities that are directly or indirectly related to budgetary policy. The budgetary policy we recognize and through this report on the implementation of the budget is based on some non-priority criteria. Unfortunately, the main criterion is to meet the pressure and demand of some of the groups of citizens who are rightly, bigger or smaller, feeling hurt. Let's please them, let's not calculate the effects of such a budget policy. Let's close it up, for example. Agreements with pensioners, but let's not calculate how much it will cost or how it will affect the long-term development of the Republic of Croatia, which is dependent on the budget, or how it will affect some other important segments in this country. That's what we think should be corrected, that's what budget policy has witnessed over a long period of years, but that's what's beginning to explicitly characterise this power. The budget cannot serve to bribe voters but to develop long-term and employment growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73533	Thank you very much. Although Mrs. Prosecution has not called or raised this plate for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will still answer her question, with the claim that it is first corrected by incorrect allegations, and then replica. Madam MPs, I have read the Rules of Procedure, which, I quote, "If a representative asks for a word to answer the quote, a replica, the President will give him his word as soon as he finishes his speech. The replica of the representative, i.e. the reply to the replica, cannot last longer than 2 minutes. Representatives can correct the incorrect allegations and respond to exposure, replica, only once, and to the basic exposure." Nowhere around here does it say which is the first, and which is the second, and so far it's been a practice to answer that one, it's given priority to those who first picked up the plate. In this case, he raised the plate for Mr. Mato Church's replica, so I gave him my first word. And if anyone has any other opinion or invite themselves to another article of the Rules of Procedure, I pray... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Sir, here you go. They're singing "The Merchants."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't think you're reading the right article of the Rules of Procedure. It was precisely defined in Article 208(2), and I think that the practice of Presidents and Chairmans so far was such that it was always the first violation of the Rules of Procedure, the correcting of the incorrect allegations, and only then the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73535	Article 208 states in paragraph 2: "Independent on the order a representative can get his word, he can get a word when he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, when he wants to correct the statement he considers to be incorrect, and for the replica." Where's the advantage here? Here nobody said this is one, this is two, this is three. This is the order in 1st, 2nd and 3rd. Mr. Leko sought a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and also vice president after that, Arlovic. Here you go, Mr. Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73536	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It is already stated that in Croatia, in practice of the Croatian Parliament, the interpretation of Article 209 was carried out in practice. Rules of Procedure. Thus, the practice has established that the Rules of Procedure say that first word is given to those who wish to correct the incorrect allegations. But the logical interpretation of Article 209 comes first to correct an incorrect quote, and then to talk about the replica. Mrs. Babic, I'm asking you nicely not to disturb me because I have the same status as you in this House, so refrain from...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73537	I'm obliged to warn, sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73538	Please, I have to protect myself, I have to protect myself when you don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73539	Mr. Leko, I am obliged to warn Mrs. Babic, not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73540	Do something to ensure that this House is governed by parliamentaryism. Thank you very much for that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73541	I owe you an answer according to Article 209, and my answer is next. You yourself said it was a practice to make a correction to an incorrect quote first. Please! To make the correction first, you said the practice became. You have not called upon the express provisions of the Rules of Procedure. My practice is to give my word to whoever answered first. If he started correcting the incorrect allegations first then they have, it's my practice. And if someone lifts the replica before correcting the incorrect quote, then I start with the replica. I already said that Mr. Churchman first raised his hand to the replica and he got the word, that's my explanation. So there's no foothold in the Rules of Procedure except for what you said yourself, a practice that is not my practice. Here you are, a correction, i.e. a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Vice-President Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73542	Mr. Vice President, it would not have been included if you hadn't personally invited MPs who believe that he was injured or not injured by the Rules of Procedure to engage in this debate. I must say that by logical interpretation, nomotechnical interpretation and language interpretation, it turns out that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure because in Article 209(1), paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 are elaborated when who appears and when the word is given. First, it is arranged in paragraph 1. that it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In paragraph 2, correction of the incorrect statement and only in paragraph 3. Therefore, it is quite clear, in a language not technically and logically, that a breach of the Rules of Procedure is first given, then a correction of the incorrect assumption, after that replica. And besides, the practice so far, as you yourself have said, has indicated, although I personally think it is not such an important question that we should argue more about it at this point. I think that you should accept the suggestion of colleague Antunovic that the injured Rules of Procedure and return to the application of the Rules of Procedure in a way that is first made to correct the incorrect allegations, followed by the replica not only for practice but also for nomotechnical interpretation, logical and linguistic interpretation in accordance with Article 209. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73543	The Rules of Procedure have not been injured, and according to Article 209(1), you may request the opinion of the Rules of Procedure Committee, the political system. Nowhere is spoken of in order, all formulations are equal except for violations of the Rules of Procedure that have precedence. The practice is mostly to make corrections. My practice was the first to answer, to take precedence, and until the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system clearly and loudly says what order it is, I will continue to adhere to this principle – the first to come to the advantage. Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zvonimir Sabati, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So when my colleague, Mrs Antunovic, quoted: one seriously worrying data, refers to the growth of 0.7% employees, I agree and there is no doubt that this data is worrying. Understandably, more employees, more budgeting, more funding for development projects. But one of the strategic projects that we all advocate is investment in knowledge, in excellence. I want to point out that it surprised me that so far they have not launched some important projects of education and science, which is also a worrying piece of information to me. The funds were planned, of course and secured, but they didn't launch the projects. For example, it is a network of schools and a project of one-way teaching 0%, perfecting directors and professional associates 2.59% in primary school, making a teacher or curricula 17.5%. High school, professional training of teachers and directors in secondary schools 3.56%, development of curiculum models 0%, production... Standards and regulations 0%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Page 246. Implementation of the Bologna Process 0.21%. I just want it to be for me, to say that it is also a worrying project for me because we all agree that knowledge and investment in excellence is a strategic and state project and I would like to say that if it is possible to send from this place and Minister Primorac... appeal that these projects that are important for local communities are finally launched in the second term. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73545	... Replica, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalić, come in. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73546	So, counterpart Antunovic, you quite rightly pointed out in your presentation the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures in employment. The fact is that unemployment is a fundamental problem of the Republic of Croatia, but we have not heard that the government is worried about the problem, but the government wants to convince us that unemployment is decreasing, so the secretary of state said yesterday, and it seems to me that the minister today has confirmed that we are at the rate of 16% for the first time. But in some regions, they have 30% unemployment. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no idea that this is her problem and obligation to hire. And if that's the case, I'm reading budget implementation, an active 150 million kuna employment policy, spent only 13.72. The government hasn't done anything about hiring young people, our young people are going abroad. We educate them, the state finances their education, doesn't provide them with a job, and these go abroad to hametica experts, and our government spent only 15.34% of the planned funding for joint investment in youth employment at local level. Or if we look from the point of view of the region, so one Slavonia in which some counties have unemployment at 35 percent. What did the government do? The government did almost nothing, because the government did not allow the primary agricultural production to increase the number of employees, in the food industry did not carry out its obligations, which suggests that it does not care that Slavonia is being promoted by the food industry, the development of the wood-processing industry is also not, because it is appropriate for them to export the logs, and we return the finished furniture.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73547	Thank you, thank you. Replic, answer to, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73548	... I haven't even heard it yet. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] I tried briefly and it is not possible to really in the debate to shed light on all aspects of this for me by extremely worrying about employment growth of only 0.7%. But in these replicas and fellow Lalic and... Thank you, everyone who works hard. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Who looked back on the problems of education. The fact is that without more commitment to the budget, the problems of employment, the problems of better quality education and the creation of personnel who are unfortunately weak in the new conditions of economic development, but which we still expect with optimism if there is reason and sensitivity to positive suggestions, that we need to invest in the quality of education, the creation of human resources that will find their place in the world of work in some future development that unfortunately does not exist today. But if it is slow, if it is going to increase in the next period that I believe, and something that will contribute very quickly, we have to have prepared highly educated, prepared personnel ready for that period, we need to have those activities that will be competitive on the global market, on the European market, we need to be prepared for that period, and these preparations, unfortunately, are readable from the implementation of the budget, there is no. From the banal things insufficiently dedicated work in the Croatian Parliament to the spending of budget funds where it is a priority, and stopping the leaks of budget funds where they go into a bag without a bottom.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73549	Thank you. Next replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73550	Mrs Antunovic's debate on the deficit issue prompted me to try to replicate and comment on an unusual practice. When it comes to deficits, then it's trying to say that the deficit is defined worldwide by the basis of the cash method, which means the commitments and loans that have been taken over. We remember very well our lively discussions in this House on the subject of a modified model, a modified model that... Otherwise, Minister Shuker, which is to try to install railways, health care in the deficit in 2003, and even I would say road construction not for the dues but for the works done, and that was how Minister Schuker tried to display the Croatian deficit around 6% and over 6% to try to respond to the poor work of the coalition government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth is that the practice of the modified deficit is present with the minister, now it has the same modified, not only has it not made a commitment to builders, railways, especially health care, but as you can see it does not show paid pensions or liabilities that have essentially been paid, which are not paid out of the budget. It's re-modified, the truth a little different. He's not raising the deficit, he's reducing. So I'm glad Minister Schucker is consistent in a modified model that I don't know who accepts it, and I don't know what it's for, I really don't know, except for political accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73551	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73552	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my dear colleague Antunovic that she is a responsible politician. He accuses the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia of keeping the facts quiet, falsifying the facts, and by no means proves it, and on the other hand, it is the data of 0.7% increase in unemployment that is not really in favour. So the government wanted to keep some facts quiet, and as a responsible politician, I'm asking you to say what an important face it is in the OMF, and what document you can back up what you said about the Post Office and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73553	Second correction, the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73554	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that here Mrs. Antunovic was very harsh, very hearty about her discussion and someone might think it was even true. It is completely incorrect that the state has issued any debt to the Croatian Post Bank. It would be good for Mrs. Antunovic to manifest herself in some document so that we can see why she's telling the truth or not. It is also incorrect that the interest rate is not nearly 8% but is about 5%. The question is why are such incorrect claims being made, and then when the minister listens to such untrues, he is appalled and then attacked and spoken of even domestically. That's not right. I would still like to say Mrs. Antunovic said at first some are suddenly rich, some say let's make noises, some real circuses, and some want to warn about serious things. I'd like to ask Mrs. Antunovic to give us a serious explanation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73555	Thank you very much. Jure Bitunjac is a respected representative, third correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73556	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Antunovic commenting on the unemployment rate, the average unemployment rate for the first six months of this year, which is the lowest in the last 10 years, 15.7% according to the Employment Office and according to the State Statistics Office, says it is lower than the average unemployment rate for 2005 is only 0.7%. That's not true, that's not true. In fact, the unemployment rate for 2005 was 17.9%, and I will remind you that the unemployment rate during 2002 was 22 and 22.3%, respectively, and at one point at the Employment Service during your government there was nothing less than 385 thousand unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73557	Next correction, honourable representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73558	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an incorrect assumption that there has been a new period of indifference in the country as you colleagues have indicated. It can be the same or smaller compared to the past period that you were actually talking about, so you denied yourself. You were talking about an increase I don't know of 0.7% of unemployment, and you're not saying there's never been a lower unemployment in the country in the last 10 years. After all, this government has never even promised the public that over the night they will hire 300 thousand people, which is not really a promise, it is a simple deception and contrary to the very well-founded and thorough beliefs of Mr. Shucker about the state you continue to deceive the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73559	Next correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73560	Mr. President, it is not true that in the Croatian people there was talk of an Argentine syndrome when the debt was externally generated was $18 billion, but when it reached 25 billion in your time, however, we inherited a little chronology of debt in 1990, 5 billion in '99. After the war and the porn 9 billion to leave your legacy in 2003 is 25 billion, always a child steps easier if his father leaves him something better, but with your debt it's hard to fight today. Satisfying a group of citizens does not make sense to execute a state budget, bribe voters, this is a new model as you call it, this is your new method of discussion in the Croatian Parliament, and after your replica of small Gavella in the Croatian Assembly from the SDP side and Mr. Col. Church, if you are not pleased that I am sitting with you and you have not enriched me with your presence in... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73561	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73562	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Antunovic said this government is hiding the debt. Already, a colleague of Zubovic explained well that this government does not hide any debt, but our people are told every severe judge, so I can say that you were just artists in hiding the debt you either used an anticipatedly or didn't show it, so we inherited six and a half billion debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73563	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's very hard to argue when you forget the documents that are signed. It was not Minister Schuker who invented any modified methodology but was signed by Slavko Linic, Mako Church and Zeljko Rohatinski in a memorandum with the IMF in 2002. Whoever does not believe, let him take the document and read it. It's only that much for the Croatian public. No methodology regarding budgeting, Mr. Linic can correct the incorrect allegations as much as he wants, but he should know what he signed and let it be as Mrs. Lalic says, my home nursing. However, a man must react to untruths because these untruths are burdened by this state. Mrs. Antunovic, an honourable representative, said the government has falsified the budget. So are you aware of what the charge is? Without a single piece of evidence! Without any material evidence to accuse the government of falsifying a state's crown document. ... Well, I mean, don't be angry with your colleague and colleagues, but what kind of way is that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Is there even a substantiary proof of that? It's another thing. As for the debt to the pensioners and the deficits. Well, first of all, we should know that in this House of the High has been passed a law on the recognition of debt, the manner of return, the Retired Fund Act, how this pension fund will be filled. Also, revenue from the sale of assets is not the revenue of the state budget. It's not actually recorded as income, it's recorded below the line. And the proceeds from the sale of property can be used exclusively in countries that are in the deficit to cover the deficit, and you have done so thanks to God. In 4 years, you used 15 billion privatisation revenues to finance the deficit. And it's incorrect, you can think of it as sounding in the Croatian public, the state has betrayed the debtor and is covering it up. HPB is also paid an interest rate of 8%. In the end, the relationship between the pension fund and the HPB is a relationship between the two institutions that practically have nothing to do with the direct budget and the government. And even if they do, let's get the correct information. So it's no secret that you called the HPBs and saw under what conditions it was brought in. Another thing, Mrs. Antunovic, just so you know. Short-term liabilities within one year between 01.01 and 31.12 are neutral in terms of deficits. Only if you are unable to repay that debt on the 31st 12th day can it be corrected. However, it is a little bit like this, very in recent days, is a very convenient interpretation of the documents adopted in this Assembly by the SDP. It's very interesting. And even accuse the ministers of covering up crime, etc., and with nothing to argue. And then when a man reacts in the High House, he's like this. However, I know what I felt as a representative while sitting there from a single gentleman who were vice presidents of the government, but let it serve them honor. But do Croatian pensioners deserve to discuss their debt in this way? Do they deserve it? That in some day-to-day political bickering, is that a deficit, isn't that a deficit? Well, gentlemen, you have the document you signed. You signed the document on the modified methodology and you know exactly what the budget deficit is. So all the obligations that were created whether they were paid or not are paid are budget deficits. You signed it with the IMF, it wasn't me. And therefore, if that were the case, so what do you think those in the IMF are silly, in the World Bank, to admit that Croatia is a bit of a mess, and now we're going to see it through their fingers and it doesn't matter. Another thing, Mr. Linic. So you, as vice-president of the government for the economy, should know what it says in the Decision of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Highways of 10 or 11 months 2003. It says, we will increase the construction plan by a billion and a half kuna and will be paid in 2004. It literally says in there. If it wasn't for that sentence then it would be disputable, even then, whether it's a deficit or not? And as for the Croatian Railways, it is obviously a painful point for Mr Linic because of the tilt trains and something like that. You've raised a billion-and-a-half kuna loans. You didn't show it in the state budget. Unlike such a way of doing your business now to the last June, what is given to Croatian railways is in the state budget. 2 billion and 900 are in the state budget. You've covered up a billion and a half, you haven't shown them in the state budget, and you can't say it wasn't a deficit in 2003. You can't say that! Because obligations and wages were created, and works were done in 2003 and you know well that not only according to the modified methodology, why are loans in the state budget recorded in the year they were spent and not how they return? Because the cost of these loans in that year has an economic effect. And that's why he's signing up like that. And you know well that you have raised 3 loans for Croatian railways from a billion and a half kuna and have not recorded them anywhere. Reimbursement of these loans was to go as a cost during a future period. Same as a billion and a half kuna for the renovations that went away. Where are those bonds issued? Then began the fashion exchange in both Požega and Požega County. But first they were betrayed by the government. This government has not issued any bonds in three years and has not reprogrammed any obligations. But I'm saying, this is not a good way to argue. It's not good. No matter who it went to or who it didn't work out for. We need to know who signed what of us and even the circumstances that were at that time, why did he sign them? However, it is not correct and counterpart Linic loved especially at press conferences to accuse and even for crime without any support. So it was the other day, although all the guarantees that were now activated in Požega-Slavon County were issued during his term of office. Not for the term of office of the rule of Eve Sanader. But someone else is responsible. And unfortunately, if that's the way we're going to discuss it, today we're not even discussing the implementation of the state budget, but we're taking everything that... But why didn't we discuss the implementation of the state budget? Because they have positive shifts, because there are good things and it's hard to admit. And that's why the SDP gentlemen are having this debate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73565	The answer to, in fact, the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Slavko Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73566	An incorrect statement about a signed document with the IMF, a modified methodology does not exist, was invented by Minister Shuker himself and you heard him observe it. So it's a pure lie. Because at the same time the debts of today's railways are not in the deficit, not the debts of the Croatian roads and highways in the deficit and the debts. The health debts of the deficit haven't arrived. So this time the modified method for Minister Shuker is simple, the deficit must be below three percent.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73567	Minister, not one word more throw. I won't let anyone do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73568	So something we have to understand, we have different attitudes, we have the right to state them, and whoever listens will choose methodologies and truths, not because Minister Schuker can yell out of the bench and because he's gathering. Therefore, as long as I have a parliamentary mandate, I will talk about facts and citizens will assess how accurate they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73569	Thank you. Next correction by the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73570	They are incorrectly quoted as trying to explain Mr. Shuker, although he did not actually say anything about how the state carried out that transaction to pay for pensioners the Croatian Post Bank with a loan it apparently gave to the pension fund and no one seems to have guaranteed the loan. That's what it's like to conclude from this whole story. But for the tenth time in this House, we have asked that question and for the tenth time, apart from the re-throwing of mud on the last government, on the basis of completely unfounded claims or in most of the unfounded claims, we have not received an answer and the fact is and it is true that the government debt to the pensioners is paid back by loans and by increasing the debt, the total debt of the state, from the loan raised by the Post Office and from it was paid out of that first war relating to the first six months of the budget period.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73571	That's no longer an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73572	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister said earlier that the budget is the most important document of the state and has rightly been approved by fellow minutes, but in fact it is not seen by anything that this is the most important document. Here with the Minister of Finance who regularly attends here and for that I confess to him is the present State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and there is no one else. The state budget is the budget and all ministries and there should also be a debate on the work of these ministries, on the achievement of certain policies, and there are not only ministers here but there are no state secretaries. But not only does the government treat the state budget, but so does the Croatian Parliament. Only two boards of the Croatian Parliament discussed the state budget, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. No other committee would have had anything to see in this budget, so I will only list some of the most interesting and most tangible things that individual committees should debate. For example, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction should be interested to see an economic and entrepreneurship item of 815 million kuna reached with only 28.43%. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture should be interested that the item of technological research and development activities has been achieved with only 19.53% and the item of international scientific and technical cooperation with only 16%. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health should be interested in the situation at least in the health system and poor employment developments and the Committee on Regional Area and Local Self-Government should be interested that the Regional Development Fund of 115 million kuna has spent only 3.7 million kuna and 3.28% in this budget and that units of local self-government, their debts and their regular functioning, are financed with 18 items of reserves. State reserves need to be intervened in something that's unpredictable. This is a question of the funding model of local self-government units and the Committee on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government should discuss this. Thus, here in the Croatian Parliament, we gave our pain a rather light, casual relationship with this most important document of the state. I will talk about two things and this is a deficit or deficit of the state budget and external debt, or two requirements that have been the demands of the international community, whether the Copenhagen criteria, or the public's demands, which are then because the requirements are somehow trying to bridge at least at some first level and in fact the damage that is happening is greater than the benefits that are achieved in such a way. First question of deficits. The secretary of state who explained the budget here, which is, of course, repeated, and the minister is talking about how the deficit is 3% and how we have entered the European Union criterion, but it is really a question of whether this deficit is 3% if only the health ministry's obligations, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Croatian hospitals that are reported almost weekly to be 4 billion kunas, if they are not here because they have arrived and these are debts as you know over 300 days. If only 4 billion kunas amounted to 2% of gross national product and already the deficit is not 3% but is 5%, not to mention the commitments made. I have here a survey of the Institute of Public Finance which analyzed the state's commitments at the end of the year, so according to the Institute of Public Finance, total liabilities were made in 1999 at the end of that year 9 billion 586 million, which accounts for more than 4.5% of the gross national product, and today, especially that year when it was smaller. These unsettled and made commitments in 2001 and 2002 are reduced to 506 and 565 million kuna and then their growth begins again. So they are already 956 million kuna at the end of 2003, which is half a percent of the gross national product and in 2004 the last year for which I have the data is a billion and 290 million kuna. I don't have any data for 2005. I don't have the data either for the first half of 2006 but these are the questions we should discuss. Because these unsettled and accomplished liabilities affect indifference, internal debt and government debt are multiplied by a factor of two, three or four, depending on how it is viewed and thus the overall indifference in society or in the state is increased. Individence of course carries with it all possible problems, bankruptcy, corruption, corrupt behavior, etc. Therefore, that announcement, or that information with which the Government is rising, should be argued that there is no shadow on this information on the government budget deficit within the framework of the European Union's request. One of the conditions for accession... is that the budget deficit is less than 3%, but this, therefore, throws one shadow at that question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it would be good if the data that we get here when we adopt the budget and the report on the implementation of the budget were very clearly reflected, referred to this question. What about the dues? Not to be a question of political bickering but to make all the commitments clear from the previous year, if possible from the previous accounting period, so half-yearly, are clearly presented to the Croatian Parliament. Well, then there won't be a debate that they're this big or that big. And tomorrow, we're going to have an article in the paper right away, which, therefore, repeats itself cyclically, almost every week that healthcare debts have reached over 300 days, and you must have reached more than 4 billion kunas. And the second question I want to talk about is the foreign debt issue. The government is talking about the state's external debt being reduced in the first 4 months by 524m euros because this is the result of the country's borrowing orientation on the domestic financial market. This is what I talked about here on several occasions and when you look at the Government's report, so what we have on the benches, who bought the government's foreign bonds and which the government's banks short-term loans, then you will see that there is no speech about the foreign domestic debt because these are Erste and Steiermarkische bank, Splitska banka, Zagrebačka banka, Privredna banka Zagreb, Raiffeisen banka, etc. The list of banks that talk about short-term borrowing is also somewhat longer, but also speaks about foreign banks. Therefore, it is an absolutely guilty, pointless thesis to reduce external debt because it is actually increasing the debt of the state, and it is indirectly turning into an increase in the external debt of banks. In the conditions in which we live today, therefore the international market, etc., it is absolutely irrelevant whether this debt is external or whether it is an internal debt. It's important that the state increases its debt, and that's only because it created a public picture of the state's external debt being too large, so the government is trying to mask it by increasing the fake internal debt, which is de facto the external debt of the state again. And of which, of course, it's no big use to us because the interest we have in this way is bigger than the interest we could get by borrowing abroad. For loans from abroad that we sometimes have to raise interest rates are Libor plus 1% which ends at 3% or 4% somewhere, and our domestic banks, so on. The domestic banks, and we know that unfortunately we don't have them. We only have 10% of domestic banks for short-term loans and long-term loans charge us 6% interest. Who pays that difference of 2%? Of course, that difference pays the state budget, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore, these are reasons why I believe that these reports should be much clearer in this regard. That there is no political outwitting, and that is, of course, why I will not accept this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73573	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Krunoslav Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73574	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and the chief state treasurer. Mr. Collar MP incorrectly cited the external debt because right here from the report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2006 is very clear, reviewed, logical and convincing that uses international standards, precisely which we have accepted and which we are increasingly introducing. And along with Mr. Minister Shuker, there is also the state's chief treasurer, Mrs. Vesna Orlando and the assistant minister. So the strongest composition of the Ministry of Finance is right here for the most important topic that can be discussed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73575	Next correction, honourable representative Željko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73576	Mr. President and Mr. Secretary. I am correcting a respected colleague and his alleged that the deficit of the state budget is 3% recorded in, as a condition of entry into the European Union. It is again one of the many incorrect allegations that tries to deceive the public in the sense that, look, even for that reason, we will not be able to enter the European Union. Instead of this extraordinary result, the unexpected result of the state deficit, the state budget of 3% appears to be a seduction of order both in income and in the expenditure side of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73577	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73578	A colleague, Nenadic, was injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 214 because he did not correct my incorrect allegations. I did not say that the deficit is a 3% condition for entering the European Union, but that it is one of the 3 conditions for entering the European Monetary Area, therefore entering the EMU. Therefore, there was no need to correct anything in that sense. I didn't say that and it really doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73579	It's an old thing. It is likely that the chairman should again remember and follow each word carefully and determine whether it is true or false. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73580	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there you go. Representative Radosh said there's a 3% shadow on this deficit. There's no reason to be a shadow. This government managed to cut the deficit from 6.3 to 3% in 3 years. So she made a big effort, a big fiscal adjustment. You obviously have a problem with the transparency of this budget. Let's just remember how you did it. The 6.3% deficit you didn't want to admit, you didn't put all the obligations you needed to put in and calculate it correctly. So, you're bothered by the transparency of this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73581	And respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73582	Mr. President, I'd like to make two things right. First of all, the minister here is not alone in the presentation of the budget, but there are also the secretary of state at the Ministry of Agriculture and the head of the State Treasury. Secondly, in its criticism of the implementation of the budget of counterpart Rados, as a former minister, would have to know that certain positions, especially the capital of projects, are used mainly in the second half of the year, mainly running costs and are being prepared for projects to be paid in the second half of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73583	Replica, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73584	Col. Radoš pointed out the weakness of the debate on this most important point because there are no other members of the government besides the members present. So let me tell my colleague about our seriousness, our Parliamentarian. How is the debate on this one of the most important points, which is otherwise the point of work policies and results, being held? Well, you see, it started at 17.02 yesterday. They only spoke four clubs. I gotta say, the record was the HDZ club that halved the debate, didn't use 15 minutes for speed, it didn't. Also, it also means it's the club's responsibility to talk about it. But one more thing, how many MPs were speaking. How many MPs are there? These hands are enough. And that's just from the SDP club, the HSS, and here you are. And IDS. [[Intruder: I IDS.]] You weren't talking. ... All right, come on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm not talking about clubs, I'm talking about MPs. Four clubs were talking. So, only the opposition spoke. No HDZ agent has spoken. And now maybe I'll tell the Minister. Imagine, the great successes of the government, the extraordinary results, all pride themselves, and no one in the Parliament wants to talk about it. So much so that we try to tell about our seriousness as we discuss this. Because it's only important to silence the opposition and not go with negative news towards voters. This way, we will obviously not solve problems in Croatia, and we have made a really ugly contribution to the debate on such an important topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73585	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73586	I agree, Mr. Representative, with what you said. I don't think the debate should have started last night at the time. The President of the Parliament, or the President, has not injured the Rules of Procedure for a single hour. But it is actually a matter of logic that such an important document as the state budget provides a proper place and proper attention. I was supposed to speak on behalf of the club yesterday, I had a ready debate, but I gave up speaking at 15 to 6 and after that were called individual representatives. Of course, 7.8 were already on their way to the game, which is not a sin. I hope so, especially since the game was good. And of course, what you're saying about the minister's representation, or the secretary of state, is equally about the interest of the other MPs, shows in fact that we are referring to such an important document, and that is where I repeat what I said, we do not apply in the right way. And then, actually, when we're left with the real problem debate on behalf of the clubs, we're left with replicas or often correcting incorrect allegations, like the replicas that I just experienced. So there's no correcting an incorrect quote, but you can't even go with a replica. So that I can no longer answer and it is absolutely in some way a deformation of our business provisions at all, especially on such an important topic as the state budget of counterpart Linic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73587	And this item of the agenda Report on the implementation of the State budget for the first half of 2006 has always been the finance minister who was and was the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance in all the discussions on such reports. They were never members of the government, of the entire government. So that's one thing. And secondly, as far as the board is concerned. So the committees, the parent board, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget he held his session, discussed it, other interested committees, the presidents of interested committees could, that's their thing to schedule the session. As for the timing of the debate, all topics are important. I can't rank and move some topics to other times. If it hadn't been put on then they would have said why not the report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund, the Council's report on national education, that it was placed elsewhere. Dear representative Željka Antunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73588	Well, I, my colleagues, Radosha, have a very serious replica and a serious objection. I think he was seriously wrong when he was talking about implementing the State budget for the first six months of this year. I conclude by the reactions and corrections on the other hand, which were the corrections of what he was not talking about at all. Obviously, it would have been better if my colleague Rados had talked about that bloody job he was doing as a minister in the former government when he pulled out and reconstructed the crimes from a period of bloody Croatian period.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73589	Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73590	The period in which people lost their lives...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73591	My colleagues don't speak now in the replica, in, don't speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73592	...and the representatives of the government steal...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73593	My colleague, please, Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73594	He should have talked about...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73595	Wait, buddy. Guys, stop! In the replica, in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73596	I'm going to the replica. I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73597	I didn't give you my word. Stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73598	So stop the time for me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73599	Stop. If you're responding to a replica then...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73600	I answer to the line, I object.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73601	Listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73602	A very serious replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73603	Don't come in my word, listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73604	I'm listening, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73605	You cannot comment then in the replica or reply to the replica whether or not it was correct, other MPs in the earlier phase were correcting incorrect allegations. It's something else entirely. Replica, limit yourself to the quote that you're replicating to Representative Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73606	The main objection and the main replica I've already made. But now I'm gonna keep going. Namely, a colleague of Rados spoke about some of the items of the budget that were not intended, and he also spoke of those whose execution failed. A colleague of Radoš also spoke of unspeakable achievements, but it seems to me in a rather mild way. Namely, no matter what it is that some do not like it, but the inability to get us as representatives to get the exact data from where it is, is where the obligation is made if it is not implemented through the budget, if it is not shown unpaid and the commitments in the budget are made. If we can't get that, there's nothing left for us, colleague Radosh, but to talk about deliberate cover-up. And the intentional concealment of the exact facts is indeed called falsification.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73607	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73608	Thank you, dear colleague Antunović, for being able to respond to something I couldn't answer because, according to our Rules of Procedure, if I didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I couldn't because my colleagues were speaking under the correcting of an incorrect quote that I wasn't talking about at all. So my colleague Peronja reiterated what I said was therefore a nominal reduction in external debt. But I said it was actually an increase and an external debt. Therefore, it was not a correction to an incorrect assumption. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73609	That's what we've already discussed, and we've finished discussing whether or not it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73610	I'm sorry, I mean, she's never been limited, she's limited the contents of the replica. Then don't do that to me either.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73611	You can't do that, colleague Radosh. Be kind. You can't comment on it now whether it was before or wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73612	But that's what counterpart Antunovic was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73613	And I warned her that it couldn't be expressed in the form of replication and response to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73614	So I answer to her line. I can't talk about anything else she didn't talk about. She talked about not commenting on my speech but saying something else that had nothing to do with my speech. And I'm commenting. So my colleague Majdenic said that I am sorry that the budget is transparent that, of course, it has nothing to do with what I was talking about. I have just demanded the transparency of the budget in that part when it comes to the commitments made that could not be manipulated. And she accuses me of being unhappy about the budget... transparent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore an incorrect way to use the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73615	Well, colleague Rados, not now, why you are now answering, you are responding to the replica of colleague Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73616	Because that's what my colleague Antunovic told me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73617	You can't, you can't comment, comment on representative Majdenić's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73618	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73619	That's not working. Be nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73620	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73621	We're going to a five-minute club debate. IDS representative club, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73622	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, uh... I'm at 7:00 yesterday at 5:30, and this morning it works for three seconds because I'm late, I lost my turn, but good now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I also think is unserious to replicate, even irresponsiblely within my own club, but let's let it go now. It's a shame there's no gas on the Croatian pumps in 2006. This should be investigated even though INA probably does so because on gas when exported with some small fee it earns more than at home. It's a shame 50% of the gas goes into the air and burns down in our refineries and nothing. So after Milka Planinc, after a pair of odd, after a lack of coffee, a powder and so on for the first time in 25 years there's no gas. There was a war there was gas. He's gone today and it's a shame. So what's next? There's a pick-up coming up. Then we sell 15% of INA instead of thanking someone for not having that gas. But now let's go to this budget. Clearly, whoever voted for the budget will vote for execution. We who are not going to have to notice that income from taxes in this year is higher than the past by 12.5%. Income tax is up 8.8%. The profit tax is 30.6% higher. The VAT is higher income by 11.4%. Sales tax is up 18%. The excise duties are up 7.6%. Now, based on this data, the government boasts fantastic economic indicators, claiming there was never more employees. Had never been more economic growth, however, it is also true that this economic growth is the lowest of all countries in Central and Eastern Europe. And yesterday I said in Bulgaria for 2006, growth for the first 6 months is 5.6%, in Hungary only 2.4%, and that's one reason why people went to the squares in front of Parliament, which is why we can't do because of the ban on gathering in Mark's square. There is more growth in Romania than in Croatia, Slovakia, Serbia even. There is only 4.4% in Croatia. That the truth on the other hand is far blacker and the number of blocked companies. I'm not talking about legal people, I'm going to talk about twists first. Especially this hurts because that condition is the worst. In Croatia there are 37,000 blocked crafts on 31.6.2006. Total outstanding liabilities are 4.3 billion kuna, and since summer they have increased by 300 million kuna. The situation is alarming, gentlemen. I even dare say that a small craftsman is in a worse position than a worker who works with him because he corresponds to all of his assets, unlike a workman who corresponds to his salary. Those who are blocked over 365 days are 30,000. More than 180 days are about 3,000. And if you push through the ban on Sundays, I'm afraid by the end of next year we're going to increase that figure of 37,000 to 45 grand. The church should also take care of this, not just how well it will receive 300 million kuna from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73623	But is this a good fellow Cain...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73624	What's most interesting, don't interrupt me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73625	Is that in a causal relationship with...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73626	Because my time is running out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73627	By carrying out the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73628	How isn't the state budget doing that?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73629	Is that an execution? The national budget for 2006? [[/Intruder: I'm sure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73630	Six, that's right. It sure is. What's also Interestingly these are the protested guarantees. [[Intruder: Very interesting that.]] Look out, why am I saying this? Because there is no company from Istria here that personally delights me, but what makes a man most angry is that from 1.1 to 30.6.2006, the area of Istria County does not exactly amount to a million 235 thousand 361 kuna. I'm not going to talk about exports, but I'm going to talk about an interesting item in the use of budget supplies where out of 20 million kuna groups that are now looking for a ban on Sundays went 6 million kunas, 43,000 715 plus 169 thousand 817 million kunas from the state budget. So I think that the Capitol over such a single measure should at least imagine being forced, not simply, by, uh, tens of thousands of small crafts into bankruptcy. As far as these protested state guarantees are concerned, the state is due back in 2006 for the first 6 months of 234 million kuna. Tourism, 66.7 million kunas, doesn't pay back anything to Istrian companies. The economy 51 million, the Istrian companies don't get anything back.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73631	Okay, thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73632	The economy of 98 million. What about what you took away my time?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73633	I didn't take anything from you. You were saying, at the same time you were talking while I was talking. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73634	And let me just say that for the end of this shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73635	Correction of an incorrect quote, you no longer have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73636	Thank you, Mr. Caine. I'm correcting my fellow Caine's misstatement that the number of blocked companies is showing a poor state in the country. If you're looking at these companies a little bit, it's not true. If you're watching businesses then you'll see that there are too many poor companies of wealthy owners. Very much so. See how the owners get rich, and then you'll see what's going on. Finally, let's remember the Prime Ministers of the former government and Victor Lance, the best example.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73637	And another correction, honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Turn yourself on when you're talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73639	I'm correcting my fellow Caine's misquote when he spoke of the church's care of incomes. So if the church were to worry about more income, then she'd ask for Sundays, not Sundays. So the church doesn't care about income, it takes care of the rights of man and the rights of believers, which is perfectly legal and legitimate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73640	For the club HSP, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73641	The report on the implementation of the budget for the first half of this year shows all the trends that we have warned about in previous years. It is crucial and it is a constant of the work of this government, in all these years of mandate is that external debt is growing. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister can carry out various evidence and extract various statistics, but the external debt of the Republic of Croatia is growing and it is a key fact that all must bear in mind when we talk about the implementation of the budget and the macroeconomic indicators of the Republic of Croatia. Foreign debt increases primarily in banks, of course, in order to favour the domestic market of funds they take from abroad and thus encourage imports and purchases. However, banks are increasing external debt for another reason because they are in debt on the international market to service state borrowing on the domestic market, these are facts. This is where the guarantees are displayed. The guarantees will largely become debt. If we continue to comply with these guarantees and with the companies that are given them, the way the Government refers to the smugglers with which the total cabbage is in financing and in business. I believe that a large part of that cabbage in the business and the financing of smuggling comes from cooperative companies and from their contracts, so I asked the Minister of Economy to brief me on who the cooperatives are and how they operate. That's why I'm saying it, Mr. Minister, because it will eventually be covered by our taxpayers, or your ministry. In negotiations with the European Union, of course, the most pressing of all is the state support, and when a man knows that a large part of these support goes to the squares where strange and unusual contracts with cooperatives are concluded and that our taxpayers later cover it, then we have to wonder if this is really a correct path. At the same time, we do not have the possibility of reducing excise duties to fuel our shipowners, we do not have the possibility of funding a whole series of projects that would trigger the domestic economy but in certain situations we are really dealing with wastefully. By the way, in Greece, no smuggling is co-financed, but boaters are encouraged to build, and then the smugglers get along as well as they know best. The state continues to finance its debt through bond and privatisation. That's not your invention, that's what those before you did, but you, Mr. Minister, opposed it, announced changes, and today you're doing exactly the same thing. The state also records a record negative balance in the foreign trade. We have a record trade deficit and that's not why anyone in this country should be happy. Economic growth continues to be based on imports, and this is also being overrun by good VAT revenues. So VAT is growing on trade and imports and it's not good in the long run and it can't be good. The year after year we import more and more food, to prepare the season, and already here in these six months, they feel fine about the effects of these huge imports of food right through VAT. So as much as we look forward to making budget revenues good, we are trying to show you what the real dark background of the macroeconomic picture of the Croatian economy is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73642	Thank you. For PGS, SBH, and MDS, respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73643	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. So let us also for our club, the Primorje-Gorski Alliance club, the Slavon-Baranja Croatian Party, the Međimurje Democratic Alliance from our regional perspective, therefore refer to this report. We did not support the budget when it was passed for this year, so for the same reasons we cannot support this report, because this report actually only proves what we were saying in the adoption of this budget, that Croatia is still, unfortunately, highly decentralised, still leading Croatia a highly centralised fiscal policy. What does that mean? This means that a large, huge part of the fiscal, therefore, tax assets are under government control, i.e. States, and only a small part is controlled by units of local self-government, the city, the municipalities and our counties. Here we are, therefore, repeating the information that some 110 total, 110 total budgets are that the state budget is 93 billion, that somewhere above 6 billion is the city of Zagreb, that somewhere 7 billion is the budget of all other cities, counties and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and our position was therefore to try to change it. Unfortunately, not a single step has been taken so far. This year we had the opportunity to do so at least a little bit to fix the situation in the budgets of our municipalities, cities and counties, namely colleagues from the CNS have proposed changes in the tax therefore on profits, but unfortunately the law was not accepted. And there we would therefore like to warn about what is happening in this state budget, namely in the report it was reported that, on that particular profit tax item, there was a significant or could be said to the most significant increase in therefore the funds collected on that item by almost 25%, so nearly three million kunas were collected. Such a trend has also been recorded in the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb has increased the budget in this particular item by around 600 million kuna, but the opposite trend is happening in many of our municipalities, cities and counties, which is exactly the point of profit tax they have to reduce up to 30%. I think that's where we need to intervene as soon as possible and reverse that trend. We know therefore that the profit tax is paid by companies to the headquarters of the company, we know that all state-owned companies, that all major companies are based in the City of Zagreb, so it is incomeming even though they have outposts all over Croatia, but these municipalities have no use for it. Unfortunately, there is also a trend that other private companies are increasingly moving from our counties to the City of Zagreb, because the City of Zagreb we know has become a very large and economic centre, but therefore we must not allow the issue of development policy, that the City of Zagreb sucks up everything that is valuable in the Republic of Croatia, so we here in the Parliament have a duty to ensure the smooth development of Croatia throughout its territory. Unfortunately, this is neither achieved nor achieved in this budget, and we insist that as soon as possible, reforms as regards the fiscal system are in order to achieve this very possibility for all our regions to develop more evenly, and therefore for this to be possible to make fiscal adjustment, a reform in this sense that the value added tax is also shared. I've already mentioned here, cited a case or an example of the Međimurje County. The total budgets of the city, municipality and county budgets of all units in Međimurje are 250 million kuna. Compared to these budget revenues, which are collected at all levels of the state, it is 0.2%, while Međimurje has 2.5% of the population, meaning that 2.5% of the population of the Republic of Croatia lives in Međimurje. So we see how disproportionate it is in collecting tax funds and returning these tax funds to Međimurje, and that is the case throughout Croatia. So that's why we won't support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73644	Thank you. The HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73645	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The same is true here as a mantra repeats a sad fact that in Croatia there is indeed what is called the rich north and the poor south in the world literature. And in fact, every serious, responsible, wise government must try to do everything possible to obtain a certain transfer of wealth from these richer parts of the Republic of Croatia to those who are getting circumstances poorer. One of the ways in which the mechanism can be done should certainly be the state budget. It is shown that what we have at the club is more than clear that it is very difficult, that there is no clearer National Strategy on how we think about Croatia's future and in all its segments. It turns out that unfortunately in the past a whole series of very bad moves have been made and now it's simply not possible overnight and not even through one, and we can see even two or more budgets to change that from once. Uncontrollable entry of foreign capital, sale of family silver,... I always contaminate it with unemployment, it really shows that foreign capital has first and foremost the interest of profit, its own profit, and that it's not really too much of an interest in how the situation here is going to be economically and politically social. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why it seems to me that our discussions yesterday and today, more or less repeated is the same old story, the budget is always let her talk about whether the phone book is literature or not literature, you take segment... You really see that the situation is far from great. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What always stays out of reach every time, which is the structure, is the whole, obviously there are no proposals for these more important structural reforms that will change exactly this fact that in Croatia, too, there is what we can undertake under the rich north and the poor south. And that's exactly what we should be talking about when we talk about this decentralisation or even development of the Republic of Croatia, because it also produces a whole series of political implications, from some regionalism that is very often produced politically, how to defend the fact that there is below the Karlovac and almost there to Split that you have a space that is almost uninhabited. It's too much space that should definitely be designed somehow. What I would be interested in as a member of the HSLS Club and would suggest to the Government and the Minister whether there is actually room for this budget to be strengthened and that we are also trying to be socially sensitive from this increased budget, and also to lead this so-called decentralisation, which would normally be followed by not only the downsizing of administrative powers, but simply by lowering and certain financial resources. We think in the club that this really exists, there is a state property that is here and after fifteen years is actually not listed yet, that the state still has no catalogue, inventory of what belongs to it and that could very much be put into function of the development of the Republic of Croatia, and then where this development on the one hand would also be socially sensitive and that could then carry out some of these reforms, which would touch the whole, and not just individual segments. Since we voted in favour of this budget, the same with many similar objects which were then standing and with the awareness that he was certainly not great in parts, but could not offer one, to offer one different and methodology and structure of the budget. And here we are now suggesting that when this budget is done for 2007, that indeed there are, and the possibilities for the state to take advantage of them where and where better, to make that inventory, to finally enter that property, to make the state aware of what all its masters are with, and then to actually go with it in privatisation, to concessions, and not to say what we have done and earned quite lightly in these past 15 years that we have sold for God why this is our family silver, and then normally that one Dutche telecom with one single correction of the price actually returned everything he has entered inside. The big question is whether Pliva should be sold at all and whether politics should be involved at all, let that market decide how much to achieve the price, and I don't know that for a month, two days it's actually the main news that since I don't know about such corrupt things we have the opposite view. Once again, because time is running out, just repeating that when the budget was passed, we supported that even in execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73646	Thank you. For the HSS club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73647	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Treasury, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So allow a few final sentences related to the execution of the state budget. I think it is certain that the state budget is the most important act in the Croatian Parliament and that in any case it is the duty of all of us here to pay the utmost attention to it. If the state budget is that then we should certainly pay great attention to it when it comes to the execution of the state budget and every honour of the minister that is there all the time, it would be as good as it is already pointed out here that there are other resistors here other than finances, but the game of the case was the secretary of state here, so here it is because the next point is his that it is very good that it is here because here in these five minutes I will try to say something more about agriculture. I have to start by saying something that seems illogical to me, or else we can't say it's a legal problem, but the law is like that, and so far the government has always done this, but we're going to have a strange situation where we do rebalance, we do rebalancing, and then we get execution in six months, and I think it's one order that should actually give a good think in the future whether it should lead in that way because it would be the logic of things that impose on everyone, which is that first we have some kind of execution to see what's done, what are the problems, and then that after that we go to rebalance. But without the difference in rebalancing here on behalf of the HSS Club we've spoken a lot, so here I'm going to make it very clear again. I think what happened in the rebalancing, what happened in the budget is extremely bad for Croatian agriculture, and the reason is simple and clear, we have not only warned him but we have also made very clear amendments to that budget. Today in the Croatian village I would say that the situation is sad and miserable, our people should go into sowing, but there is no money. There is no money because the promises of the day will be paid, it is said to settle everything but what we warned that there will be no enough money, that the items have been broken, that when 70% of the budget is spent, and that is cca 70% spent in the first six months that it is evident that there is insufficient money in that part. Even moreover, it was clearly said that 50% will be paid, 100% for the wheat that came from last year, unfortunately only now something has arrived about 50 percent and there is definitely no more money and no further payments. I think there's one big concern going on and I think in this part when we talk about execution, we can't go through it. The budget is such that certain things have to be planned about it, they have to be clearly defined, and when such failures are made then there is no longer an excuse, we can't say that it's someone's fault before, that this or that, we need to know clearly that we're going to have a big problem. I would very clearly like to hear the answer of what will happen in the next three months by the end of the year, how all that is necessary to pay off for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy when we all know that here no one can help either the chief treasurer or the minister when the items are limited. Therefore, a mistake was made in the rebalancing process, there was not enough money, and it was necessary to predict them. We're talking about reforms, we should have continued them, we should have run a lot more things unfortunately that haven't been launched and we've brought ourselves into a situation now what? Extremely heavy, people I'd say they're not even so loud anymore, but they're extremely quiet that I think it's much, much more dangerous than when they're still complaining about the whole part. My warning is that I think it will be, at least I hope to take it seriously because otherwise I'm afraid that the whole thing about agriculture, with everything that needs to be done by the end of the year will look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73648	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73649	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. MP Pankretic said that it was extremely bad what happened to the budget rebalance in agriculture. It's not exactly true, the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry, the water economy is, it's the Ministry's increased funds by 54 million kuna, so the question is how can it be something bad when the funds for agriculture are increased?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73650	Dear Representative Mato Churchvenac, Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73651	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The budget is not easy, of course we all know that, and some in particular do not follow nor fulfill, nor fill daily, nor settle obligations, etc. However, the government and the ministries are there to address problems. What we think about this report is that the government does not show real problems in which Croatia is, and they are serious. Second, the government has no developmental response to this and to these problems, while at the same time radiating complacency. I'll do it, the minister says MPs speak black. They can even speak black, but the government has to speak realistically about the state of things otherwise can't solve any problems. If that's not the way it is and doesn't say it's real and that things don't go seriously enough, I'll warn the next five cases alone. First, he felt tax collection was still unsatisfactory. Last year, tax collection was below the nominal level of growth in economic activities, which says that the charge is not good. You add up the data on those foundations and you'll get to what it's going to be like this year, but let's let it go. I know all the problems. But what about taxing those who spend big money, those rich owners of poor companies, as Mr. Markovanovic says? What about those who took possession of yachts, slopes of Sljemenski and all other Croatian mountains and lakes? The state still claims, it's been cheated. Especially from the rich. Of course, it cannot be deceived only by those who work, workers and peasants of course, merchants, teachers, nurses and others. And charge the Minister's taxes well, but what about these things that possessed these slopes and shores? I don't think there's any satisfaction in taxing well, and when we suggest a criminal tax on crime done in privatisation, you two days ago reject that law. ... We couldn't, because there wasn't enough gear here between you and the rest of you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Second. We warn that indifference is growing and that's how it is. You can say whatever you want, people feel it every day in the business. And the charges we were talking about here are obviously late. Third. We believe it is unrealistic and incorrect that the Government is too emphasising how successfully it supports economic development from the budget. The funds for that are getting smaller. I've given examples of two funds, but take the funds of the Ministry of Economy, who did they seriously help? Some serious programmes now go abroad because they have no support in Croatia. Let's not talk about what I counted. The Regional Development Fund was adopted, which is why it was established 5 years ago and now has less money than it did to support the development of Slavonia, Gorski Kotar, Zagorje, Like, Banija, Korduna, Pokuplja, Žumberka, all of it is empty and white. The government doesn't even know how much this GEP has increased and nothing really seems to be serious about it. Fourth. There's talk of a lot of success in employment. Look, it's nice that 20 people are more busy. Well done. But it's actually little and nothing for perspectives and problems that we have. At the same time, of course it's not much talking and the fact that citizens say only 5% of Croatian citizens say they see that their standards will be better. Only 5%. Unfortunately, those who are now more wealthy. He's poorer, 95% of them have no illusions of getting better. And finally the fifth. We cannot express satisfaction here because the government has no serious idea how to solve Croatia's problems. The problems of its interests, our interests won't solve Europe, we don't have any answers to the challenges of the world at the moment, there's high responsibility, there's all the other issues and problems. And now the government says it's a success. I think it would be better for the government to say that it is not and that work should be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73652	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the honourable representative Željko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73653	Mr. President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of a esteemed colleague of the Church that the Regional Development Fund has been aiding Banovina. He helped her with 28m kuna support and loans to a company headed by the SDP County Committee, and the money ended in Serbia. And now there's a criminal investigation going on. In this way, the Regional Development Fund supported Banovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73654	For the club of representatives of the CNS, the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73655	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS in the final brief review of the three comments. Two contentable and I mean essential, one methodological. Namely, this report that we have in our account is almost impossible to follow, in fact, which are processes because sometimes it's about the moon, so it compares the month with the month, sometimes the quarter with the quarter, sometimes the midterm with the midterm, and in one part of the report 5 months with 5 months, so it's absolutely very difficult to track, so in this explanation it's said that exports in May are 26.4% and we know that exports can vary. Hand over the ships for a month, and then your exports will rise rapidly. Therefore, the real data would be the one that would be for the entire midterm and certainly not for one month. It is, of course, silenced that exports were less than 7.5% in April than in April of the previous year. Similarly, it is not said that in February, imports increased by 30% compared to February last year. Thus, it is absolutely very difficult to monitor these data, and I suggest the Ministry of Finance for the transparency that has been said here, that these data are indeed in six months and that all these processes that are important can then be monitored. And another proposal. The Ministry of Finance, since the commitments made here are constantly being discussed, would be good for the content of each report to meet obligations at the end of the observed period. How far did the country's commitments come in 30.6.2006? We have the right as agents to know that. Then we won't push around on the subject. And now two substantive remarks or views that I think show what the real economic situation of the Republic of Croatia is. Two of the most important information in our opinion, or information from this budget, is data on employment and information on export coverage, imports by export. And when you look at those data in months when it's actually hard to fake anything, because it's the same period of the year, then you'll see that the number of employees, and they're more difficult to manipulate than the number of unemployed, it's a matter of records, registration, etc., is compared to June-June, June 2006. - June 2005 increased 0.7%. Practically, it did not increase and the same information, the same information was basic, in our opinion for both 2004 and 2003. And two. Information on the coverage of imports by export. 47.7% in 2003, that coverage was 47 plus, minus 1%. So there's been no shift. These are two key figures that need to draw the conclusion that Croatia is standing, Croatia is not running, if this is the only way to look at it, Croatia stands. Fortunately, Croatia was launched long ago, but these two figures say Croatia is stagnating, that it does not go faster than it did before, and that is why the Club of HNS Representatives will not support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73656	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, a respected representative of the Arthrial Shima, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73657	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Here's how yesterday, on behalf of the club, I couldn't say and take all fifteen minutes to use this opportunity to repeat some of the information that I'm about to make out officially from publicly available information sources, meaning to get flat and free grades. First and foremost, this is a report on a half-yearly period. Of course it always contains, I repeat, those seasonal influences that each period contains. In this half-year period, it can be concluded that all macroeconomic objectives are established for this year and for this period through these indicators that I will briefly specify and achieve, with all the pessimistic feelings of individuals. The main macroeconomic objectives in this year, I repeat, were the real increase in gross social product during the first 3.6 period for the first three months and in the second 6%. Therefore, the average is about 3.8 or 3.7 or how long it is to continue to grow in the real sector of the economy, and this stable growth in the real sector of the economy, to stabilise growth in trade, that even within six months, there is an increase in the tourism sector, of course, that the seasonal impact in the summer will be even more significant. Also, this period marks the good liquidity of banks and through the collected revenues and other, of course, in the correlation and in one part and good liquidity of the state, not entering individual executions in certain details. Also, the stabilised interest during this period, that prices were stabilised and that inflation after deviations in the last year showed different rates in different months was also stabilised at a rate of around 2.2% for this period. Therefore, all these indicators clearly point to stable trends in individual sectors. Employment. In addition to any observations which go forward, it shows stable growth in all months of the previous reporting period. Therefore, there is no seasonal impact of summer employment but precisely in these six months, so that employment is the highest with all observations in the last ten years. Unemployment at the rate still 15.7% high, but it is the lowest in that period recorded in previous times. Therefore, no seasonal influences that come only in summer afterwards. And of course, this employment and unemployment best says MO we can measure and they show stable employment growth in all months. One more thing. Kunian deposits are growing. From what? It's all poor but kuna deposits are growing in this period, and by index of about 8%. Growth and foreign exchange, liquidity growth, population placement, imports and exports. Exports grow faster than imports but imports are still very high. Three groups specifically stand out, yesterday I said today, three product groups. Importing machines, imported cars, oil imports. Therefore, these are the three-determinants that condition imports with all those problems of sector-specific debt. Also, the rise in revenue in this year and expenditures that are under control clearly indicates that the government is fully controlling the state of affairs and there is no talk of instability and there is no talk of possible problems that may continue the year. We simply believe that during the summer and in the follow-up of the year, the report will show even better trends and even more stability at the end of the year. All this so far could only be done if all processes are controlled in all elements that make up macroeconomic policy in this year. Thus, without euphoria, we believe that these are the tasks that have been accomplished and that many wanted to achieve these results, and this is likely to result in dissatisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73658	Thank you. Final review by Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73659	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! First of all, thank you all for the debate. Everyone normally expressed their views and opinions. Allow me at the end as a representative of the government and the Minister of Finance to say something. No matter what our political thoughts are about something, whether it should be one way or another, it is not good when we deny the indicators given by the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I mean the Croatian National Bank, Croatian Statistics Institute. Because we can be content or dissatisfied. I can understand that someone is also satisfied with the 4.5% charge that was in his mandate without being satisfied with 11% of this government, to deny it, I can understand it. However, the facts remain facts and no one can deny it. However, it is not good to say when we talk about the Regional Development Fund to ignore and forget one fact. In 2003, in the seventh and eighth months, 80% of local self-government units in the area of special state care, so among other things and Slavonia, which so many people today mention and then didn't mind, for example, Jasenovac Municipality and some other municipalities were blocked because income tax returns went from their giro-account. Since 1.1.2004, it's been going from the state budget's account, and in such a way it's been said in the blood stream of local self-government units with areas of special state care and mountainous areas, it's 225 units of local self-government injecting somewhere 550 million kuna. And when we just take the naked data on how much budget funding is provided for by the Regional Development Fund and we say that and let's forget about this fact, and at the same time forget that we blocked those units because we didn't want to help them in 2003, then it looks like what it looks like. But it is the right of course that everyone should express their opinion and it is my duty as a representative of the Government to present this other fact with which one must or does not have to agree, but it cannot challenge it. And secondly, I was an opposition representative. I've never allowed my government colleagues and the ruling coalition of MPs to attack with argument and invent data. I never let that happen. And I won't even allow it as a minister. And that's why it particularly bothers me when someone with fictitious data wants to impress someone and maybe tomorrow the media will publish it, but it's not good for the SDP or the HDZ or the other parties. It's not good to say the government gave the debtor, they gave 8% of the interest. It is not good to say that the government owes 6% when we know that the last bonds were issued with no currency clause at an interest rate of 4.2%. It's not good to say the government owes 6%. After all, it's a data that's available to everyone. Why use, and then create a normally electrified atmosphere and all incorrect data in the debate. Another thing, if we have passed some laws and these laws are passed during the coalition government, if they apply today, then we cannot deny them and invent them. And among other things, Article 121 speaks about how the deficit counts, the Budget Act. Neither Shuker nor Linic nor the Church invented it, but someone wrote the law, probably under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. Then the parliamentary, coalition majority passed the law. We didn't change it. But it's not good to say the minister invented some kind of modified thing. It means there's chaos in this country, doing what anyone wants. And at the same time, be at a press conference and support someone who's made an anti-zoontic decision. That's not good. And make up that someone sent some memos he didn't send. What's that for? What's that for? Who's in the interest of wanting to create chaos? And then don't be surprised why we're rated so by some international institutions, I repeat. The second time I had a chance to talk to Mr. Klain, who is the creator of the... Report» of the World Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I said, I stand by it. There is no one in this country to say without arguments that a construction permit takes 700 days in Croatia. Maybe for some specific case yes, but what about the other cases? And what do we think we're going to get with that if we present our country in that way? What do we think these outsiders are going to clap on us? He'll be banging on the head, both SDP and HDZ. We're all in the same basket. But I repeat what I said at the beginning. If I thought of a situation like this in my country, in my country, I'd have a hard time worrying. But I think the situation is much better and let's respect the indicators we have. Of course they can always be better. And of course the opposition with them is not satisfied but does not deny certain things and unfortunately invent certain things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-11-0.u73660	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 for the first half of 2006 I give the vote the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 for the first half of 2006 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 76 votes for, 6 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion.
