ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77944	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party's club, we protest the conduct of Mr. Josip Kampic, a watch commander who has been acting inadmissiblely, arrogantly and inappropriately towards reporters, journalists in the Croatian Parliament. I witnessed on the Mandate-Immunity Commission when he did not allow journalists to enter despite the rules of the Rules of Procedure. And on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I demand that the issue be considered at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament Presidency and that appropriate measures be taken because journalists have an obligation to report the truth and inform the Croatian public, and it is particularly appropriate today that such a relationship was also against women, because today the international fight against violence against women. We're looking for measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77945	Yeah, for a day of protection and violence against women that has something to do with someone... What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77946	It has to do with women being treated like that. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77947	And what you'll be correcting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77948	Col. Kovacevic, today is not the International Day for Combating Violence against Women. That's tomorrow. Tomorrow is International Day against Violence Against Women, and today is Parliament's Day against Family Violence against Women who were scheduled to mark this Parliament today at noon with their special session, but unfortunately they will not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77949	State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77950	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. A few words on the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming, with the Final Proposal of the Law. This proposal proposes further compliance with EU rules in the area of zoo technique, which is an obligation under the National Programme for Accession of the European Union in 2006. And also in this law, we adopt provisions that contribute to increasing the competitiveness of livestock production. In fact, it should be said that just by implementing operational programmes to support bovine production and pig production that we have created favourable lending conditions, that we have covered state guarantees and also provided the Ministry's grants for the construction of new livestock farms. In these two years of implementation, this has resulted in a new 96 cattle livestock farms being raised in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, only from this operational programme, and about 30 more farms were created on the basis of commercial loans. Also by implementing the operational programme of raising pigmeat production for the time being, since it has only just begun for now, we have three programmes worth 14 million kuna. It should also be said that the increase in livestock production has also resulted in an increase in milk production by recording a 15% increase over the past year. Therefore, with the rise of permanent plantations and the implementation of these operational programmes for the raising of livestock production, we believe that the greatest contribution to structural reforms is because it increases the profitability and competitiveness of our producers. There is a law on livestock farming that is largely in line with the provisions of the European Union relating to the conditions of breeding and production of farmed animals. It also organizes the production of crops. In addition, the existing law also respects the zoo hygiene conditions of the holding of domestic animals, the quality of animal food and the quality of products of animal origin. These are also inspection controls. These amendments create a legal basis for the implementation of certain Directives and decisions of the European Union which were not in existing law. This also enables the adoption of implementing rules, which will be more detailed in the specific questions to which the Law on cattle farming applies. It shall be determined that the form and contents of the relatives and the certificate of origin will be detailed in the sublaws. The rules of the European Union also provide for the issue of a passport for a single throat by copiers, and we have prescribed in this law the form and content of the kinsmen, the passport for the hooves and the way it is issued, the way the hooves are organised, the clearer definition of the bee breed. Here I must stress that, together with the beekeepers' and associations, we have agreed that our gray bee should be protected, so as an autochton, and thus make it impossible to traffic with other breeds of bees that are less resistant, especially less resistant to disease. And that is where we will be used with an example from Slovenia that protected its Kranjska bee and thus helped its producers. A more efficient organisation of the implementation of breeding work through breeding organisations and through breeding alliances is also prescribed. In the section relating to the conditions of production in livestock, this bill proposes to prescribe the introduction and use of cadastre bee pastures. Then the introduction of a training programme for breeders. So here we are, facing the problem of educating our breeders. We believe that if it is necessary for some simpler crafts to have master exams and crafts etc. that just in cattle production, especially today when they go into large investments, building farms, when loans are raised, they invest large funds that our producers must have that elementary education as much as about economic knowledge and this technology. And we will also meet by entering the European Union with the fact that support and incentives are also linked to environmental protection and product quality but also to the education of producers. Efficient manure disposal is also prescribed. Conditions to be met in the adoption of spatial plans for livestock production and the prohibition provision is also lifted for the rejuvenation of domestic animals. In fact, this provision proved to be repressive ineffective, and we are precisely in this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Support Act, going to this stimulating part, which is that with a thousand and 800 kuna, we are incentivising this hero from domestic calves, so from domestic production until it appears from imports, then it is for a thousand kunas less, so 800 kuna. I would also mention here that after the debate on the Committee on Agriculture, we accept and accept the amendment that requires that spatial plans take into account the specificity of a particular area of production, so this amendment of the Committee on Agriculture is considered to be to be accepted and that it will improve especially when deciding on spatial plans and insurance in these spatial plans and areas for the construction of livestock farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77951	Thank you. The committees? Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, President of the Committee, Honored Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77952	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 45th session held on 14 November the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming. The discussion of that draft law was carried out by the Committee in the capacity of the home working body. Following the opening statement by the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy, the Committee supported the proposal from the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. In the debate on that proposal, the Committee supported its adoption since the proposed amendments and amendments to the provisions of the livestock law fully comply with the rules applicable in the European Union. However, it has been pointed out in the debate that the adoption of spatial plans for the minimum livestock production where the construction of specific facilities is determined should take into account the specificities of the areas in which the production is carried out. Namely, the family farms of livestock production cannot plan their costs for building buildings that are very high here, because they are not sure whether they meet the conditions of spatial plans. Therefore, the creation of the same should make sure that each village, the municipality of which the livestock production takes place, has its specific features. In this respect, the proposed Committee shall submit an amendment in this regard to Article 12. The representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy agreed with that proposal. In further discussion, it was stated that a large number of family farms dealing with livestock production have facilities, farms that are not legalised and, if they do not try to find a solution to production, they will remain outside the incentive system. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming together with the next amendment. In Article 12(1) of the original Article 30, the point is replaced by the decimal point and the words are added: "respecting the specificities of the areas in which the production takes place" together with the explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77953	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Vladimir Kurecic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77954	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary and Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing amendments to the Law on cattle farming, a law that regulates if not the most significant then at least one of the most significant branches of agriculture. For reasons of economic traditional environmental, landscape, social and other importance, livestock must be at the heart of every serious agricultural policy, as is the case in developed Western and central European countries, so to the countries of the European Union. In this context, this important branch of the economy must provide conditions for good development in order to have a place of its importance and potential by bringing the Republic of Croatia closer and by entering the European Union. Today, livestock farming in the Republic of Croatia is adapted to new conditions of competition in the open market and changes in the economic and social structure of the country. The characteristics of these structural changes are known. Growth in production unit size, i.e. ownership, animal production growth, as well as the reduction of the number of animal holders, especially in intensive production. This is becoming a trend as it was, and in part, in developed countries, although, given Croatian specificities, we should not ignore those small and least producers in livestock farming, as much as the agricultural policy measures must help them as much as possible, regardless of the scale and intensity of production. It cannot be anything for us whether or not people will live in remoter, undeveloped, mountainous and border areas, and we must not allow such areas without humans and livestock to grow into chicars and ambrosia fields. Developed European countries are increasingly taking care of this aspect, so we must never lose sight of this. Mostly intense or more intensive livestock production in the Republic of Croatia is stabilised after a number of years of stagnation. With the introduction of operational programmes for the development of cattle and pigmeat from 2004 to 2005 in the Republic of Croatia, the production of milk and meat is growing and the production of milk and meat is growing in almost all other parts of livestock, especially in the intensive part except for horsemeat, but this is one other story given the specificity. The mentioned growth is important due to the achievement of the level of self-sufficiency, i.e. the reduction of the need to import, although we are all aware that there is a large area here to increase, because it is a major damage primarily to the economy that Croatia does not produce and several times more than it is currently producing, and agricultural policy measures must therefore ensure safety for farmers in this case for cattle farmers because the illusion expects stability of development with tocarians in the conditions of open market management. The Law on livestock farming regulates the farming and production of farmed animals, the reproduction of domestic animals, the trafficking of farmed animals, zoo hygiene conditions, environmental protection in breeding and production, the quality of livestock and animal products, the establishment and implementation of breeding and other relevant issues for the development of livestock farming. This is about domestic animals that have an economic purpose, and it promotes an increase in the efficiency of the production of domestic animals, preserving or improving their vitality, increasing the economics of livestock production, improving the quality of livestock products as well as preserving the genetic diversity of domestic animals. The breeding of breeding animals in the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition and goes back to the end of the 19th century. It lasts all this time with a stalemate in the middle of the last century in the former state, revives Croatia's loneliness and continues to this day. The organized breeding of domestic animals at the beginning of the last century rested on the association of breeders in breeding societies whose structure, based on the succession and selection of animals according to desirable characteristics, will provide breeders with the greatest genetic progress and resulting in the largest profits in production. For a long time, breeding and selection work took place outside the association system within the organisation in which the selection service carried out the work with breeders. All this problem was covered by the 1997 Law on cattle farming with its smaller or larger amendments from 98 and 2003. The Law and its amendments, as well as the Law on Associations of 2001 and 2nd year, have given the possibility to establish and organise breeding associations as well as their associations. Although breeding and selection work has been successful so far, during the implementation of the applicable law and its amendments, the fact that all types of domestic animals have increased their selection coverage should be emphasized that the success of genetic construction depends on the coverage of the population. Which means that good organisation of associations and their associations and their full inclusion in breeding and selection work can expect even better results from the implementation of breeding programmes of certain types of domestic animals. As a good example of the breeders' association, I will list from several possible models the Bavarian model of the brown beef grower. In Germany, therefore, breeding associations are organized according to the interests of, of course, the breeders themselves. The political system of the organisation through the federal states and at a lower level through regional areas of hierarchical monitoring and the system of organisation of breeders. They are therefore covered at the state level below which the federal level, in this case Bavaria, and below the level of the region in which they have an organisation of breeders with their departments. In Croatian example, this is the state level and below the level of one or more counties or lower individual associations and their organisation. What is important is the breeding programme with its objectives at the level of federal states, which is brought together by breeders through associations and the participation of scientific institutions, institutes, universities, or universities, institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry of the Federal Government. Therefore, what is important for breeders as owners of capital and interest takes place in associations that are NGOs, non-political and non-profit organisations where breeding selection work takes place, parent books are conducted and marketing is managed through them, i.e., purchases. Members of the breeding association shall be entitled to advice in the implementation of the breeding programme, their cows and bulls shall be able to participate in the development of targeted mating, to participate in organised intra-state marketing, to participate in an organised feed system, to grow, to sell breeding bulls for the market, to receive information through expert magazines. In this part of the State aid, the financing of the salary of a breeding adviser who is an employee of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, whose task is to bred members of the association. Other labour funding is provided only by the association. The condition that a breeder may become a member of an association is a minimum of 66% of the bovine population in control. In our case, the control of the Croatian cattle center. These other control organisations are service services run by the production control business, the marking of the throat and the calculation of the breeding value on which breeders and institutions are monthly informed in the implementation of the breeding programme. The financing of this institution is 50% breeders and 50% from the budget. In our case, the Croatian cattle centre already operates on this principle with an important note that far more resources are made by work and service, about 2/3, and 1/3 is generated from the state budget. The third in the Bavarian system or model is the control association for the quality of milk, and is financed by the grower, so the manufacturer, and the milkman, therefore, the processor. In this Bavarian model, breeders and their organizations are the foundation of systems where NGOs and non-profit organisations have their own professional employees as their own service. The state encourages the work of the association and helps in one part of their work and coordination of the breeding programme. In addition, German breeders and co-owners with their stakes in institutions such as test cells, reproductive cells and artificial testing. They have, therefore, a direct interest in the quality of their work, and have a direct impact on the control and content of breeding work and markets. In addition, they conduct auction sales of cattle almost weekly as well as the collection, transport and sale of calves. This model in this case is German, i.e. Bavarian, shows all its effectiveness because, through the direct inclusion of breeders and their associations with complementary relations with scientific institutions and the Ministry of Agriculture it is encouraged, valuable and excellently carried out breeding and breeding and selection work for the benefit and satisfaction of all with the ultimate objective of high level of agricultural development, in this case livestock farming, i.e. livestock farming. Let us not forget that Bavaria, as an industrially highly developed country, has, in this way, achieved the high development of agricultural production, in this case, livestock production. In Croatia we are able to establish such or similar model, of course, according to our specificities. I'd say it's a necessity at this point. Although the earlier amendments and additions of the Law on cattle farming have created basic conditions for the formation of breeding associations and their associations, these changes and additions will allow for their effective establishment and as quickly and better functioning as possible to contribute to the better position of livestock farming and its competitiveness. Moreover, today without permanent education and education, without the monitoring and application of modern achievements in science and technology, without the application of new knowledge and methods in breeding, holding, feeding, health care is impossible to imagine modern profitable production. It is therefore important to allocate funds under this proposal for the law on additional education of cattleherds in secondary, higher and higher agricultural schools, but the nearest residence of cattlemen in the part of the year when the least job and obligation in the warring part of livestock production is logical. By the way, but not less importantly, it is absolutely necessary that both the level, but also the regularity of the payment of incentives, be aimed at the cost of the production and safety of agricultural producers. Furthermore, these amendments to the Law will bring provisions in line with the rules applicable in the European Union. This applies, among other things, to the provisions relating to the conditions in which the sports competition of horses takes place and to the provisions laying down the format and content of the passport in horses, the form and content of the relatives and the way in which it is issued for certain types of domestic animals, thereby more detailedly determining how breeding status, breeding animals, especially in the case of original and protected breeds. As the bee is the only kind of domestic animal where it is prescribed that only certain breeds should be grown and in order to preserve our genome, the conditions of breeding of the grey bee are clearly determined, in which it is essential that the health characteristics of the grey bee bee bee bee. In addition, this Proposal for a Law is deleted in full in 1998, which prescribed that when domestic animals of a species, breeds, categories, which reduce the scope of livestock production, the minister may decide on a restriction or ban on the subjugation thereof. This applies first of all to calves and pigs. The proposer considers that this measure has not achieved the expected results so far and there is no reason to keep it going because the problem of the rejuvenation cannot be addressed by administrative measures but must ensure that economic reasons for holders to actually keep up with longer cultivation. Furthermore, the way in which breeding animals and genetic material are kept shall be specified if the importer is registered for imports in accordance with specific rules. In this article on spatial conditions, it is important to note that I am glad that the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, which, in accordance with specificities, gives the possibility that cattlemen can really breathe on this matter, but it is also important to legalise so far smaller objects because it is important that people do what they may have illegally built at times can legalise it. And to conclude that we are in constant contact with agricultural producers and in daily meetings, round tables, consultations or, for example, conferences recently in Vukovar, the need for increased care for livestock production is repeatedly highlighted. It should be pointed out that for the further development of livestock farming it is very important to implement the established land policy with the right of first purchase seriously... producers, the strict control of the allocation of incentives, the rapid achievement of capital support, the opening of credit lines for agriculture both directly and for the purchase of agricultural land and the resolution of the justified incentive application shall be secure and regular. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Addressing these problems means a direct contribution to the development of livestock farming in the Republic of Croatia in a concrete material sense and facilitating the adaptation of Croatian livestock production prior to the entry into the European Union, such as the amendments and additions to the Law on livestock farming that we are discussing today, and which will also be supported by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ in organisational terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77955	Thank you. The HSS Club, a respected representative of Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77956	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. So allow me a few words on behalf of the Croatian Peasants' Party Club on the Law on cattle farming. Let me begin by saying that I would be much more pleased when, and in particular our cattlemen would be more satisfied when it comes to the Law on cattle farming that regulates their territory in a certain way, if they could say that they have been given certain incentives and subsidies that have been waiting for a long time, unfortunately for this part and for this part when we talked about the budget in particular I mentioned livestock and the problems that have occurred. It is well known in the ministry that subsidies and incentives are no longer paid as was once quarterly than the midterm, and these calculations are quite late, so here I am also appealing to the ministry and the secretary of state to try to do something, especially here when we talk about cattlemen. With regard to, here we have a brief report on the overall state of livestock production which is objectively we can say relatively we can be satisfied with certain items, those related to livestock production, cattle production related to the rock of the heifer and cow although there is something else missing in the production of milk to achieve what is the goal of each production, which is self-sufficiency. We are also not certainly satisfied with the part where we talk about beef production where we lack that self-sufficiency below 25% of our beef production, and I think we're going to need a lot more work to do in that part. I think it's, what's not the subject of this law, but there's been a lot of talk about it is thinking about the cow-body system and something that's missing in production today. However, it is specifically about the Law on cattle farming. This is about amendments and additions to the Law that bear the label P.Z.E. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the assessment of the underlying issues covered by the proposed Law, the applicant also states that it is about changes which will fully comply with the rules applicable in the European Union. This primarily refers to the conditions in which the sports competition of horses takes place and the shape and contents of the passport in horses. The whole form and contents of the monks and the way it is issued for certain types of domestic animals shall be prescribed. The main issue I must also mention here is by bringing the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union in 2006 in Chapter 3.12 relating to food safety, veterinary and sanitary surveillance on page 155 that in 2006 plans and prepares the publication of a new Animal Food Act which, unfortunately, we do not now have, and this is the same issue since it is related to this part of what it is about. It may be important to stress that the Law on cattle farming was passed by the original law of '97. the year that had 66 articles, changes and additions to '98. of 3 articles and 2003 amended and supplemented by 42 articles. Today we have here re-changes and additions to the 29th article, and now I must honestly say the issue is being raised. Why don't we have a new law here today, a new law that should have been given these changes and additions in here I'd say back 4, 5 changes? It requires all of us to include today, perhaps there may be a new Law on cattle farming here. However, let us see exactly what is changing and how we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club view these changes and additions to this law. In Article 1 which is amended in Article 2 paragraph 17 in a way that is... So, in the whole of the law, there is no longer a notion of licensing as a breeding measure, selection and evaluation of the breeding grounds for natural entry, but instead the concept of a passport which is an identification document issued for equidae is introduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why the licensing as a breeding measure of the selection and evaluation of the fertilisation pads for natural leave is not explained by the applicant whether there are professional reasons for that and which they are. We hope to hear more reasoning here. The main question is to talk about it. In principle, Article 4 proposes a solution on the prohibition of breeding and placing on the market of all other breeds of bees other than grey. I think since we've had some conversation with the beekeepers, we should support it because it keeps our bee's autochthonousness from getting some crosses. Also in Article 5, since it is proposed to delete Article 13 which is related to the prohibition provision, it is undermining because that is the case. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, I think a few questions are being raised here, and I don't know what data the ministry has on it when it so responsibly claims that an unspecified measure can be lifted which it said I would always exist. I'd like to hear more in an explanation about this measure. We all know that a ban is a ban on the slaughter of the younger, especially the calves one would say a delicate measure. We all know that we weren't happy with her, that it wasn't in some way that the administrative measure worked in the segment to preserve our cattle fund, especially our calf. However, I do believe that many of them had to try to bypass this measure in order to somehow reach the slaughter of the calves. We know that there were a lot of healthy bodies that had been given by our unfortunately veterinarians a manual that they had broken their legs or something to end up at the slaughter but in any case anyone who wanted to bypass this measure had to make a good effort. I personally think especially when we know that there is a lack of material especially of the thread, we are all aware that the thread material in this heroade is almost 90 if not slightly more than a percent of imports. So there are no bodies for that. Here's something lately that's been mending with the organization, cooperatives within some companies, but we think the total here is the problem. And we know that it happens to us that our really almost best body ends up in slaughterhouses. So there's also the problem of what needs to be done even more intensively, but in the part where the ministry of effort can't be said 'it's certainly to curb the gray economy that was particularly in that part of it I would say always very deep roots. However, I believe that this measure should be reconsidered in a certain way. Article 12 thereof amends Article 30 in such a way as to ensure the conditions for livestock production in the adoption of spatial plans. It should be said that this is a good provision but that the specificities of each area must be taken into account and, regardless of what is changed in a good way, it should be mentioned that this provision has not been implemented in the applicable law because no implementing regulation has been adopted. However, before I say anything about the implementing regulation. I must say, indeed, all of us together face one big problem that concerns the conditions in the spatial plans for livestock production. The conditions imposed in Croatia are I would say unbearable, conditions that do not ensure that we can have a smooth development of livestock production. The conditions for which we determine that certain breeding facilities in livestock production must be separated from almost 300, 400, 500 meters. Some of our villages are again 300, 400 meters from the other side almost without even making a certain agricultural production I must honestly say that I am not talking about the infrastructure that must be dragged to it. All this leads to the fact that it is no wonder that some of our farmers, when they even go to some part of the building, have to give up their investment because really with certain restrictions that we have on spatial plans, that's impossible. Here last weekend I was in Switzerland, in Zürcih, I wouldn't believe it almost I'd say ten minutes from the center of town there's one big one I won't mention the name of a bank, a business building and it's huge. I don't know how many dozen floors, the whole complex. There's a cow farm across the street, and I went straight by, I took a picture, 25. I mean, I don't believe that the bank and those residents who are there in the bank are looking at that part, but it's a very different relationship. I'm sure we could buy that name. It's no big deal. But she's there, and I'd say she's proud of the Swiss people, and it would be good if she were real and I think it was kind of shown and well-willed and accepted by this amendment, but that's where we try even more in the talks and with the Ministry of Construction, the spatial arrangements to see how much more possible and in the existing spatial plans to allow farmers really to do their jobs in that part. Article 15 shall lead to Article 34 of that Article to the management of bee pashas and the establishment of Katastre bee pashas. I think that's good. In a conversation with many beekeepers, all stressed the need to introduce it. I believe that there will also be concessions that will, in a certain way, allow us to master something called Pasha, the Pasha bee. This may seem imaginary now, but in the European Union it is very detailed and clear and in some ways protecting the wealth that a country has in that part. I still have to mention in this section about this total livestock production, and again about the part relating to the objects, I have to mention another big problem that we've debated a lot on the board, which is legalizing the objects in which the livestock production is being carried out. Unfortunately, I'd almost say once, I won't be too harsh in the grade, but I feel free to say 80% of our agricultural producers, peasant economies don't have their own farm legalized today. It's a fact of fact, and we all know it well. Since we know and what production is taking place on these farms, I think that a total of thinking would in which way see everything possible, legalize, help these people to get to these building permits, to sort of modernise those farms, but in any case, that in the shortest time possible, the time that we still have left and which is not long in all these processes of approaching the European Union comes to what is called and what we have prescribed in law, each farm must have its own number. Without that number, it won't work, and if it doesn't work, then we all know what's going to happen with all the things that need to be gotten in that part. What I may have to stress in principle, given that the slow time expires is something that extends through this law and unfortunately we had cases in these previous laws to be in sublaws, i.e.. Those acts, which should be passed by the minister, unfortunately, have a lot of backlogs and are almost not implemented in some parts, so I pray that in this part when it comes to implementing acts, the rules that should be adopted so that they can be passed as soon as possible because without them, the law is impossible to implement and then, surely, in that part, we cannot even implement everything that we have advocated here and in this law. I think in part, here, I'm not going to go into this detail right now that applies to everything that hasn't been passed, but I think it's necessary at least for these most important regulations that apply especially in this part of the spatial area, meaning the participation in the space and the opportunities that we've talked about most, to get out as soon as possible with the rules, to have the ministry bring them in and that they are, in any case, the integrity of this overall proposal. Here, with these remarks and those amendments, I hope that they will be adopted, with those fences, and I believe the answers we will get from the HSS club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77957	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77958	More questions than correction to Mr Pankretić. Pancret, what are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77959	No questions asked. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77960	Okay, I won't. I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77961	The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77962	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think it is acceptable and that the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian People's Party club, will support it with a few small remarks. Mr. Secretary of State, I think as far as you're concerned, you'll understand and try to do something or all of us together. Status assessment, I'll just read one section so we can continue the discussion. Since 2004, in livestock and in 2005 the operational programmes for the development of these livestock branches have been produced to contribute to a positive change in production systems by establishing new or adaptations and reconstruction of existing ones. Although the number of individual species in the previous period showed a trend in decline, data on the number of animals of a species in recent years do not show significant changes. The tables show that the number of cattle in recent years has increased while the number of cows and all those June 2004 remained unchanged. The number of pigs, as well as the sows and the sows, is subject to major changes. I read this part just to show off the field from Slavonia and they're dissatisfied with Mr. Secretary of State that 50 kunas of import pig are incentivizing and we're convinced that our people in Slavonia can produce not only a young pig but also a lot of sows. Therefore, we think that imports and imports of young pigs with 50 kunas should not be financed and supported from our budget. In the first six months, 202 thousand tonnes were imported, thousands of young pigs, and I don't think that by stimulating these imports, we're going to benefit our pig producers. It's just a little dyspression. I think that as far as this other trend is concerned is good, the Croatian People's Party is supporting it, but we have a problem with farms especially people who are trying to reach new more modern farms through loans now means where they could have both husband and electricity and water, etc. You know that down especially in Dalmatia are more or less all farms or stops of reserve character, more like some caves than real stables. Now we have a problem because many people want through loans, through incentives, through various assurances, means building permit, location, etc. I personally went to the field with some manufacturers, so we tried through forest land, tried to take twenty acres from the state. It goes quite well, however, certain municipalities or not even predicted in their spatial plans, or if they are not far enough away from the last houses, so we have a problem that now there is a discrepancy on the ground and that these people who are supposed to build a stop, raise some credit simply by saying they are in an impossible situation. I think that in the total production of cattle and enlargement and what we can only harmonize some laws and try to make it easier for these people. I assure you of only one of these achievements. Let's just say for forest land, we had six months to go to the offices, people couldn't figure it out, they don't know how it works. And then when we've done that, we need to get to the exorcism part so that a man can get a building permit and a stop location. Because without it, he can't get credit, he can't get electricity, he can't get water. You know the laws have been tightened. I think that the Ministry of Agriculture with some of its own or cracks or I don't know, all of us should come up with something together to make it easier for these people that they can really get to their rights as soon as possible because we know from Europe, from all of these programs that we have allowed cattlemen to get half the money they put into the barn and return. But who can do it? I don't know, in the northern parts it seems a little easier. There's a catastre that's been solved in some way. Believe it down in Dalmatia as far as catastra is concerned, as far as urbanism is concerned, it's in a desperate state and I think that these people downstairs should try to help in some way to help some legislative regulation so that they can be given a longer period of time to regulate through regulations and laws that they can end it in, say, two years in advance. I don't know, it's one of my suggestions, thinking about what I've come up with, because they're just not in a situation right now and they're not in an equal position with other people living in other parts. I don't know who's to blame? Maybe because we lived under Italy, the second under Austria. But certainly this is one huge problem, and I would like to point out that we all try together, and I especially think of the Ministry of Agriculture as a resolute ministry that we should go out with some proposals or attempts by some of these people to get together. Because trust me, 300 to 500 sheep to keep in those stables that don't look like a barn is one terrible situation. It makes it harder for people to work, hygiene and so on. In front of the HNS Club, we will support this proposal. We think he's properly made and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77963	Thank you. The HSP club is a respected representative of Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77964	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Although all the clubs that have spoken so far have supported the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming probably mostly because of the mark of this law bearing the label P.Z.E. So the European law, or law, which, in order to comply with European Union regulations, I would actually ask a slightly different question on behalf of the HSP Club. So, without opposing the adoption of this law or even the part that, by which, neither its intensity nor the part of which it regulates certain relations in livestock farming. However, I am really asking one question not here to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture but perhaps one question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which it is actually harmonising, synchronising and how it leads to the harmonisation of our legislation with the legislation of the European Union. In other words, to translate from Croatian to Croatian why we are very expedient, very spotless and very early, I would say we are too early to comply with certain regulations of the European Union that are not in our interest. One of us, and we are very late with that harmonisation with European legislation in those areas that are of great interest to us. In particular, at all meetings and joint parliamentary committees of the European Union and of the Republic of Croatia, at all meetings of parliamentarians and the Committee on Foreign Policy, if you want to attend all meetings that I have so far and which we have so far had with representatives of our negotiators in the process of joining the European Union, none of the representatives of the European Union have mentioned so far, insisted on the rapid need for harmonisation of Croatian legislation in the area of agriculture or livestock. They all insisted on harmonising legislation with the social statutes of the European Union, with the Law on Labour, with the reform of the judiciary, with the fight against corruption, and so on and so on, because you all know exactly what representatives of the European Commission or of the European Parliament always talk about when discussions are being held on the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union. On the other hand, we are very fast, efficient, spotless and effective in harmonising that part of our legislation, with the legislation of the European Union, which is often harmful to us. Here, a colleague of Kurt's, speaking on behalf of the HNS Club, spoke of how this law should be supported, but on the other hand, he said that our stops look more like caves. So are we aware of that? Is that true what he's saying? Did anyone replicate to him about that? How do we introduce these high European standards that we are constantly equating Croatian legislation with the European Union into caves rather than stables? However, I think that, of course, our barns do not look like caves, but they are still very, very far from the right European standards. Our long-term approach to European integration through our court in the HSP Club should primarily include the establishment of European, social and human rights respect standards and only as a secondary question of harmonisation of market, commercial, financial and in this case agricultural and livestock relations. We should wait in our court until the last minute. And not to rush them like the first pieces of harmony. And that is for a very simple reason to give to both our peasants and all those who should organise their farmers' economies, i.e. livestock, breeding, breeding, stopping and all that is said in this law to have more time to raise it to a certain level that will make it easier for them to accept European standards. Our policy, however, behaves exactly the opposite. We first harmonize those regulations that seem to be best matched politically, not thinking about the consequences of that and how it will affect that part and people in this case farmers, cattle farmers, cattle farmers, and our livestock production. In fact, such a present as I would call the reverse process of accessing our laws to the legislation of the European Union, so it is entirely me to say, we are moving from tail to head, instead of solving compliance with European legislation from head to tail, it has led in Croatia to really introduce high technological standards in many areas, much more free flow and faster fertilisation of capital and sympos certainly much more liberal market relations. But what matters is how much this goes on to the benefit of our citizens in our transition conditions. In our court, all of this so far has gone against the good of the citizens. But they were therefore benefiting from the multinational side, including domestically acquired and questionable capital. For this reason, Croatia is certainly the largest importer of food in the region today and it is truly amazing that all governments that have been in Croatia so far have highlighted the need for revitalisation and the need to improve agriculture, livestock production, our food production, meat production and everything else, and that we are constantly reducing this production and that we are constantly increasing the imports of exactly food and these products, including the livestock product. How much will this law actually be on the welfare of livestock in the sense that we increase production? I'm at the HSP club and we're very skeptical about it. Will this mean that we accept high European standards? That's for sure. But how much will this mean in improving and increasing our livestock farming, our livestock fund and everything else this law applies to is another question. Because our living conditions and the conditions in which they should be met, in which these standards are met in the European Union, are completely different and should be aware of that. That's why, for example, in the assessment of this condition. What am I talking about? If you read the assessment of the situation in this bill then you will see that there are numerous statistical indicators in the assessment of the situation. It's a balance sheet of milk production and consumption, a number of livestock conditions and things like that. On the other hand, I think you're all aware when it comes to milk production that only a few months ago we had huge problems with the purchase of our farmers' milk, because they were not meeting high European standards. So then we started importing milk that meets high European standards. Similarly, these numerous statistical indicators in the proposal for this law are not clear what they are actually serving. Especially since these indicators are not in any connection with the text that stands under the heading "The Consequences That Law Will Come About". And that's what I was curious about. We at the HSP Club were particularly interested in seeing about these statistical, numerous statistical indicators that are listed in the assessment of the situation to be directly linked to the chapter "The consequences that law-making will take place". I haven't seen that link anywhere in the bill of this law and I don't know how this law will affect these statistical indicators that are listed in the scoreboard. And that's what I'd be particularly interested in. So let me see that in the text entitled "the consequences of the law that will arise" that I see how or how the Government or how the ministry predicts that the application of this law will reflect precisely on these statistics that have been given by the assessment of the situation. Then with much more responsibility and much more brains, you could actually say, that it's good to pass this law and it's good to bring it right now and as soon as possible or we may even have to bring it a few months ago or say you know what might be better if we passed this law a few months later or even years later. This is how it all stays actually in some domain, I would say bureaucratic reasoning, it is good to bring Croatia's legislation into line with European Union legislation as soon as possible, and I don't really know if it's right whether it's sooner or later. From the reasons for this bill, it turns out that we in Croatia are actually looking forward to our livestock entering the open market. According to the promoters, we therefore have all the conditions for an open market. Personally, me and me at the HSP club think we don't have all the conditions for an open competition, and we still need a little more time, a little education, and an education of cattlemen, so we can set aside a few million kunas for that, and then maybe we'll be ready for the conditions of the open market. Here he would therefore ask indeed the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture to say how much they actually know about the state of Denmark and what it has fought for in the European Union in terms of agriculture, especially livestock, and these parts of the production and consumption of milk and other parts that matter to us. Have they studied what the Danes have actually insisted on and when they were in fact harmonising their legislation regarding livestock farming with the legislation of the European Union? It would also be good to study what Iceland thinks and what is, in fact, the real reason that Iceland is not a member of the European Union. I believe, of course, that they, like me, know that Iceland's first and only basic reason and argument is exactly livestock. If we were to study these examples, then it would be really convenient, and in this way we would all learn a little about good agricultural policy together, but not only what good agricultural policy means, but we might see little about it and what it means to defend and adequately represent national interests, so if it is necessary for the law to be passed, that is to say, in order to bring our legislation into line with the legislation of the European Union. Because I repeat once again, in some areas it is good to bring this legislation into line with EU legislation, and in some areas it is important that we do so as soon as possible. When it comes to livestock, I think it'd be better if it was later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77965	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77966	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yeah, what do you do? I also agree and share my opinion with all those who say the situation is alarming and I also claim that today's opportunities in agriculture and livestock are not better than they were in 2003 and in 2003 they were nothing better than they were in 2000, and to God, no matter who wins in the next elections, the opportunities for three years will not be any better in this country than they are in 2002. Well, let's take it this way. So the assessment of the situation and I'm just going to try to look back at this numerous state of tables 1, the production balance and the consumption of milk tables 2, then the increase of cattle tables 3 etc. In 2000 there were 427 thousand cattle in this country. 2003. 444 thousand cattle, so plus 17,000 pieces. In 2000, there were 287 thousand cows and heifers, in 2003 there were 280 thousand cows, meaning the mine of 7,000 pieces. In 2006, we have 485 thousand cattle or plus 41 thousand from 2003. In 2006, we have 273,000 cows minus 7,000 pieces compared to 2003. So come on, let's say this. From this government 41 thousand pieces of cattle more and 7,000 cows less. Pigs. In 2000 there were a million 233,000 pigs and in 2003 a million 347 thousand or 114 thousand. In 2006, we have a million 230 thousand pigs or minus 147 thousand from 2003. A pig. There's a situation with the sows. We'll see the next one. From January 3rd let's do this to 23.11.2003 plus 16 thousand pieces, from 23.11.2003 to today all plus a thousand. I wouldn't have performed this way if we hadn't received this budget book in 2007 for the even development of Croatia, so they were comparing material expenditures or budgetary achievements for 2007 compared to 2003. And now that we're not dating sheep and others, because we could have so much fun to the unloved, maybe we should talk like my predecessor talked about importing, that is. exporting agricultural products, but what we're going to do when we're almost dare to say nation absurds because there's nothing worth doing in us, I don't know, in us, the more you're doing the less you have, and then you just have to call on this or that status, and you all expect to get out of the state, but it can't go on forever. Finally, in this country, it is becoming two or three times more expensive than in one Australia or in America, and at least 50, 60, 70% more expensive than in the European Union. Now let's take this table on page 3 on importing milk. Great, the import's getting smaller. In 2002, we imported 209 thousand tonnes, in 2005 importing 157 thousand 807 tonnes. It's shrinking from the other side, and the exports are going to say that somehow that system looks like it's just organizing. However, this Law on cattle does not speak of what is most important, and later I will analyse the provision in accordance with the provision. I will not purposely discuss the import of agricultural products that Mr. Rosic spoke of. It's cca at this point 2 billion dollars without lidel which in one open position in its shops puts out five in a small shop and then it's a small store, except I'll say that the export of County of Istria is now as Primorje-goranska, Split, Dubrovnik, Sibenik together. Clearly not thanks to agriculture but to industry, to the heavy industry, and if we do not reach some consensus on exports primarily on the location of industrial plants, one morning we will wake up not only with these stories about the overindebted land we may be aware of but also as a country that will not be able to service its debts. We must clearly tell both citizens and green and non-governmental associations and environmentalists, etc. That without industry, this country will collapse, and that it can only live on tourism from some organic agriculture, that's just bullshit. No Istria can do that, let alone Croatia. Finally, in Istria, tourism wastes below 30% in industry over 40%. But let me go back to this cattle law. I mean, the key isn't these provisions that we're discussing today. The key is for every peasant country, a country that is still largely state-owned, to become the property of our farmer, but the country must have one different ownership status. I advocate it means that the land is sold to farmers at a symbolic price, but that the farmer cannot trade the land, that's the point. So I'm saying he's going to be given a metre per kuna for 10 years, to follow interest only at inflation level, but if he wants to sell it one more time, before he offers it to the state at the same price he's earned it. That detail is missing in our law. Concessions on the other hand don't mean much to farmers especially not for credit, etc., they have to acquire it, but once again I'm going to say they could sell it for just as much, so first they have to offer the state so if the state won't let them move forward on the market on their own. It's supposed to be the essence of this law. That's not what you're talking about. There are no peasants without land, and we have to figure it out. I don't know if you're following any events in Istria, not to mention some municipalities. All around the agricultural land is blocked, there is no sale, let's rent something, and right here in these areas of the Republic of Croatia because of the barbaric war exodus when that area leaves almost 140 thousand people, over 33% of the land is owned by Croatia, the average is if I'm not wronged about 8% and in Buijština over 40%. I'll take this opportunity to ask the secretary of state what's with the tomato processing plant, i.e., a pomidor in Umag, and why Podravka is squirming to start building a new plant. As far as the law itself is concerned, I don't care about these passports that were spoken of here for the hooves. Article 4 is absolutely correct to protect its bee. Article 12 is absolutely fine, with spatial plans or should take care of our village even if it is not always a problem, I say, administration. More often farmers, mostly along the border city centres, want their land to be urbanised because it increases the value overnight by 30 or 50 times, and it is easier to deal with land resales, some construction activities than agriculture. I welcome Article 12(2), which reads that within 30 days, it gives the ministry an opinion, and if the farmer does not get that opinion, and it goes beyond as though the opinion was given positively. So, for building an object, etc. And that might be a key article of this bill. Now only if in Croatia any of the small peasants can meet the conditions then for that cattle production without the country when the loans for them are absurdly expensive, and when they contribute to the location, the building permit is abnormally large. So to get to one plant, say, a thousand-metre-square barn, you have to allocate about 500 thousand kuna for administrative costs. No one in Croatia who deals, I don't know, there's no agriculture that could cover it or that expenditure. No such drive, say, can pay for a thousand squares if it's all neatly trying to settle. So we also need to talk about it. Which is worth the cattle law when people mean they can't get to the ground, when people can't go into the construction of one such barn, when people on the other hand don't have a market, when we import everything and there's not one elaborate policy that will convince citizens, I don't know, that domestic is domestic. That yours should be respected, that yours should be appreciated, and that yours should be clearly served. We did it somewhat, we see, with wine but everything else is based on ruthless imports, and where we managed to reverse the way of thinking that our best, there goes to 0.0 spills and simply the whole production is ruining. Clearly, citizens on the other hand, I agree, would buy their own if it weren't so rudely expensive, but what are you going to do? Our peasant would fall apart within two days if he offered his goods at the prices of goods from the European Union without talking about prices from the United States. Finally, let's relieve people who want to deal with agriculture before all this great administration, let's let them get to the ground. Because without it, they'll have all their hard work and I think without it in this country some better ratios and parameters won't happen in production or in a number of livestock states than in 3 years we'll be able to conclude that the opportunities are no better than they were in 2006, when unfortunately they're nothing better than they were in 2003. There are several other good measures. Mr. Kurtov was talking about support for the stables, 50% return from the investment, etc. But once again, I would like to stress that, with the policy of these spatial plans, it is necessary to make it clear to the villagers to raise these plants and as much as possible to free them from these additional costs for the outreach of local, or building permits, and what should be the emphasis of state policy is that our peasant can reach the ground. Clearly, not to trade with it, not to go to construction entrepreneurs, but to stay in the country, to ensure the existence of its descendants, and in case he dares to abandon it because it is not always said that he will be able to deal with it under the same conditions under which he was given the country he should give it up again, or offer it to the state, and then the state should decide whether to buy it or not. If the state says no, we're not interested, then let the peasant distribute with it at will. Thank you. And as for the law, we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77967	This was a little vague in the end. ... It wasn't talkative, it wasn't eloquent in the end. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] To keep it unspeakable? At 10.44, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is a respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77968	Dear Mr. President, I love the commitment of Damir Cain to an Istrian country, a three-way Istrian country, and therefore I am correcting its incorrect quote, which reads as follows: "The opportunities today are difficult, and in three years it will not be any better." Do not give the Istrian country, great Caine, and the opportunities will certainly be better, regardless of the current opportunities in Croatian politics, which has nothing to do with the situation over the next 3 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77969	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77970	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain who says, "You cannot live from tourism." It can be lived and Croatian agriculture could also live on condition that tourism would function as a Croatian agriculture, and if it were done the opposite of what is now being done, which is that 70% of the need for food and food products is imported for Croatian tourism purposes. If that were to end, Croatian agriculture would have jumped already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77971	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77972	Thank you, Mr. President. It's an incorrect statement and it's very pessimistic the more you do, the less you have. The exact data is quite the opposite. If you do, then you have a 6% growth in industrial production in the third quarter last year denied your claim and 15% of capital products that are not consumption but will end up in further production, 6% when we're already on food only, and the profit tax that has doubled since 2004 more than doubled by 2007 shows that our companies that are doing products have more and more and more, and this one would probably be worth only on one condition if you produce losses you have more, and which smart entrepreneur will insist on producing losses? Not one. And it's a very suspicious claim that this country is very poor. With compassion for the truly poor, it is questionable to talk relatively about a poor country where 100 thousand people are coming to the opening of the 20th centre or where, within a few days, poor citizens deposit 2 billion, out of stockings. So it is very questionable how we measure the standard, measure poverty and control the grey economy and income that are neither in the budget nor in the other paragraphs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77973	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77974	This Regulation shall enter He wasn't correcting my incorrect allegations. He was polishing me. Speaking of winnings, you know where she comes true? In banks. Why? To be. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77975	Mr. Cain, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. It's about correcting your allegations. So how can you go? How can you obviously claim something else that is clear to everyone? Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77976	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain incorrectly said that the production of wine was ruined by the introduction of a 0.0 bill of law. That's just not true. First of all, you could look at the statistics and see that this production is growing. You could have been interested so you could see that they use incentives for new plantations, so people plant new plantations, vineyards, I say that out of my knowledge because I come from the area, from Dubrovnik-Neretva County where new crops are created daily and wine production is growing. So the production of wine is not ruined. That legal provision actually tried to save lives, people's lives and reduce the number of traffic accidents. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that accidents continue to occur under the influence of alcohol, but it certainly has nothing to do with wine production. It has something to do with something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77977	And distinguished representative Ivo Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77978	Dear Mr. President, in his speech, colleague Cain found that peasants could not obtain permission in due course and that this is a very difficult way. I assure you that with the help of the local community, especially when you talk about the communal contribution that it is within the jurisdiction of the units of local administration and self-government and to the occasion. Self-government, excuse me. And all the councils are responsible for liberating such ones, one example is my municipality where within five, six months from the beginning to the end you have to get complete papers, start building and it should be a state model if the state actually accepts that maximum Croatian agriculture, Croatian product on the Croatian table.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77979	Thank you. Representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77980	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. Here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming, which proposes further harmonisation with EU rules on technology, which is an obligation under the National Programme for the Accession of the European Union in 2006 and the adoption of provisions which contribute to increasing the competitiveness of livestock production. The current Law on livestock farming in most parts complies with the conditions of breeding and production, breeding and animal production and the establishment of the production is governed by the hygiene conditions of keeping domestic animals, food quality, quality of products of animal origin and inspection supervision. The livestock production as the most significant branch of agricultural production is located in the period of adapting to new conditions not only in the open market but also in the change, primarily due to the social structure of the village, the growth of the size of the production unit, the growth of production by animal and the reduction of animal holders. Certainly operational programmes in beef and pig farming contribute significantly to changes and the need to adapt new conditions in this agricultural sector. Amendments and additions to the Law on livestock are created legal basis for the implementation of the Directives and decisions and are allowed to adopt implementing rules and to clarify the question of the following paragraphs: the form and content of relatives and certificates of origin, as this proposal provides for inclusion in breeding and selection work, which so far has been a problem in the establishment of breeding books because there are very often no accurate data on the origin of an animal. The passport and the way in which it is issued shall also be aligned with the European Union, because the hooves in the entire organisation of the European legislation take a special place and have special treatment in relation to all types of domestic animals. The passport and identification document issued by the competent authority holding the breeding books or the register or which is responsible for the execution of the competition of the equidae. It also regulates the way of the competition of hooves which has not so far been governed by the legal rules, the rules of competition and the means of ensuring the means to contribute to the development and improvement of the breeding of hooves are drawn up. There is also a way to monitor the results of the competition and the system of data delivery in competition. Next, there is a clearer definition of bee, a grey bee, meaning the indigenous breed in our Croatia as we have heard and what is very important is to adopt a regulation where maltene is the only domestic animal, where it is prescribed that only a certain breed can be grown which lies in the need of the preservation of our genome, and also with a number of advantages, i.e. the importance of the health features of this bee and a more efficient organization of conductive breeding work, breeding associations and alliances. In the section relating to the conditions of production in... It is proposed to introduce and use bee pasha cadastres, the introduction of an education programme for breeders, which is very important mainly in specialised farms where the production results depend heavily on the professional training of breeders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've heard here from the secretary of state that these implementing operational programmes are already almost 96 cattle, 30 commercials, meaning around 130 cattle, cattle farms and pig farming, which has recently started. We already have 3 already passed national commissions, but there are many more demands on the ground. Here I would like to point out that 50 cow farms, these are investments somewhere around 2 and a half million, but the operational program of pig farming goes up to 9 and a half million kuna and what counterpart Cain says is no better. It is certainly better in the incentive system for cattle farms 500 thousand, for the operational programme of swine husbandry up to a million kunas, and it is safe to educate breeders in such investments because such a large investment is really hard to carry both in the long term and very quickly it is possible to get into trouble and also the state through these operational programmes ensures that the breeder must have absolutely no mortgage but 50% of the mortgage is provided by HBOR and 50% of the mortgage is provided by HAMA. Effective disposal of manure for environmental protection but also tomorrow conditioned... Incentives for the same production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our terms, this will be linked to the achievement of support under the IPAR programme and the conditions that must be met in the adoption of spatial plans will be laid down. Here we have heard about this issue that problems face, but surely I too advocate that existing objects should be legalized. However, whoever the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection but would also like to appeal to the units of local self-government when it brings its spatial plans not to look at conditional throats, not to reduce conditional throats means, keeping animals in building areas because the fact is that everything we mention in Europe should be essentially made possible in the area of holding and as many farms as possible, and also with a number of conditional throats, but of course it is necessary to respect the given technical norms, laid down regulations, and this is all related primarily to environmental protection so that we already have examples down in Slavonia that certain municipalities do not know what they would like to be more Catholics than the Pope, and then maltene in the narrow areas, in the settlements of thousands of minority people prohibit the keeping of animals which is certainly unacceptable because of what the area and what Pankretic said should be more specific areas, so specific and similar. It is necessary to give more favourable opportunities to raise these farms both within construction areas and outside construction areas, but in any event it is necessary to respect environmental protection standards or to preserve nature means that there is no adverse effect of these productions on the environment. In the end, what I mentioned about the ban on slaughter is simply very difficult by administrative banning the destruction of the rejuvenation of a certain category of animals. It's certainly more of an economic category than an administrative ban, and then basically the people flee to the gray economy, slaughter themselves in the courtyards, slaughter themselves in black, etc. We've seen examples and fights against the gray economy. In a way, that fight began with flour, continued with slaughterhouses, and you saw what it looked like. In fact, the economic category should be introduced and stimulated as the secretary of state said a thousand 800 kuna incentives for domestic farming... I think these measures mean an economic category to prevent slaughter or to get as much production as possible in these branches of agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the last thing I said was economic, so here are some today we were discussing the state budget, and surely these two and a half billion that go into fostering agricultural production, which are bigger than before or more than many years before my colleague Cain says is no better. That's really not true. It is also the budget that proves that it is better, however, to look at conservation, to take care of the maintenance of these villages, to maintain production and to ensure that these amendments and additions to the Law on livestock farming are nevertheless crumbs, the basis for the adoption of implementing rules and are certainly going towards improving agricultural production. And I also dare say the recently debated population law, and there is also a concern that the people remain in the country and in the countryside is certain that agricultural production has one of the leading places in the development of the rural area. I have to, I didn't want to correct the incorrect allegations, but when we talk about raising farms, then we dare say, now the problem is forest land. Let's remember recently when we talked about entrepreneurship areas on forest land near the settlement, etc., then we weren't for but now I'm using to say in some political way and now we're for, forest land to go for that purpose. In any case, however, the whole philosophy should be better regardless of what it is. Are these entrepreneurship zones, farms, etc. It is certain that entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in agriculture should be provided with as good conditions as they can achieve their production, their lives and the future of the whole of the country and their territory. Thank you very much, and I support the law anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77981	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77982	Thank you very much. I'd say, Mr. Tomic's colleague claims that he'll be able to stop by economic measures by slaughtering calves. He won't. I think that, in any case, it is necessary to use administrative measures because, unfortunately, Croatia is the only almost country in Europe in which we unfortunately slaughter a 100, 150-pound body. You know that in all other countries it's moved at least it's being produced and whether it's 220 kilos above that. We have this one specific instrument, and I think letting go of everything just the economic measures right now is not good, so let's leave even administrative measures until we get into one situation where we can talk. I think this is too fast. It follows some of the European Union's guidelines and I think we should get pregnant here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77983	Replica, esteemed Valter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77984	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, Tomic, mentioning Mr. Cain's words that it's no better. And nothing much has changed the state of the producer in this case of cattle growers because the black market still hasn't stopped so cattle growers really aren't any better. And that's exactly what Mr. Cain said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77985	Replication response, respected representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77986	Okay. Mr Cain was not only decided to cattle farming, but I continue to argue that it is certainly better than in 2003, that 2009 will certainly be better than today and in livestock and also in agricultural production. Please, since 2004, a lot of problems in agriculture have been solved. I'm free to say number 1 wheat store after that you remember that we had in the valley of Zrmam trouble both with watermelons and with vegetables. All these problems have been solved and today my gentlemen tell me where a agricultural producer cannot sell a quality product to this country. The other thing is what prices are, cost-effectiveness... However, the fact is that in agriculture, however, over the last years, the story has changed and that production is somehow more secure than it used to be when it did not have a retail placement of products, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, both the state and these large and commercial chains, both manufacturers and the food industry, have created a framework that is somehow safer in some way, going into some production than before. So I'm saying, there's got to be a better situation today than it was three years ago and it's sure to be better in 2009 than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77987	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77988	Your Honor, Mr. President, the reasonable speaks for this law and the heart against it. Since I'm only one man, I'm going to show myself weaker this time, and I'm going to vote to the heart against this law. In fact, when I listen here to HSS support this law and they're experts in this area, I'm a little embarrassed to speak, but I think that this law kind of metaphysically kills the Radic brothers for the second time. Consider the needy now to wake up and see what civilization's implications for the application of this law will be. See what the Gruntovians of the new generation will look like when they're filmed for up to a few years. So it's going to be people who will have computers, who will have horses, who will have birth certificates, who will have passports. They're going to have a system of technological production, and in this search somehow, I found an argument in my heart, and it's about the anecdote of the first animal farm I saw in Cavtat back in '86, '87. It was a chicken animal farm on Boris Vukbrat's property. That was the first time I saw unfortunate chickens live to die and lay eggs in animally unacceptable conditions. Why am I saying that this farm from a long time ago comforted me? Because this gentleman was Stanet Dolanca's personal friend, and with JNA, he entered Konavle. So if something was good for him, I don't think it can be good for me personally. In general, I think that this law dodes to a civilization and it would be good if not only economic, economic, economic, profit-making and civilization simulations were made to see how pastoral, rural, civilization life would look, whether the memory of the first president of the anti-fascist Croatian Parliament of Vladimir Nazor and his shepherd Lodu would be part of a civilization that the future generation would not understand at all. In general, I think we have an urge to try and define here a little bit complicatedly through the work of the Czech Republic Milosha "The Incarcerated Mind". There in the work somewhere at the beginning, the President of the Parliament read it, so he will remember, he recalls the spread of the new religion of communist faith in the former countries of Central and Eastern Europe, people felt depressed especially by the old citizen type, and then some secret merchants appeared with pills that passed on ideological consciousness. They were called multibing pills. Whoever took that pill immediately began to believe in communism and became suddenly happy. I think there's something going on in Croatia today in this high house. This is about Eurobing pills. So, all people think it's fantasticly important, useful in Europe, that it's in the best Croatian interest and that's why when I look at Mr Kovacevic, I'm glad. Yesterday I saw him angry and anger is not a good recommendation to reason. And good to stick to this profession, it's obviously well understood. In that sense, I remind you of the fact that this law is passed to consider two things. The first is a flock of Lipicaners who are still in Serbia, they are special war prisoners. We're going to normalize relations with Serbs, trade with them, together we'll have breeding and breeding companies. The retail chains are being opened soon. Anyway, more or less, history goes back to the big steps and I personally, when it comes to mastering, I have nothing against it, but I would like to see those lipisanaires, especially since the father of the lipicanaire I rode on St. Gera was not only killed ferociously but was raised on a crane by four legs and his paintings were published all over the world as a demonstration of the cruelty of that army. Therefore, these unfortunate slaves on this occasion deserve a better destiny. Finally, today he would say something about this day on the occasion that we are discussing today, which is the Day of Marking Protests Against Family Violence. Mr. President, women and ladies, me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77989	That's what I'll say at 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77990	I have my two minutes and I want to say something about the hypocrisis. In the last issue of one week, six pages are dedicated to the fair condemnation of Ljubomir Cucic, former ambassador to his esskelenica of the old coalition government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77991	Comrade Letica, please. Let's not do that, stick to the subject. And I'll tell you about this lady. Let's not do that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77992	Mr. President, am I the only person you never know how to use your ten minutes, just tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77993	Well, sure, you can. But how you're going to get into court now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77994	It's not a trial. You're not as focused as usual when I speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77995	Don't, please, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77996	Then I'm going to say something about two little things and these are these unfortunate and beautiful bees, gray bees. Now I've spoken to Zeljko Ledinski whether it's consistent with... Grey bees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77997	Okay, if bees fall into cattle, but it's around here somewhere, bees go somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77998	Let me tell you what the level of the evil orwelovese fate of this law is. I'll only quote article 6th paragraph 7 that asks animals for something that we don't ask of us people. I'll read that article that's very interesting. It says this: "When the breeder does not meet the established breeding and reproductive conditions, the authorised person proposes to secrete from further breeding use and informs the breeder, the breeding organisation and the livestock inspection thereof.". Look, colleague Kovacevic, I'm a friend of the Animal Friends Society. Think of the conditions we lay down for unfortunate animals. Let's look around, and that's what I'm saying. And I ask you gentlemen to believe that this law is not filled with joy and that pastoral life in Croatia will not be filled with joy. And if there were to be a little more consultation between anthropologists, ethnologists, historians of culture, the late Stipic and Pavel Radic and at least to give the unfortunate HSS part of the assets that have been taken away from them by different authorities, it returns to everyone why they should not return... And the HSS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u77999	And as you say, fellow Letica, paraphrasing the animal farm, all animals are equal, only some are more equal. Honorable representative, Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78000	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, he's right, fellow Letica, but there's something else I need to tell you. Normally, it's all funny because he doesn't take it as a job to do, and Branimir Glavas himself who he put in that place told me he made a big mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78001	Leave yourselves, stick to the replica, not something that... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78002	He also finds it funny that Croatia is in debt. That's right. Which, gentlemen, is my business product. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78003	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78004	That's right. I have a right... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78005	You have to replicate...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78006	So he thinks it's funny that the Croatian farmer is failing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78007	Nothing's funny to anyone. Don't think it's funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78008	That's right. I'm replicating my colleague's flight and telling me what Branimir Glavas told me, that he made a huge mistake making him, that he installed him for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78009	Please, just leave it alone. This is offensive one behavior...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78010	It's not offensive. I'm talking about the words of a gentleman, no, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. President, you didn't make it here, Kali. I'm speaking, replicating my colleagues to Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78011	You can't talk the way you talk. That's not allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78012	I speak the way Mr Branimir Glavas told me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78013	That's not allowed what he said to you, apparently.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78014	He probably told you that, too, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78015	Nothing. Leave it alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78016	I'm not gonna let that go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78017	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78018	I must say that the inconclusive behaviour of the secretary of state, I have time, unserious behaviour of the secretary of state, while Letica speaks of such important matters, that nothing has been done in the area of agriculture this three years for HDZ authorities. Although the situation is even worse, that we know how big the food imports are, that we know how big the rebalancing of Croatia is and that Croatia is increasingly in debt and the secretary of state is laughing. And you're interrupting it. Well, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78019	The secretary of state is not allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78020	... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78021	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78022	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78023	Yeah, yeah, yeah. And second of all, I'm giving you a heads-up about this offensive performance. Here you go, fellow Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78024	On behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights, I ask that the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure do this by violating the Rules of Procedure to reconsider. Don't act like...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78025	Unfortunately, no appeal can be made against the decision on a tensile measure. Here you go, fellow Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78026	You got it. On behalf of the HSP Club, I'm looking for... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78027	Here you go, colleague Letica. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78028	... about the law that is before us. [[Specially enabled.]] And I'll read you an old Jewish "Below the Carpathian End".", she will be instructed to fight in this House. "If two are fighting and one is good 55% right it's very good and there's no reason to break up. If 60% is right, it's wonderful, it's good luck and let Mr. God thank you. And what to say for 75% right. Blue people say it's very suspicious. Okay. And 100%? One who says he's 100% right is a bully, a terrible thief, and the biggest scum.". I would generally like to not insist in this House that someone is quite right. I didn't want to tell you anything, but I wanted to say that I was talking about the Animal Law, and we're going to discuss this in other places.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78029	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78030	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with Assistant Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I would much prefer to discuss Croatian agriculture, Croatian agriculture model, regionalisation, protection of domestic breeds today, and not to list 10 other topics, but to bring one legal text into line with the European Union. There has already been a speech that should not be given to the old "Greek in Straw" or "Who geese in fog" and at any cost the goal of entering the European Union to subdue all the actions in a way that we actually blur things out to the end and that in this blurred situation we do not know how to manage. Namely, what happens under the cover of adapting Croatian agriculture and that we adapt and enter the European Union as soon as possible? Now just an example that I think the time has come to correct and that we need to react quickly. The system of state support for fostering agriculture, forestry and fisheries at this time produces negative effects in the country so great that we have decomposition to small and large and that our village dies, that our village is actually ahead of such a process where if there is no new industrialisation and migration from the village again, and we fail to stop the measures in part of the agricultural sector, one part of the social policy we have made one big mistake. In fact, we have to be socially sensitive to little and big alike. Now the distribution of the state cake to the great favors. The kid doesn't die to inherit it. I am talking about it for this reason and we are warning that we must not prescribe European models and the European way of managing agriculture because we are different after all. In fact, if you remember in the first draft of the law, it was said that the so-called "no" would be prohibited. our cabins as a traditional one inheritance, under special conditions etc. It would only be allowed. However, we have managed to avoid this possibility and bring on ourselves a great anger of all our farmers from the village, and the bogs and those who live in cities come to pay homage to fill their own boxes and have something to live on. Sometimes it's a need sometimes it's just a luxury, but anyway. And if it's just 1/3 of agricultural production, it's already very important and there's a response to the gray market and that market and how our standards and everything together. So that's where we find understanding and all the honor of avoiding it. However, we should have taken a step further. We have to protect it. This must be our speciality when we enter the European Union to enter with one tradition that is special and that no one will ever forbid or tell us that we must not do this because they too have protected their specialities. So as we adapt to Europe, let us make more effort on this of our own. Let's protect, now quick on the domestic breed of cattle, and not so much now of fashion and import... black, red, I don't know what kind of, forgetting our 100-and-a-half-year tradition of symental, which is al couples now European and equally seas are worn both in genetic potential and productive and all together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it also provides the peasants with a double opportunity, both milky and meaty, and not that we're just setting ourselves up for milky because our farms have a bit of a problem for the rejuvenation, and that probably also resulted in this provision of the Law to allow the slaughter of the calves because it's not for the other to be slaughtered, such a calf not to be loaded. But that's why, for the time being, administrative symentals should be banned from slaughtering to, say, certain weights, 200 kilos or 220 as we speak about that first degree of this farming, and let black hospice be slaughtered at 100 kilos or 120 kilos whenever he wants, because he doesn't have an economic justification to keep on loading. And it needs to be discussed openly and there are real topics about how we protect agriculture and we give the possibility of further progress. Furthermore, we in this Law are mainly correcting those injustices of competition, relatives, who should deal with it or not. I remind you that the ministry is responsible for all the processes that take place in agriculture and only the ministry that has no vision and does not know what to do will lead us to the wrong side. Therefore, the Croatian agricultural model must respect all its specificities from the smallest agricultural producer to the largest, from the most invaluable agricultural production which seems economically unwarranted but has a multiple role in the maintenance of landscapes, to preserve tradition, and ultimately those irreparable losses or benefits it has, we do not die or assess. Because don't forget when we're left with the field, there's no mechanism that can sustain it except the human hand. The human hand is eternally sustaining all this what, we boast as a state that we're clean, that we're environmentally acceptable, that we don't know, for various trips to the god of the day of the state, but all that while we have a man, while the people are on that ground. The more we run out of those lovers in nature, and I remind you that he's a peasant, and that's what the old Pankretić was saying, the only one who knew how to make products with God and earth. All of this other if chemistry is involved, if the industry is involved it is not blessed in the way it was and it should be. So let's pay more attention to protecting domestic production, protecting ours, here's one example of the gray bee. We could have mentioned our symental guy the same way. We wouldn't have gotten the crown off our heads and nothing would have happened to us. We could've known what other cattle to mention or other species, nothing would've happened to us. Is there a place in this law or another, but we need it. And yet to mention, one of the security of agricultural production is secured only when the state does not view it as a productive, economic branch, but rather when it is a political issue. All the time, we haven't politically determined ourselves against agriculture, and we're not helping in the sense that we should. So let's say once and for all, we're interested in whoever has one cow, let's get that 500 kuna for that cow's incentive. One hectare that handles get those 2,000 250 or a thousand 500 as much as the incentive. For every production that contributes to the welfare of this country, we must have equal consideration. Because so far below the level of incentive, we're left with 1/3 of the surface, we're left with 1/3 of the livestock production, and you see when it happens when it's worth it, and in what way and what problems are found. You know we keep leaving for milk those 6 thousand acres where we only and still have understanding for those little ones, but we have to do that, too. Let me look back at the incentive when it comes to it. Don't succumb, and I assure you, the village is following this whole situation well. How big they play like that you dance. I'm sorry, but now you're inciting on the junior, he's extremely stimulating, but give us the data, once out, who gets those incentives. In my village one, and we produce across, I don't know, 2,000 cows. You have to imagine how many there are, that at least there are 50% of these female calves. Everything stays in the loop, we don't want to get any incentives. What do we not die for? Because such administrative measures are imposed and peasants are not yet prepared for this production. And it should be objectively debated and not objected to just the peasant why he is not organized but to meet him so that he can accomplish it. And these are rural measures, this ministry because it is literally said, the ministry is responsible for implementing all the measures implemented in politics, especially agricultural policy. And just that, for a second, I also welcome the appreciation that building a farm must be adapted to a spatial, spatial plan, so that people don't really freak us out when we get the paper, but beyond the territory that such farms can be built clearly with the agreement of local communities and spatial plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78031	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78032	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I want to replicate my colleague Kolara. It's not certain this Law is clouding. This law is still a small step forward, and as you say, we must not blindly prescribe laws. Absolutely because we're really specific. However, in certain segments and laws and all legislative regulations, we need to prescribe laws and as regards environmental protection and as regards the organisation of production, what I have spoken within and outside of the building area, spatial plans, etc., and in the quality of production should be prescribed, it is necessary to learn because exactly what you say about tradition. We will not destroy the tradition of necklaces in Slavonia, but don't let tradition be a social category in some way, important to be a cultural category so that we try to ensure these people, these nursing households income, and quality production, new technology to those breeders that as cheap as possible produce a product so that they can secure cheaply on the domestic market, and also that this product finally changes the story, that this product goes outside and then there won't be any such problems of import and export and what we're talking about coverage. So some things really need to be copied, in any case they need to be accepted, not to invent hot water, but to accept what's proven well, especially in the development of the rural area. I think it's still Europe and more experienced and in another system they were. We started to support it more significantly here a few years ago, I think some laws should be copied, and in any case specificities should be left behind, but let's not really create. Who says it's easy for a peasant to really have no idea in his life because it's the bloody bread he makes, but let's not make them a permanent social category, but we find a model for nursing households income. You see today everyone has come to a state-owned country of transport, a private-owned agricultural land that is 80% minority and gone. So it's still a policy involved, let's go aimly to improve agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78033	Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78034	Thank you very much. Well, we agree in principle, but here's what I'm going to do is remind the Secretary of State, the Assistant Minister, of us all together that we've simply succumbed to pressure and we no longer have the mandatory vaccination of pigs against swine fever. She showed up in Karlovac yesterday. Our country is now beginning to be an extremely risky state for production. Production, you who knew, tried to do business, is one special vision because it is a living creature that is subject to all measures, changes, etc. Don't rush, don't rush, conditions need to be created, conditions are long-term created, habits, schooling. I didn't say anything about school today because it's too short a time. I've got five educational semesters over at the High School of Economics and the Faculty of Agriculture. They even went for the informational description of young farmers 70 of them, now paid for the municipality and therefore we need to gradually introduce some things, not overnight and say we've solved it. We haven't solved anything. We're dealing with them now. How? From the state budget, with the budget of all of us to take care of it and maybe return the measure that has been effective so far because we haven't created the conditions yet so that we can rewrite some such laws and carry out such production. That's why I'm saying it. I don't speak by accident, I speak from experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78035	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78036	So here I would just supplement Mr. Kolar's exposure, we both come from the same mile, so from the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County and I have this fortune to be from this St. John's Frog where 908 for the first time came the first cattle of this symental farming and where it means in the hundred years of knowledge this cattle developed and today we can really, with full right, say that we are a step in Europe. But all I have to do is remind myself of the condition in which we found that village in the '90s, for 50 years. These villages had no asphalt, no electricity, unfortunately here are 50 kilometers from Zagreb, no water, nothing. By improving the infrastructure we helped people stay in the country, but as the crown of livestock production requires well you said the man. There are fewer and fewer people who can be and want to be 24 hours with their production, so be it big, small, whatever. So we need to be aware that this process of restructuring the population and the decline of the share of the agricultural population in the total population of several ten percent has passed in the painful five years hence in the war, and other countries have gone through at least 50 to 70, some and 100 years. So in a time of extremely great technology development, technology every day has some new scientific achievements in this area as well. So we have to say that our ministry and our peasant managed to catch up not so quickly because we don't have enough money, but in knowledge anyway. So, as president of the Governing Council of the High Agricultural University, I dare say in the exchange of students with foreign countries Croats do not have to be inferior, Croats have something to offer therefore also in the knowledge of Europe, but I must therefore say and support this tendency that we do not prescribe them by applying the laws and that is not the case, and the biggest problem I will tell you today is the gray market and it is not the wrong ministry. The ministry is doing everything in its power to bring order into production, but in that extreme traffic, inspections must be higher in the field. I have complaints from peasants from our county who have, in the system of VAT are input through an orderly account, but I can't give the goods to the account outside and I can't refuse the pre-tax, so here I'm asking inspection services to make more order and tax administration that needs to be controlled because the farmer needs that bill to sell the goods so that the whole system can be closed and we have to say that in our county we have an increase and number of livestock, that we have a smaller number of producers, so but a larger number of cattle, and that we are in some way these nursing households, which is unfortunately, we were talking about a national population policy problem that isn't just in agriculture, it's everywhere. So this problem is even more pronounced in the country because it requires much more physical work and everything else. So, by realizing these difficult problems, I support it together with you, of course, and what makes local self-government, but I think here I appeal this one should be, because we come at the time of year, so when the biggest one is almost said traffic from the 10th month to this northwestern part of the cattle and when these different cabins and New Year's are starting to put in so much traffic and in large shopping centres, so to help the peasants through the paper have traffic through that cattle to round their production through the OPG and through the VAT system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78037	Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78038	Thank you very much. It would be too short a time for me to have what I have at my disposal because it was a little longer, but good. It's not mostly. ... Everything's fine, though. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I'm allowed to say something. I respect the facts, and I think that if I said it wasn't helpful and it wasn't good to watch what Radic said, don't be a coward in your backyard, but the walls on the wolf and go to look further to see what's going on. So do we. We have to be all the time. I was fortunate to be on the harvest of rice this year, so I was fascinated by the organization, meaning production, sowing, irrigation, harvesting, placeing and all. This is if my colleague Cain was here. We have rice cheaper in retail than they do where... Imagine now the absurd, and they produce it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we found it means some substitution that it would be acceptable for us to consume it at all. I don't know what models but I know that. And what I mean. It takes us 50 years to get to that system, system, organization to come. I don't anymore. Some others do. But we also need a slow approach to adapting Croatian agriculture because a large number of households ultimately depend on the process. And when we figure it out, we won't be in a hurry. And believe me, Europe doesn't die to make us come in like the Bavarians, the Styrians, or I don't know who, but we want to become Croats or those who are now not to hurt some national minorities and all together but to be who we are. Croatian agricultural producers. Here to create conditions, so let them think of us, and let them want us like that, or I won't. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78039	Next replica, respected representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78040	Thank you very much. Just a brief replica of the esteemed colleague Kolar to the part of his presentation in which he spoke about the breed of cattle. I will compare Croatia to Austria or Bavaria, which does not mean that their models should be applied blindly. No, I don't. On the contrary. We should see what others do if they do well and according to our specificities simply establish a model but I repeat it in that way and in order for it to really be us. So here in the Croatian Parliament, we have heard various strategies and debates. They should have led to the production programmes and policies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in terms of and incentives, prior to regionalisation of production and other measures leading to approximately what is in Austria and Bavaria. It takes care that in the fast race for large milk production, the number of cattle, the number of animals, and the production of meat are not destroyed. There's a regulation there, based on it, that's what encourages it. At least 76% of the herd must be breeds of symental so mixed breeds, milky meat and the rest can then be exclusively milky breeds. That is why Croatia must also take care of this because it is a great opportunity for meat production. Let's not forget for a little while that in the '80s the June meat of a Croatian simenter was already a brand in Europe. So why wouldn't it be again? And just a little bit about swine fever? It is no longer vaccinated against swine fever not because of the hira, but because we want to break into the European market for pork. Today and there will be a long time for Europe to be hungry pork and this is our great chance and by strict law enforcement and by many other measures we can make order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78041	Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78042	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Kurečić, I fully agree with you, and that is why I have set the example of a symental man. In fact, with us, the symental was once over 80 percent, actually, of our domestic indigenous cattle, and where we achieved the highest results. And now it's this time, but not because of the ministry, I'm not saying it for them, but because of the commercial lobby, because if you remember those who were in '95, '96. when I was talking about this so-called. import chain one you give three sales. It was a fascinating profit and it was practically on the verge of crime either. And now it's happening that the peasant gets an overpriced repromatter, an import heifer place to be on our action sales, our cattle sold. Well, isn't it a shame we don't die in... at the state fair, selling hundreds of pieces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I sell 60 at my village action. So what are we talking about for God's sake? So is this a stimulant to the domestic producer to leave a female calf and to raise it because believe me, you do not grow fertilising material in this stuff, but it has to be specially grown and adapted to high production for it to be highly productive. What happens now in Germany, Romania buys cattle and imports from that stuff lasts 5 years, I have up to 6 years of information. Every year a 30-40% remont and people get into their big financial problems. Our simentar is grown in a traditional way of rearing between 10 and 12 calves. It has a reproductive potential of 70 and a few and it is spent at most 25% on the remont. Are we going to create a calculation now? The economist has calculated. You get big production, big remont, and in five years, you're actually at zero. You're starting from a new one. That's what I think this policy needs to be discussed and that's what I've been talking about, clearly everything in 10 minutes is not power but I agree absolutely that it should be taken care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78043	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78044	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Surely no one here is against the harmonisation of the law with the European Union, but obviously that we do not have to do this every year with the same law and several times and it is good that the Proposer finally proposes to make a consolidated text of this law because of the many changes I fear we no longer know what we have changed or what is in force at this time. I would really like to commend that we are investing in livestock farming, first of all, both in cattle and in pig farming, but I think that because we do not have any other meat enough or self-sufficiency and that we are planning and exporting, however, the fact is that we often try to be more rigorous than the European Union, because I really don't understand it, and that's what my colleagues here have been talking about these distances of farms. 'Cause let's just remember Austria. Farms are within an economic yard that is not large. And therefore, there's no problem at the farm. The problem is something else, and it's regulated this time. The problem is management of stasis manure. We've defined what kind of dumps should be, what kind of debauchery should be. Unfortunately, we haven't defined how to master stale manure and it actually makes a problem. I said it's good to regulate it here. Unfortunately, it's not a good thing we're leaving it behind again that it's going to be prescribed by the minister of sublaws. I would ask the secretary here because we have every other article of this law that the Minister of Lower Acts prescribes how much of these acts have been harmonised or prescribed so far, how many are waiting for them in some order, and that is why when we say so, we will prescribe, or the Minister will regulate the management of barn manure by means of a lower act. Well, gentlemen, we're detaching tens of millions of these farm-building hours, the farms are going to be built, which is going to be managed by that barn manure, if we're going to do it later when people start working, when these farms are working to find new investments. So if we want to prescribe it, we do it quickly, and we make sure that it's really the status and the lords and not just the delay. I'd also like to say something about the education that's here to welcome that it's the same, that finally education must be at the level because we're giving huge funds to farmers, they're in debt, often because of that and we're ruining it because we're not working parallelly on education. And we would just like to remind us here what Fran Kishler has warned us about, and as far as I know, the current adviser of the Republic of Croatia on agriculture, that he is the one who points out that Croatia has problems and too little investment in human resources, the lack of basic educational programmes for young farmers, a poor advisory system, that is to say, I will use a slightly more correct word, a weak, advisory system, a lack of quality marketing and vertical integration between producers and consumers. And now to come back. We have a large advisory service with trained, quality, educated experts. Unfortunately, I'll say it again, and I said it on one of the boards, that we turned them into clerks. They are a service that has been filled for days by piles of forms and administrations for the Ministry of Agriculture, at least on the ground, at least on farms, in the field, and it was exactly this advisory service that was expected and in this direction it was imagined to really be the bearer of new technologies and consultants to the manufacturer himself. When you talk about education, I said that I consider it positive, but I think it should be defined that those who are now starting to build farms, those who are entering serious projects already have that kind of education, especially when it comes to young people. Normally, people in years, people who go and upgrade the system, it's hard to ask today that they already have, but by teaching them to help them find, there are winter periods when they can be helped, when we can really help them with their profession. Because let's remember, and I think that it will also be in warfare, that it will be mandatory to apply even new, some new technological methods, pesticides that each such product will have to be tested by a warrior, and I suppose we still have to have a certain level of education here. It's a good thing we finally talked about protecting grey bees like our indigenous bees and limiting introduction, because I think it proved to be quality, and someone here already said it might be something we should be more serious about protecting. I want to look back here at the establishment of a bee cadastre pasture. Yes, of course, I just don't want that catastre to have the fate of a wine growing catastre, because we know that we've been trying to create that catastre for ten years. I'm afraid that rarely anyone in the Ministry of Agriculture can answer how many vineyards we really have right now. We know how much it's written in the cadastre, but unfortunately, it doesn't correspond nearly to the actual state of the field. I say it's here again, and the Minister will prescribe how the catastre will be run and looked, and I'm afraid that the implementing acts will pass for years, and by the time we settle it, I say if we go at the speed of the wine cadastre, I don't think we'll have that catastre in due course. The quality of the physical chemical properties of food. Yeah, sure. I remember the years until the '90s when every producer had to have strict control, it still has today, only today's control is still being done by those who have learned to do so in factories before. But we have a small producer who unfortunately one writes on paper, the other is in reality, because control is not enough, and on the other hand, I don't think our regulations are yet well defined when it comes to chemical and physical properties, or if the old problem of payment inspection, sampling, etc. is defined again. who controls and how he controls. In the end, the ban is lifted by the rejuvenation. I'll say yes, unfortunately yes. Because if all these years we haven't been able to control that our young man isn't slaughtering, then it's better not to have such a regulation than to have a nakarada of regulations. We failed, so let's put an end to it, and really let these economic measures try, it might be more effective. Skepsa is expressed here, but please, the fact that we failed by banning it like this. Therefore, by encouraging breeding, tov, etc. I think we have a chance to at least regulate the slaughter within certain limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78045	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78046	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague I'd like to briefly replicate regarding the examination of finished agricultural products on the market. The control system is well established, we have a lot, in every area of a lot of authorised laboratories, we have inspectors, but inspectors do not have the means for regular control of products on the market and it is a big problem in Croatia in particular little control of agricultural products on our markets, on small markets and on wholesale markets. What's in the shops is also controlled, the sanitary inspection takes some samples, but in the markets, so agricultural products in retail and wholesale are not controlled at all, it's a big problem that we have to take care of and deal with as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78047	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78048	My colleagues agree with you. I just said that the problem is both in the inspection and in paying control of the samples themselves because it is known if the sample fits the standard then it pays, or is paid from the budget, and then the inspectors prefer not to take it because they know that they do not have the funds and I especially say those smaller industries that did not exist earlier in the production of livestock feed, very often give it by the assessment on the market and I had the opportunity because I was a qualityist for 15 years and I know what it means and I had the opportunity to do an analysis that way for my soul to see what and what today's cattle food looks like. I think we should increase the inspection and their jurisdiction, but provide them with the means to cause, that they can really stand behind the quality of livestock food when it comes to both physical and chemical properties because health care is done by someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78049	Thank you. And a five-minute debate on behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78050	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State. So let your colleagues and colleagues here in five minutes to tell you the truth about this law. I don't think there's any questionable importance of livestock farming in me, I'd say total for the development of agriculture, but especially for the development of our village. And in the context of that, I would point out just a few irrefutable facts that I have come to, and I believe that you may know a lot of you, but which are very alarming. Today 183 villages in Croatia have a letter and a number of zero inhabitants. 2408 villages with less than 100 inhabitants, and two-thirds of all Croatian villages, ladies and gentlemen, have less than 300 inhabitants. Official data from the State Statistics Office. I can check myself out. Go to any village and check and see. The streets are half empty. Of the former ones of ours who are in the village of the cabin, a dozen houses at least 5-6 is empty. The problem is obvious, large, depopulation and what is a nursing home. The livestock production, for this reason, is extremely important in this particularly cattle production. And we have to mean with measures, and that's why I'm saying it in accordance with this part of trying to keep these people, try what we all swear, and that's that rural development, multifunctionality. So you keep people, help them be there, not make it impossible for them to do certain legal things. And so I pray that the part where we spoke and made it impossible, I would say that this young man in cattle, the slaughter and the calves were prevented. Let's leave, let's not just switch to economic measures. Let's make it administrative. It was a ban. She believes it would be good if she stayed. But something that we need here, particularly prominent secretary of state, which has made us particularly concerned at the HSS Club, so I would say, and in our thinking, it almost changed Article 32 of the existing Law. If that's true, I'm afraid we won't be able to support this. And that is, Article 32 says: "Home animals used for economic purposes are not allowed to give hormonal preparations to stimulate the growth, production of milk, meat, eggs or other production reasons. Unfortunately, in Article 14, Article 32 is amended and replaced, and this is excluded from this law. If this means that growth hormones, production and everything are allowed now and being kicked out of this law, then we are against this law and it's energetic, we think it's not good. We think that Croatia is very specific in that it can have this advantage to say in some way we have food that is not burdened with hormones, we have something that we can relate to other than our wonderful environment and all that, but healthy food that we seek to be organically produced, not that we now allow the use of hormones in this law. I'm looking for a safe answer to this, so I believe that this will depend on the support of our club. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78051	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs, today is November 24th. A pan-European parliamentary day to fight domestic violence against women. Interrupting for a few minutes our debate today, and we as parliamentarians and parliamentarians of Croatia are joining symbolically all parliaments of the member states of the Council of Europe who are now talking about the fight against domestic violence against women. With this act and the Croatian Parliament becomes part of a pan-European campaign, a campaign titled "Parliaments United in the fight against domestic violence against women". Violence against women in the family is characterized by various forms of violent behavior either physical, sexual, or psychological, and is often based on financial dependence. It's one of the most widespread forms of human women's rights violations. It happens in all countries. He doesn't know the geographical boundaries. There's no age limit. It's not limited to any race, nation. It happens in all kinds of domestic violence, in all kinds of family relationships and in all social environments. Representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament call on all competent state institutions to consistently implement all legal regulations, strategies and protocols that relate to the fight against domestic violence against women. We'll be as agents and as agents in progress... The campaign, which runs until 8 March 2006 in the Croatian Parliament, will be organised through committees in charge of discussing the effectiveness of legislative and other measures to combat domestic violence against women in the Republic of Croatia and to work to improve them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday, the Round Table was organised by the Committee on Gender Equality on the subject "Presenting Sexual Violence Against Women". Thus, the Croatian Parliament also joined in marking the parliamentary day, as well as tomorrow's International Day against Violence against Women. So respected MPs and MPs in this way and we symbolically, at a symbolic level, join all parliaments of the member states of the Council of Europe and join this campaign parliaments united in the fight against domestic violence against women. Final review by State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78052	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Namely, only a few discussions and several essential elements that were indicated in the debate would give a review. Here, when reference is made to Semetalic as a breed of dairy properties, it should be said that the Semetalic is not our breed, and in that sense we cannot protect it either as such, but what we have done and what we are working intensively on with the GZT Agency of the German Government which provides us with and certain assistance in accordance with the signed agreements that we have connected with our Baby Beef association and that through these activities we will try to protect the meat of the Semmental Beef that is grown in the Republic of Croatia and in a special way of eating where corn is used. And that's something that's been extremely well recognized in the Italian market for the past decades, and we're going to try precisely this system of protection of geographical indications and revitalize. So, we need to meet a series of conditions, but I say we won't protect the breed but we'll try to protect that high-quality meat I say recognized on foreign markets. Secondly, it was related to livestock food and this question asked by Mr Pankretic and stressed that our obligation to the MPP is to make a comparison with the quality of livestock food and health care. I must say that it is there at the end of next week that it will be in the government's procedure and then after that in the parliamentary procedure of the Food Act, the Food Act, which, due to the large number of amendments and alignment, will actually be a whole new law, so it will not go as changes and additions. And regarding this hygiene package, therefore, the European Union directives governing this area. It should be said that cattle are treated as well as food for humans. Therefore, livestock is treated in a healthy manner as food for humans and this hygiene package will be clearly prescribed and established. As for the debate on spatial plans, we absolutely agree here, we believe that part of the responsibility is also on local self-government. However, in a conversation with experts, what everyone thinks is why I don't know these 300-500 meters of farm transfer from the settlement is that these are relics and lags of that socialist combined approach in livestock farming where actually these huge farms that had a few thousand cattle clearly could not even be in settlements for environmental and technological reasons, etc. However, this new approach and these structural changes that are being made in this sense, so we also encourage small farms, so from forty, fifty, a hundred throats that are clearly neither an ecological threat nor a technological threat that can be found much closer to the settlement or in the village itself, and in that sense, certain changes should be made clearly. Also, what Mr. Kurt was saying we need to find a model of how to legalize all our farms because if they are not in that legal system later, it is also a question of the possibility of paying for incentives. So by investing in and setting up the paying agency and its accreditation, such farms will be placed in a very difficult position, and that is certainly what we are going to do after one of the analyses that we have given to carry out to see exactly what the structure of the farms, where they are, is what their condition is with regard to the documentation, etc. Next thing I know, I'm gonna have to show myself about this. Therefore, the harmonisation of this Law on cattle farming with the European Union directives is not, I would say, any harmonisation for any trend and fashion rather than, above all, for the sake of our own sense of purpose. In fact, at the last session when I was talking about the paying agency, when I was talking about those problems that Slovenia had in that segment. So, they've established after setting up the paying agency that almost 30% of their incentives are in the gray zone. This was not done by the agency, and today, when we introduce it, we are not doing it because we want to comply with European Union directives and EU legislation, but rather because of ourselves. It's the same thing with this cattle law. We do not do this for the EU but precisely for reasons to increase the technological level of our farms, to ensure animal health conditions and to ensure that our producers are primarily competitive in that European Union market. Therefore, these things and these changes are done primarily because of our producers. Also, Mr. Rozac said that we like to call on the open market, as if we were competing in it, because what comes sooner, that we can't wait, etc. The open market will come or come whether we want it or not. So this is not up to us, but what we must not allow our producers to welcome this open market unprepared. And these precisely are the matches when they go for the reason that our producers are in this sense preparing to raise the technological level, to raise the health level and to be able to deal equally with this open market with competition. It is also said here that we, at the request of the European Union, have increased the standards for the micro-biological correctness of milk. So that's something that's not true. The health micro-biological correctness of milk is primarily conditioned by manufacturers, and when we look at it, it is all because of our consumers. Therefore, these standards that we are introducing are also largely designed to ensure the health of our consumers throughout this system. He also said about imports and exports that we are constantly increasing food imports, that the ever weaker and weaker external trade balance is. However, I would only present the data, I would not comment on that finding. We have in the last year and a half recorded an increase in exports at 28% and an increase in imports at a rate of 13%. So, if we look at trendy then these are still encouraging trends and if we also look at the coverage of imports with exports in early 2004 and today's situation we today compared to those 45% coverage of imports with exports today have a coverage of 60%. So we think that these are still certain encouraging trends and that things are going in the right direction. We clearly cannot say that we are satisfied because food is still imported a lot, but that good trends clearly and explicitly confirm data and external trade balance. Also related to what Mr. Letica was saying. Mr. Letica, I apologize, I laughed because you had an inspired and witty discussion. So it wasn't from any expert. But what you said about passports, about relatives and about computerization, etc. So here we can talk about our tradition, ours I don't know about indigenousities etc. which we have to model and I don't know one French, Spanish, etc. which we have to protect and there is no, it's because of our manufacturer and because of their income, but also because I would say and for the protection of national identity. However, it is simply in a market economy that we cannot do without it. We must also provide a passport and a relative and documentation traceability, because without this traceability we first question the health of our consumers. We have seen with the example of that cow Shana, yes, which means that we do not have the traceability of the documentation, not have all these strong papers that we cannot determine where the disease occurred, and we have witnessed, especially in the European Union lately, what kind of zoo we are exposed to, and therefore precisely the traceability of the veterinary health documentation is crucial to protect our consumers first and foremost. I would only ask about these amendments, so there was an amendment to the Committee on Agriculture, that this second amendment be submitted, and we would do these additional consultations, if that's the case, so let's see if we can get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78053	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cattle farming. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and by agent Bozidar Pankretic State Secretary Dragan Kovacevic. [[Two has already accepted.]] Amendment of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78055	Mr. President, honourable MPs! The government accepts the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78056	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 1, Representative of Bozidar Pankretić, on Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78057	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78058	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. And Amendment 2, also representing Bozidar Pankretić on Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78059	Amendment 2, therefore, which reads about domestic animals used for economic purposes, is not allowed to produce hormonal preparations in order to encourage the growth, production of milk, meat, eggs or for other production reasons, with a view to fully accepting that if the representative agrees not to be an amendment to Article 14 but to 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78060	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78061	Thank you very much. So that's... accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please! Can we vote? The result? With 87 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would now move to a debate on the final proposal of the Arms Act. Since there are quite a lot of reports for this debate, then we'll have this debate and we'll end it at 13.30 and only if some shorter time is enough to close the debate and after 13.30, then let's say by 14.00 hours would be if the time comes. If you don't, then we'll break up at 13.30 with a break, after the break, continue voting on the discussed agenda points at 15.00 hours. Voting on discussed items of the agenda, except for a clear budget that goes to debate and vote 1.12. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of course, there will be a follow-up to the arms debate on Wednesday then. - Final proposal of the Arms Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 522 The proposer of the law is the Government. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Internal Policy and National Security, on Gender Equality and the Committee on European Integration. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Proposer representative, State Secretary of the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78063	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored MPs and MPs, here I will indeed be brief since there are many reported as Mr. President has said. I'm just going to repeat what was the fundamental goal of proposing and adopting this Arms Act. We are also aware that there are indeed too many weapons abuses in Croatian society, that many of the most terrible crimes committed by firearms, and that is why we wanted to make sure that this law is in a way that the weapons are under better control, that it is registered and that there is not so much abuse of weapons, especially when committing the most serious crimes. What may be most important in this law is the introduction of special conditions on the belief of health skills issued with a period of validity of 5 years. We witness that there have been many times in the abuse of weapons that the abuse of weapons in the most serious crimes has been committed by a person who was simply mentally, or medically incapable of holding and carrying a weapon. This is why we want to introduce these medical obligations every five years because we feel that this is a reasonable time limit to check the individual’s medical ability to possess weapons. We've also tried to define what it means to have someone to justify the supply of firearms. In Croatia there are plenty of weapons owned by natural persons, the most common reason for holding and carrying weapons is to deal with either shooting as sport or hunting but there are also a lot of weapons owned by individuals with the purpose of personal protection and security, so we have tried to define what it means to have a legitimate reason for obtaining and later holding and carrying weapons. An examination of the marking and verification of the technical correctness of the weapon is also being carried out and a gun book is being introduced. We think it is necessary for the weapon to be under control, but also that it is regularly checked and tested that this weapon is indeed technically correct and that there is no danger for its owner during its possible use, especially with the hunting and sports weapons used for the purpose of shooting. And what may be most important is precisely because of all the abuses most often made with weapons that are not registered, which are not legalized, a new model of surrender is introduced, voluntary surrenders of forbidden and permitted weapons. The weapon may always be surrendered and the person who submits it will not be prosecuted or prosecuted if he reports it to the competent authority for surrender prior to taking reconnaissance actions in accordance with the law. So I repeat again, the most criminal acts in which the means of making weapons, especially firearms, is committed with a non-legislative weapon. This is what we want to encourage all citizens who possess this illegal weapon to return it without sanctions because it will certainly contribute to the increased security of citizens and to the reduction of the number of serious criminal offences committed by firearms. Since the first reading, we have adopted some proposals and can say that we have adopted the Croatian Shooting Union proposals on the fact that they do not have to technically examine weapons, that they must have permission to transfer from one place to another and about the purchase of ammunition because our statistics and practices have shown that these weapons used by shooters are very rarely, or almost never used and are not the means of committing the most serious crimes. And that's exactly what the purpose and purpose of this law is to try all the weapons, of course it won't be possible, but as many weapons as possible put under control, record it because then social surveillance is much more serious and precisely on this example of shooters dealing with shooting as a sport is a good example for people who use it for certain purposes to treat it responsibly and to take it least abuse. Here I think that this is a good proposal that could be another step further precisely in allowing weapons to be used as little as possible, that as few users as possible on the means of carrying out the most serious crimes, and on the other hand to allow shooters to use weapons for those purposes that are absolutely acceptable to society as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78064	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, internal policy and national security, gender equality. The chairman of the board, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78065	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. At its 40th session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the Final Proposal of the Arms Act as an interested working body. The Committee held a written opinion by the Ombudsman on that act. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative introduced the Committee to the differences between the final draft laws and the first proposal in the first reading. The debate indicated that the restrictive nature of this law could endanger the right to citizens' privacy, especially given the authority of a police officer to collect data from neighbours, colleagues and all other persons he considers to have knowledge of the applicant. In this respect, some of those persons may be subject to a negative perception, and therefore negatively proposed assessments of the behaviour of the applicant for authorisation for the supply of weapons. In order to avoid misunderstandings, it is necessary to add, in Article 110(1) of this Act, paragraph 11 to the obligation of the Minister of Interior to prescribe the procedure and method of verifying the conditions that citizens must fulfil for the authorisation of the supply of arms. In such a way, it would be clearly prescribed that these are disturbed family relations, who, and by the basis of which it makes an assessment that family relations are of such a nature as to prevent the authorisation of carrying arms. It also pointed to a major problem of the spread of illegal weapons where, despite organised actions to hand over weapons, violence is witnessed daily, and domestic violence is generally done with just such weapons. The debate highlighted the problem of poor cooperation between the competent authorities when issuing their opinion on health skills. In order for doctors of general practice to be able to report on changes in the health status of persons who are weapons owners, it is necessary for the Ministry of Interior to coordinate work with the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and for specialists to cooperate with general practitioners. In the discussion, members and members of the board decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Arms Act, and also to most of the votes, with 7 votes for and one against, he decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the next amendment. In accordance with Article 110(1), point 11 is added to Article 110, which is to read, the procedure and the method of verifying compliance with the conditions set out in Article 10(2). It is necessary, in our opinion, to make clear the criteria and the way in which the conditions laid down in Article 10(2), point 5. Namely, a disturbed family relationship does not necessarily mean a behavioural disturbance that can be of any impact on the eligibility of the authorisation for weapons. It is also necessary to prescribe the conduct of police officers who make up the official note based on all the data collected on the person because the Police Administration Committee takes into account the official record of the police officer when deciding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78066	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78067	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. This is a topic that is extremely important. The weapon is an area of special importance and has a major impact on the state of both private and general security in the Republic of Croatia. Unquestionably, the additional influence on this issue has the state of the Homeland War and the time after the Homeland War where many people remain in possession of weapons of all kinds. The possession of weapons in every respect provides the possibility of unwanted and tragic events in which victims and children are rarely found. Especially when it comes to illegal weapons that are uncontrollably and inadequately guarded. The area of arms has been regulated by the 1992 law, but the law has been complemented and amended on several occasions. Almost all amendments and amendments to the laws have prescribed the registration of weapons without the designation of origin and the handover of prohibited weapons has been organised on several occasions. Despite the fact that 33,000 598 pieces of automatic firearms were collected in this way, a million and 670,000 355 pieces of firearms, more than 5 million rounds of ammunition and 7 thousand and 600 kilograms of explosives. Unfortunately, today, too, the problem of illegal possession of production, trade and arms smuggling is still ongoing. By observing the state and movement of crime, it is easy to judge that larger quantities of weapons are still found in the illegal possession of citizens. In line with the recommendation of the International Community aimed at organised crime and terrorism and rules that allow the control of the acquisition and registration and movement of weapons within the Member States of the European Union, this law, in line with European legislation, aims to achieve an even greater security of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There are several important and important differences compared to the current law. First of all, I would like to specify a re-prescription of the possibility of handing over a weapon without restrictions that citizens without punishment will be able to hand over their weapons if they report it before the crime and emergency investigations are carried out. I.e., before the application of the police powers laid down by the Police Act. An important paper is the introduction of an examination, marking and verification of the technical correctness of the weapon. In this way, a single database and samples of firearms will be created to significantly speed up the process of identification of firearms and detection of perpetrators of criminal offences. The final proposal for the Law provides for the classification of weapons by categories A to D where the permitted weapons to be declared to the competent authority are precisely defined, as well as weapons for which no approval of the competent authority is required. Of course, in category A and category B, point 7 is determined and classified as prohibited weapons. The law provides for the introduction of authorisation for the supply of ammunition, that is also the difference. The application of this provision would begin with the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. The law lays down conditions for the supply and possession of weapons. It is important to highlight the part relating to violations of the Law on protection against domestic violence and the consumption of intoxicating drugs and other intoxicating agents. The age limit for the supply and possession of weapons from 18 to 21 years of life is also being shifted, except for police, Croatian military employees, criminal and correctional institutions, as well as members of shooting and hunting associations. Changes have also been foreseen in relation to the belief of health skills that would be issued with a deadline of 5 years instead of the 10 so far. Re-enlarged amounts of fines and also prescribed the possibility to impose a sentence of up to 60 days for those who are not authorised to obtain, hold, carry, sell or give up any other weapon or ammunition whose carrying and possession is prohibited. This Law addresses other important issues since the operation of transport and use of weapons. All in all, we at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community believe that the adoption of this Act and its implementation will contribute to the security of all citizens and thus to general security in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will therefore support the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78068	Thank you. For the club HSP, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78069	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. The Croatian Party's right club proposes that the Final Proposal of the Law on Weapons be referred to a third reading in order to protect the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and to protect honest Croatian citizens, 202 thousand 750 who have registered, possess registered weapons. So a 'Goodbye' action that unfortunately didn't give the expected results wouldn't turn into a 'Goodbye and a registered weapon' action. Namely, there are two important reasons why we are looking for this, and this is based on an analysis of our expert team and on an expert team are permanent court experts for weapons and ballistics. First, what is important to say is that 95% of the crimes committed by weapons in Croatia, or committed, are committed with unregistered weapons. Doesn't mean registered illegal weapons. And in this part, this Law does not solve anything but imposes new obligations on those who are loyal Croatian citizens, who comply with Croatian regulations and fulfil all obligations, which is also contained in this section of various technical innovations that are introduced in connection with the marking of weapons, for other technical examinations, without talking about health checks. So that's the first part, and the second part refers to matter itself. In fact, according to our expert team's point of view, this is essentially about the literal translation of the European Union directive, and on the other hand, it is about the fact that the people involved do not know about weapons and ammunition at all, nor do they understand weapons and ammunition. And that's why we've come to this situation that's indicated here. I'll tell you that our expert team has 14 closely printed pages of objections to amendments, but I'll read to you the most important, so you'll see that this is basically one of the masculine law because unfortunately, the law itself still has a sense of masculine. So I'll tell you the most important situation. Regarding Article 3, he says "the essential parts of the weapon are the pipe, the bed of the bullet, etc., the handrail with the trigger mechanism". Wrong. You need to write a pipe with a bullet bed because the bullet's bed is not a special part but an extension inside the bullet pipe. So it's all visible that the one who worked at all is that he doesn't even know the matter of the weapon, and then he translates it literally and brings people who understand that part, so who are also the court witches, that it's obvious that it's concluded. Article 4 says "is not considered a weapon intended for alarm and signalling". However, this is completely incorrect because such a weapon can fire, it can be filled with an irritable mixture, and it has the same effect and effect as the gas weapon. So, if, and the gas weapon is to be reported and this is not to be reported, and so with this weapon, it's possible to achieve the same as with the gas weapon to be reported because with this charge and this weapon intended for alarm and signalling the same effects of the product. Now let's go to Article 5. So one thing you said was that it had to be registered, and the other you said it didn't have to be registered. Now we're going to Article 5. Article 1(1), point 5. Edit the language, throw out the buzzard. Is that like Mark Kraljević, and it's anacrono for the 21st century? Further, point 6. It is not said, "Helping the suppressed" but suppressed. Point 10. There are no air revolvers because it's as visible as who did it. You don't have an air revolver. Your gun has a drum, there's an air gun. But the air revolver's gone, and it's not possible to do that. So technically it's impossible to make an air revolver. But according to the law, it's possible. Now go on, points 11 and 12. It is not said "under pressure from gunpowder" but under the pressure of gunpowder gases. Energy doesn't pressure. Point 19. If the old weapon was military and police that lasted and unusable, would it also be worth the use of both unusable hunting and other weapons? If we want to define something, let's define it to the end. Now, please, this is for the Millionaires. What is the weapon of the Magnatical and the Majestic Ornats? Does anyone know about this Parliament? Here... So the weapons of the Magnatical ornate ornaments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who understands that? Furthermore, it is said in point 34 Disabling all essential parts [[Intruder: Listen carefully to understand]] Carefully, it says: Disabling all essential parts. [[Intruder: Do not throw, listen carefully!]] Namely, who knows the guns. Not all essential parts need to be disabled, but only enough is one part of the pipe, for example. If the pipe does not fit, no, but be careful the law says: "all the essential parts". Then that, then it's not an incapacitated weapon but that's what a mutilated piece of metal would say in that case. Or does it mean who, who knows guns? If you've disabled the pipe, you don't have to destroy as much as Shime what's "Goodbye to the weapon" on Preradovic's square with a hammer and there was no hammer, yes. Article 6(1), point (b) Guns and guns with bullets that have expansional effect and bullets for such ammunition. It can be seen that the legislator does not know the terminology of weapons and ammunition. Here, the word bullet should be replaced by the word grain. But be careful, that's a lot of professional theory, so I won't do much of it, so in this part of it you need to take care of the terminology and the knowledge of weapons and ammunition itself. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Category B weapons shall also be specified by repetitive, repetitive and semi-automatic. I need... with a folding mechanism because more than 50% of the hunting rifles have a overlapping shotgun mechanism, for example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this wasn't in the law, then about 50,000 guns would have to be destroyed. Article 6(2), point (a) Semi-automatic firearms for civilian use similar to automatic firearms. This provision is pure nonsense because it does not exist in practice. Maybe there was a mistake because instead of automatically writing to the military. For example, in Croatia it is a legalized military sniper rifle, the flag M-76 as a hunting rifle and it really is a military semi-automatic weapon because there is no weapon like this. Article 6(4), point (2): "Weapon of category D and said gas weapons". An identical weapon device can fire signal and alarm ammunition as well as gas ammunition. It's only a single-caliber ammunition, one loaded with a peach or a signal mixture, and the other with an irritable mixture. So you're chasing the basic concepts. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The weapons of category D are electric paralysers. Electric paralysors are not placed anywhere in the world in arms, and in particular this would be inappropriate because the bill for paralysers provides for weapons booklets. For example, electrical welding devices are more dangerous than paralysers. So why didn't the promoter put these machines in a gun with a book? Weapon books as familiar as this is with natural persons are nowhere in the world. There have always been books in the military, books for legal persons, but this is nowhere in the world yet, not recorded. See Article 10(1), point 7. It is she who cares about the citizens about having to go through the checks all the time. Article 10(2), point (b) It is said among other things that are actively competing. In order for a person to compete actively before that, they must be actively trained. Who will measure what methods, and who will control the level of activity? Targeted persons for shooting can be less active, but they can still compete. So it's about expressions that even the promoter doesn't know what he's trying to say, and how is that actually going to happen? So specifically about health proposals means it's reduced to every five years, it can't be administratively determined when a disease occurs? So it's administratively impossible to determine. The disease doesn't occur every five years. The disease comes past and independently of the prescribed deadlines set by the legislator. Of course a healthy person can get sick. However, this is the problem of doctors, social services, and police covering the area where the patient lives. The vast majority of gun owners are healthy, and with this proposal, the state would harass them and take the money. Of course doctors would rub their hands, too, because you get money. It is not clear why Croatian citizens want to be pressured and forced to submit a positive opinion of their health skills after 5 years, they are going through the whole procedure again for approval to extend the validity of the armed list. There's a problem with time, money. So it's all clear. Article 14, paragraph 1, is replaced by the following: Veli: The existence of conditions is determined by a police officer. This is not in democratic countries. There is no need to always question the honesty of a police officer, however, this is a serious matter and more subjects should be consulted for the existence of conditions. On the other hand, it is known how many yearly police officers are kicked out of the service for dishonesty. For example, will personal impatience, a dispute with a neighbor around a parking space, or will there be a similar obstacle to the existence of conditions? Because you're giving discretionary rights to a police officer. If this provision remains in the proposal in practice, major abuses may occur. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day It is said: Museums may have the weapons referred to in Article 6, category a), points 4, 5 and 7. The weapons referred to in points 4, 5 and 7 of that article are not weapons but are mine-explosive and ammunition. So again it's visible that it doesn't distinguish what weapons are, which is ammunition, and what they're mine-explosive means. I mean, that means it leads to total paradox. Furthermore, Article 26(5) of the permanent disarmament of weapons is required as a accompanying regulation of the Arms Act to adopt on the rules on permanent training, weapons disenfranchisement in order not to have those pictures of Shima Lučina on... how the hammer destroys the weapon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now look at Article 29, paragraph 1, he says, "Keep the weapon locked in the covers." For example, a hunter goes hunting or to a shooting range, puts a rifle in a car, a rifle is in a suitable holster made of skin, skin, or canvas, or as the bill's pronoun says. It's common knowledge that holsters, coatings don't even have technical covers, can have locks, so the question is, how are they gonna lock up the cover? He can lock it up, but he can't lock it when there's no lock. Thus, my time was slowly running out, and I appeared individually, and I did not reach page 6. It is evident that there have been conditions for us to be responsible for both ourselves and Croatian citizens to refer this law to the third reading because obviously this will produce the whole gift of mar in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78070	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78071	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect assumption that the "good-bye" action has not yielded the expected results. She gave above the expected results. Unfortunately, because of the court practice, that the proposal should be respected when someone commits a crime or finds himself with a gun, say, illegal, then the court would actually respect that he intended to return the gun as part of the "good-bye" action. Perhaps Mr Kovacevic thought the action was bad that only those weapons we were breaking up for the purpose of confiscating it. No, I don't. The grave of weapons was burned, which was seized in the high furnaces and Sisak, and mine-explosive assets were destroyed in the Slunj polygon. So you have now and in Bosnia a similar action actually transferred to that model that we had with them having some kind of reward game now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78072	Next correction, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78073	Thank you, Mr. President. So, respected counterpart Kovacevic and his expert team incorrectly claim that this bill says nothing about an illegal weapon with which crimes are already committed makes it more difficult, garnering life for those who orderly register weapons. In Article 26 of the Security Policy, it is my colleague Kovacevic, and in connection with the problem of weapons, the most significant problem is illegal weapons, and therefore the criminal provisions of the Arms Act as one of the most serious violations are prescribed precisely for the purchase of weapons without authorisation, which forms the basis for sanctioning and that part of the conduct contained in the illegal supply of weapons relating to the sale or handover of weapons to those who are not allowed to possess them, etc. And a few more articles regulate this truly illegal weapon that does not commit the most crimes, and in fact threatens the security of the country itself. So it's incorrect that you claim that it's not in this bill anywhere regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78074	And the esteemed representative Ivo Vukic, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78075	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my fellow Kovacevic, a spokesman for the expert team in the section that weapons cannot be locked in the holster. Well, I don't know much about guns, but I understand holsters, so I know it's all possible to lock up and so does a gun holster like one travel bag and everything. There are weapons holsters that they have on them, a locking system, if they don't have small locks or locks that can lock it up, and if it's locked in the car afterwards, you can take both the car and the holster and the weapon all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78076	It's if the gun is locked in the holster, the holster in the closet, and the travel bag in the car is also locked and everything can be carried along with the car, please. The garage's still on. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You'd rather. We'll give it to the secretary of state sooner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78077	Thank you very much. There were a lot of objections to spelling, grammatical, technical ones I'm not going to comment on. But there was one remark that was very important and important and I just want to deny it. You said someone was gonna rub their hands because of these five-year deadlines that they had to go to a doctor's appointment. You should have read the article 12, which says: "The chosen primary health care doctor as well as any other doctor who has knowledge of changes in medical condition or during the course of treatment of the gun owner is required to report immediately." Normally, there is no disease every 5 years, but it may occur that the owner of the weapon does not go to the doctor, that the doctor cannot fulfil this obligation that is even sanctioned in Article 95(1), the doctor may only inform the owner of the weapon if he has been examined and if the physician has such knowledge. It may occur that the owner of the weapon was not with the doctor, that there was no knowledge, and that these medical examinations are periodically preventive to prevent weapons from being owned by people who are not medically capable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78078	Two corrections, Honorable representative of Shima Luchin first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78079	Well, I think it's incorrect that a doctor can and must report if he has any knowledge of a health disorder. Why? First, because medical certificates for getting weapons are obtained only in some medical institutions because that provision implies that every doctor knows who owns the weapon. That's crazy, I mean. It's impossible to actually realize. That means when I come to my doctor and a little... He tells you he's the one, but he may be a specialist in general practice, in medicine work, I don't know what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I think that provision should be removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78080	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78081	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, that's exactly what Mr. Lucin said, and that's my correction to an incorrect quote. In fact, there's no need for that 10-year-old to be reduced to five years. I've brought up the reasons why it's going to turn out, that they're really going to treat rubbing hands because they're going to make money, you're not going to achieve what you're trying to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78082	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain, club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78083	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I would say that after this massacre that took place a few weeks ago in the House of Commons, the law came at the right time. The same question arises as to whether Croatia is a safe country. An assassination on your hair? Unsolved. Tried to drop a bomb on Pasalic? Unsolved. Murdering a lawyer in Losinj? Case closed. Shots fired a few days ago outside the Zagreb supermarket? Case closed, etc. The only thing that's been promptly solved is that FINA dilettante who robbed without gloves even though the murder of two innocent people placed him in the line of the most monstrous murderers and what was also immediately solved is this jewelry heist in the chief of the river police's apartment. Everywhere else, the police unfortunately tap us in place. Secretary of State, you are in the chain of command among the most responsible for the security situation in Croatia. The responsibility cannot clearly escape this House, either the President of the Parliament or the Prime Minister or the President of the State, but it is certainly the police who are the most responsible, regardless of youth, pay, risks etc. Clearly, similar things have happened before but such a devil as he is now seems to have never been before. We want to offer Croatia to the world as a safe country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78084	A colleague!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78085	We're setting up...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78086	Just one moment. A colleague! Comrade Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78087	Yeah? Say it, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78088	This is not a debate on the security situation in Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78089	No, just a little introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78090	This is according to the law... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78091	I'll look back on those articles I'm holding...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78092	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78093	I'll comment on it. I will not go into details as Mr Kovacevic although his arguments were convincing and it is evident that behind it is the main, not the main apartment but the expert team but his way was certainly a reference specimen of how the law should be analysed. I respect that, but what I'm trying to say is that the odds are serious. But let me keep thinking. Croatia must offer the world as a safe country, we establish relations with our neighbours, the police cooperate with us, but we also regrettably have more and more flowers. There are more and more drugs and bombs and weapons and ordered liquidations they are doing for Croatian contractors as happened there in 2002 that murder in Rovinj where the Slovenian family was killed and the killer was a Serb. So on the Croatian ground, the killer from Serbia kills a Slovenian family who was involved in arms trafficking on the ground of ex Yugoslavia. But let me go back to that law now. Here, articles like in a fairy tale, 115. A few would be enough for the government to be effective. This additional uncertainty, unfortunately, will help this hyper-production of norms. As far as hunters are concerned. Let's start with them. And they're represented in this law. Hunting tourism is certainly one significant sub-border tourism. It must be as much easier for them to bring weapons but also to bring out the little game that catches and I say it's these phytopathological services if that's what they're called for in Istria, then they're in a hole, so for example. The hunter who comes to hunt in Buzet or Laniste must take out one rabbit or pheasant to make 100 kilometers round. It's one of those moments. In Article 62, paragraph 1 of the arms may be entered into the Republic of Croatia, I am now thinking again of these hunting rifles with a European Union pass and in accordance with ratified international contracts. I'm talking about the money. Hunting is definitely a way of doing business. On the other hand, the provisions on the production of weapons almost disappeared in the Republic of Croatia are more interesting in this law. To happen to the country that was in the war, which was supposed to run the production of weapons, it's probably an unprecedented case. The production probably went out so that individuals for their own account, for their own interest, could smuggle those weapons. But it's more interesting that more weapons were imported after '96. It's been since '91. Until '96. And despite the embargo on Croatia, Croatia is in '91. Gentlemen, the weapon got even below the price and the real embargo you know when it started? After there was a conflict or conflict between the HVO Army and the BiH Army. Yeah, yeah. Right then. Otherwise, the production of weapons is dedicated in this law to only six articles. I don't think it's necessary anymore. However, Croatia must produce part of the weapon itself. The question is, can the Croatian army be guaranteed to buy all weapons? Of course he can't. This is primarily a matter of exports and what is most important is that one country becomes a reference or reference exporter, such as Finland must also have a strong international position. I clearly advocate as few weapons as possible, for the sake of pragmatism, I'm going to close my eyes, say, when the Oilman exports missiles to third countries, but what we're going to live in this imperfect world. Croatia certainly does not need a strong army, and it is clear that the Croatian 16 thousand soldiers from there in 2008 cannot be guarantees of the purchase of weapons and even more serious companies. But Croatia must have some kind of production that will guarantee self-sufficiency for its own army. The essence of this law is I dare say that these criminal provisions starting with Article 94 and then almost there are until Article 115. Then it is said that the selected physician in Article 95 of Health Care as well as any other doctor who immediately informs the competent authority of changes in the health condition or course of treatment of the gun owner and which affects the health care ability to hold or carry a weapon may be punished from 2 to 10 thousand kuna. That's where Shime Luchin said earlier, that it wouldn't be so simple. That punishment can punish a natural person if he carries a weapon when he is under the influence of alcohol, drugs. Then, if a person does not access a medical examination every 5 years, if he does not submit a request for the registration of a weapon within the prescribed time limit, he or she obtains ammunition without the approval of the competent authority, if he or she sells or hands over arms and ammunition to those who do not have a valid authorisation for the supply of a weapon or a valid armed paper, if the weapon is not kept by firearms in accordance with the provision provided for in Article 29, provided that the weapon he/she holds on the basis of the armed weapons list is in breach of the provisions of Article 29. etc. Finally, the question is really being asked, and this should be the essence of this law, how to remove weapons from the street, from our houses, and what remaining weapons from the Homeland War? That weapon, that's why I started, that crime in Okucane, that's why people suffer with that weapon, that's why the most suicide was committed. If you go into action to confiscate this weapon, which is the purpose of this law primarily without permission, that's something to be welcomed and to insist on. We all stand for the world without such a word of guns, a family without weapons. A weapon can't be a substitute for a pet. I don't have any weapons personally, I'm not a hunter, but I'll also be against any hunters being limited by that law that will follow this. I'll be against the fact that an individual can't access a weapon because it's a constitutional position, but that clear weapon has to be recorded, it has to be written, it has to be correct, it can't be given to people with psycho-physical interference. These people must understandably be in a way that owns weapons "supervised" and that holding must rather be an exception than a rule. I'll never forget one statement from the late American President Reagan after the assassination. He was asked by reporters if they would ban the holding of weapons. He said he couldn't go against the Constitution. So, the Constitution guarantees us that people can get their hands on weapons but now, first of all, it's on the institutions of repression, preventing these weapons from being abused. Normally, when I talk about weapons, then I don't mean this military weaponry, rocket launchers, kalashnikovs, anti-tank mines that each to be a cynical better family in the Republic of Croatia owns at least in the amount that it can arm one smaller platoon. In Croatia, it is primarily all the weapons held unauthorized, and I claim that it can equip a dozen, twenty battle brigades to withdraw as soon as possible, to be stored, to be destroyed as soon as possible, to deprive individuals of the same, and thus guarantee that after we can do so, we will be able to live more safely. Now, is this law going to go into third reading thinking or will it be adopted during today perhaps even the relevant question, it is important that this action "Goodbye, weapons!" or no matter what we call it, despite Mr Kovacevic's arguments, it goes on. Otherwise, the law itself as a law if it's intended to deprive us of the other weapons, then it's up to you to say hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78094	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78095	Mr. President! Comrade Cain, it is not true that the arms import embargo was introduced. The beginning of a conflict between the Croatian Council of Oran and the BiH Army in 1993. You must know that the BiH Army is armed through Croatia, that's one thing. Secondly, the arms import embargo was introduced by the Security Council Resolution 1991 and you as a representative and as a Croatian citizen should at least know what that meant and what time of 1991 and the Security Council Resolution and what that embargo meant at the time. Since it meant nothing to you then, it means nothing to you or the dates which are history in the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78096	SDP representative club, respected representative of Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78097	The Croatian defenders defended the likes of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78098	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I don't know, Mr. Cain's statement may have been made in the ministry because he called you in the chain of command and perhaps a third that the secretary of state can't be in the chain of command, not just because he's not in the police, but also the police shouldn't operate by the chain of command and by order, but by law. But let's get to the point of things. What are we discussing here today? We're here today discussing some means. What kind of means are these? It's the means that they take away or they can take the life that they can kill. So it's not about the beets, it's not about the fridge, it's about the guns. And I think this topic is very important in view of the current situation and not so distant history of Croatia. Someone here mentioned an embargo and weapons supply. A good part of the problem of illegal weapons in Croatia actually stems from the way we obtain these weapons because the troops then owed arms to either traders or those who should have kept no records, signed those weapons, serial numbers, etc. to make it easier and easier to mix because then you'd know how many guns they bought, which guy and everything that's already going on with that record. And unfortunately, today in Croatia we have such a large number of illegal or illegal weapons. And right away, I might as well start by saying the SDP's attitude. The SDP club will not vote for this law for a number of reasons, but it will not first of all vote for this law for a simple reason because of what is not in this law. A colleague, Rebic, well noted that he has only a few articles on illegal weapons and illegal weapons. The problem of weapons today in Croatia is not legal weapons. The problem is illegal weapons. A colleague, Kovacevic, said that 95% of all crimes are illegal or illegal. No, it happens almost 100%, not all crimes, but the most serious, murder, attempted robbery and attempted murder. So I think it's enough actually that that information is enough to alarm the situation. We still thought this law would pay more attention to this problem of illegal weapons. I'm not normally a person who prefers and advocates repression and restrictive measures, but when it comes to illegal weapons, I don't think they should be merciful. And I start in the back, starting with criminal provisions. I think criminal provisions relating specifically to illegal weapons should be transferred from Crime to Criminal Law. And I wouldn't let anyone own an illegal weapon at all and get away with two or five thousand kuna fines. I would have prescribed for him a mandatory prison, as strange as it may seem to some legal professionals, but I'm convinced that it's the only way with a certain promotion to reduce the problem of illegal weapons. Because you're crazy if you find a kid with one cannabis stem, he goes to jail for three years. No one threatens him, but he or anyone else can get high and possibly end up in a hospital. When the sober send him home or when he comes home. But watch out for the one who owns the weapon, so the potential is illegal, who actually owns the illegal weapon? Potential criminal, potential killer. The one who potentially endangers our nation, our children and the citizens of this country. Because everyone who has no intention, intends to use it for illegal, illegal things, they can finely legalize it as we say law and regulations, and regulations, therefore, prescribe it. So that's one important fact for me, one that needs to be taken care of. I'm also not sure that it's a good, good provision that a weapon can be handed over to the police without any sanctions and without any means whatsoever. And that's how the police call and come home. That's not a bad idea and it's not a bad idea as part of a wider campaign and action. But I think it should be limited to 5 months, 6 months or a year for a simple reason, because the campaign we had earlier, like "Goodbye to weapons," has shown that there is actually a space of abuse. So there was one, I'll tell you in particular. There was one working. In a search of the suspect's apartment, an illegal weapon was found. His lawyer in court defended the possession of illegal weapons in a way that he meant to take it back to the police tomorrow. And to be clear, the court has accepted such an assessment. So you can simply have illegal weapons. Today to commit a crime in the morning and in the evening to invite the police to come to you tomorrow, to come tomorrow, to pick it up. As far as these kind of things are concerned, let's say new dimensions in terms of money that will come together on different grounds regarding control, technical weapons checks, and so on, I think that if you're already going with it and in such a way you need to be very careful. It's good to estimate whether it's such prices or not that on one side it wouldn't actually happen again if one part of the people were pushed into an illegal sphere, but the point is what I was going to say. If it is to be gathered on all grounds next year, I recommend to the Government or the Ministry of Interior that these 13 million kunas be used for the purchase of illegal weapons. For these 13 million kunas, you could buy, let's say, between 8 and 10 thousand pieces of weaponry. Almost at market prices. So that would make sense, actually. So there's a way for those who legally own weapons to get some money, but then let's just focus that money on actually reducing that sphere of illegal, illegal weapons. There's been a lot of talk in this law about techniques and parts. However, the intensity or spirit of this law, at least as I see it, is not in line with a number of European laws, let's say, Austrian. I see that's where it's mentioned, that's where the Slovenians are mentioned. Spirit, let me say European laws when treating the problem of weapons it treats him in terms of exceptions. And the spirit of our law actually treats it in terms of rules. There's no way that you in Austria get a gun license on behalf of a neighborhood that's insecure. Because it's the responsibility of the police then. That means we're in a bad state of security. Not to go into detail. There's talk of asking for a self-defense gun. What law defines self-defense? Because that's how you prejudge and intensively interpret the necessary self-defense, isn't it? So the sequence is, in fact, a series of these issues that have remained open and actually that space, if we even rule out athletes and hunters and so forth, even that space outside of that seems to me personally to be too simple and too liberal. And not to mention what I said earlier that in Croatia a large number of health institutions are authorized to give papers and confirm that someone is capable of having weapons. That's inadmissible. Because still, you know what, I still think it's easier to kill with a gun than with a car. So it might be, and we'd better say, the one who takes the driver's license when he goes to the doctor's appointment, that the medical examination is at least something more intense and more complex in a weapon than in a car or a driver's license. And if your doctor has to say something, you can't ask your doctor to tell you something. Or expect from the court, pardon the neighbors to give you a statement, right? Imagine I've got a neighbor I'm not really on good terms with. And I'm looking for a weapon, and the police go to him, ask him, ask him what you think of that neighbor of yours? A bully, a disruptive public order and peace. I think that system should be dealt with differently. In fact, maybe you should go with some kind of statement from the one who's looking for the weapon. Which would be easily verifiable even when he's taken away from him in those 10 points he signed for the first time for life. No way. Watch out for one more thing. We have a situation that a large number of citizens who own us, owns weapons, has been prosecuted. What's up with that? Do you? I couldn't see it. What about when? I know when some criminal proceedings are initiated, then there's a right and some are taken away, some are not taken away and so forth. And you have a situation to ask my neighbor, I don't know, my mother-in-law that I'm not good with, is what I am? And at the same time you have in court, in my file you have there that I, I don't know, did that and that? And why harass, I don't know, and thus come into some knowledge and information when you actually have what's called "fail", a "fail" that you don't really need, requires extra effort. That's interesting actually. So we're the country where you pay what's normal... taxes on both cars, taxes and the ship, and you actually have a situation, right now if we go one way I would dare, tax weapons not to be the original income that will be directed back at solving, let's call it weapons problems, but simply be an integral part of the budget, an integral part of the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, that's this, I wouldn't be going into those calculations that happened in public, actually, that whole story about the technical examinations, about what we're going to call it already, is it, actually, that it's just a matter of certain lobbies that have been fighting to do, to make a good business. I don't believe it, but that opportunity, or that story, was in public. Here, therefore, my appeal, regardless of the SDP won't vote for such a law, I know that it will be adopted, but my appeal that with a well-designed campaign, with this story well balanced about the possibility of handing over weapons can be achieved, illegal weapons can be achieved. The "Goodbye to Arms" action took place the moment it was joined by the Association of Volunteers of the Homeland War and we began to collect weapons in their premises. Then in about three months or not, we've collected more weapons in two months than in the previous four or five. So there are ways. Now that this law is passed, you will get one significant monetary injection which should be aimed at solving the problem of illegal weapons, because with further reinforcements, if they were, provisions, criminal provisions, not malpractice, I think that, in one foreseeable period, this whole problem could be reduced to a minimum. I know it would be crazy to expect her to get rid of it completely. But that's what we need to work on, and that's what we need to keep going. There's one more thing. I don't think this law should exclude the military, the police, or the soldiers and the police. Soldiers and police officers must be treated in the same way as all citizens. You recently had in one parking lot that a police officer outside the service shot at a man. According to that, what is not mentioned here is the responsibility of, say, the MORH for the technical state of the mine-explosive device and weapons. Because actually when you see only where we meet with technically incorrect weapons and mine-explosive means, where people die, it's part of your Croatian army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78099	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, honourable representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although in a nice part of my colleague Lucin's exposure, I agree, I still have to correct his inaccuracies, which is a very dangerous colleague, Lucin. And that's, you said, I'll quote, "Who's holding an illegal weapon?"you asked a question and you gave the answer yourself, " he's being held by potential criminals, potential killers.". A very dangerous statement because I'm asking you whether those holding legal weapons are not potential criminals are not potential killers. At the end of the day, you actually ended up just confirming yourself contradictoryly because you mentioned a police officer who legally had a gun and who shot a man in the parking lot. So I wouldn't share it that way. I just want to tell you one thing, that this law, that is, would be nice if we could so easily determine who the potential criminal and potential killer is just by holding illegal weapons. And I assure you that this law is actually encouraged that those who are legally holding weapons today will hold it illegally tomorrow. It's not going to turn them into potential criminals, it's only people who don't have enough money to pay for what this country imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78101	Okay. Thank you. Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić, second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78102	Your Honor, Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, there are two, two incorrect allegations I will look back on. This is the handover of illegal weapons where Mr. Representative Shima Luchin said it was not good to call the police and the police themselves to remove the weapon from the apartment. Well, he just set an example of what wasn't right. That the man who's in the hood of the car is an illegal weapon he says I was just going to the police to hand him over. Or what the lawyer said, when he was found in the apartment, an illegal weapon, here I was about to hand him over, so I put him in to the police tomorrow. In order to avoid such a situation, weapons and police must be reported, and an authorised police officer comes to the apartment and he carries weapons. So that these situations don't happen. It is the same with two colleagues who say that a doctor is required to report to a doctor whether someone has become incapable of seeing medical records to hold a weapon. Of course the doctor of general practice doesn't know who has the weapon. But that's why he's got a manual that says every five years that it's a specialist examination for carrying weapons. And then they have to, he's bound to say if something's wrong with that patient or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78103	Third correction, honourable representative Mirko Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78104	Well, I would only correct the inaccuracies of fellow Lucinians. A colleague, Rosic, has already said in part that illegal weapons are owned by all potential killers and criminals, which I do not think stands. Because at the end of the day, I know a lot of people, some of my acquaintances, and even my friends know that they have canned weapons that they keep in the attic, buried and never returned, especially they will not be stimulated by any threats or high fines, nor can that weapon ever be found. And anyway, the crimes, here we have now in the Houses, and the perpetrators of those parts that, in such a way, with illegal weapons, they get caught within an hour or two. So it doesn't stand to reason that all those who own illegal weapons are potential criminals and murderers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78105	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78106	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague named Lucin. First, he corrected that the information I presented on behalf of the Croatian Party club is the right not to be correct. It's true. I was saying that 95% of the crimes committed with the use of weapons in any way were committed with illegal weapons. And he said 100% and then he set an example of the officer who committed with the official. Thus, it is already evident that he presented incorrect information. The other part is not good, Mr. Lucin. I have to fix it. Namely, there are 5 court rulings where the fact that a criminal offence with illegal weapons was committed was not a burdensome circumstance that, under the laws, the normal situation, according to the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act, was, in these cases, expedient because it was in force, so-called. This upheaval which extended the time of the arms return and automatically everyone could have said here I was just going to go tomorrow or the day after tomorrow to hand over that weapon. So it was a big mistake of that action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78107	Thank you. And distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78108	Here's a colleague of Luchin's explaining one case where a lawyer later reported that his defendant was going to report a weapon. In fact, this law avoids such a possibility, for everyone will be able to report and hand over weapons without punishment if they do so before the prosecutions are carried out and before the police do so. So this quote doesn't stand by any chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78109	Thank you. We've just run out of time to report a ten-minute hearing. State Secretary, Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78110	Thank you very much. Most of what I was about to say had already been corrected through the applications of the other MPs but only for a moment to clarify one thing. The M.O.P. is interested in firstly putting under the control of illegal, undeclared weapons. We are fully aware, what Mr. Kovacevic and Mr. Lucin said, that most of the crimes and the most serious crimes seem precisely to be weapons that are not legalized, which have not been reported. That is why we have also adopted the observations of the Shooting Union about their demands to facilitate their holding, carrying and availability of weapons because the shooters are indeed responsible persons who use these weapons for sports purposes. Also a large part or almost all hunters are responsible persons who use these weapons to hunt. We have no objection to the freedom of those responsible to hold arms and to treat them with responsibility and to hold and use them for the purposes that they are intended to do above all. Normally not all living situations can be normalized, so there will always be some situations that will not be covered by the law. But just to be clear about what Mr. Lucin said, exactly these situations that we witnessed during Mr. Lucin's term, when he was really a man who had an illegal weapon, the police wanted to take him away, he said I was just starting to give him back to you. This will prevent Article 100, 1st paragraph, which says: "a citizen who illegally owns weapons of category A, B, C is required to report such weapons to the nearest police authority or police station for surrender or incapacitation". Where citizens act contrary to paragraph 1 of this Article and before taking reconnaissance actions. Before taking reconnaissance actions, therefore, we want to disable precisely these abuses when police start reconnaissance operations, when some other police actions begin, there will no longer be an opportunity for anyone to say I've just started to return that weapon. Also, as far as health skills are concerned, we also have extraordinary medical examinations. It is not our goal and desire, as Mr Kovacevic said, that we are doing a job for doctors, but we feel it is really necessary that every 5 years we check the health status of people who own weapons. We will also try to make doctors responsible to check if you notice any serious human health disorders, to check whether they have a weapon and to report to the competent institution, or police administration. And there's also this institute of extraordinary medical examinations. It is not our goal to limit and prevent the holding and carrying of weapons, especially hunters and athletes of shooters, but we want to reduce the least possible extent of weapons abuse which seem unfortunately serious crimes and especially in that segment of unregistered illegal weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78111	Thank you. Now I suggest we stop the debate because there are two other clubs. The first should be a respected representative, Jozo Radoš, on behalf of the HNS Club, but we won't because we're going deep into the zone, and we're not going to end the debate, so we're going to end it. So, the debate continues on this Law Wednesday at 9:30. First in line is the HNS Club, respected representative Jozo Radoš. The second HSS Club, Honored Representative Zeljko Ledinski, is 12 other MPs for this agenda item. So we'll continue the session at 3:00 with a vote on the debated agenda points.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78112	We continue with the work of the 23rd session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, especially the present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In order to make it easier for you to find the bench, you have been provided with a consolidated agenda. We start with the 1st item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Arms Act - second reading, P.Z. No. 522 That is, therefore, a follow-up debate, isn't it? The word has on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the esteemed representative of Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78113	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs! During the debate on the proposal for a law on weapons in June this year, the HNS Club welcomed the efforts to regulate this area in accordance with European Union legislation, i.e. to better address issues that are important for the personal security of all our citizens. He also then made constructive and concrete proposals that we hoped would be adopted but unfortunately, by reading this final bill, we see that our proposals have not been adopted. It seems only because they come from opposition lines which I think is not good, because all these proposals are addressed to increase the security of the country's citizens. Unfortunately, we don't like the situation in this segment. In the meantime, she was even more escalating, so we're still witnessing the cruel and bloody murders that are happening around us. We read the daily newspaper, in most cases with illegal weapons purchased on the black market. Statistics tell us that in the last 20 years, 99% of cases in the use of weapons in criminal acts, weapons that have been illegally purchased and unregistered or weapons of the forbidden species are being used. And despite those black... The facts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the RES continue to reject our proposals on further tightening of penalties for illegal holding, carrying and supplying weapons, that is, how we have proposed to abolish fines for those arrested as illegally owned and carrying arms and for them an exclusively prison sentence is imposed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because fighting a criminal mile that works that way doesn't make much sense if people like that are left behind, if they're left with the possibility of fines. They will pay this fine very easily and will commit such crimes again, as we read every day in the newspaper. And our government sleeps and our secretary of state sleeps and doesn't listen to what I say and rejects our suggestions. By tightening sanctions, we can prevent the spread of these unwanted phenomena and thus send a message to the offenders...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78114	Honorable representative! No one sleeps, especially the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78115	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78116	Don't talk to the secretary of state like that, the government's representative, to sleep here in the benches. He reads carefully and listens to what you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78117	That was one metaphor! For all of these reasons, and during the first debate as we now believe that the legislator has not done enough to correct the quality of the legal text. In fact, we get the impression that more restrictions are being imposed on those who legally possess weapons and forgets or simply ignores that the biggest problem is actually illegal weapons possession or black market. I repeat, 99% of the cases where we use weapons in criminal acts are illegally purchased weapons. Even more in this legislative proposal, people who have licenses to own and carry weapons are subject to greater pressures, greater restrictions than those who have them illegally. It is also our duty to support the proposals sent by sports shooting clubs where they rightly warn themselves that the new text of the Arms Act in certain parts deprives the rights of these same clubs and even discriminates against sports shooting associations which are neatly and properly registered and which also achieve exceptional sports results for our country. So we support their proposal to increase their number of ammunition by one weapon from 100 to 500 pieces, as this enables uninterrupted competition and training. With 100 bullets per weapon, I don't know if anyone can get any results. We also support their proposal to add, in Article 75 of the bill, sentences to the members of the shooting associations for the transport of weapons in internal transport in order to participate in competitions to enable them not to need approval for each transport of weapons and ammunition, as they go to sports competitions almost every week. And the envisaged provisions would make their position much more difficult and would create great new costs. Every week at the MUP, every week paying the tags, every week pulling out some permits. We support this proposal by sports associations under Article 88 of the Law to release weapons owned by shooting associations on the obligation of preventive technical examination once a year as, according to the rules of the shooting organisation, a mandatory technical examination of the weapons used in the competition is carried out before each competition, by a qualified and authorised person. Weapons which are not correct and which do not comply with technical rules shall be disqualified and shall not be allowed to compete with them. Therefore, an additional yearly preventive review of the firearms would be a great cost for sports shooting organisations and we know what the situation in sports is about finance. Any such weapon shall be excluded from further use. Therefore, technical failure in sports clubs is out of the question. I think their proposals are reasonable and we call on the motion to accept them. Since this case is about sportsmen and athletes while our fight with criminals and illegal weapons must take place in a different way. From the above mentioned facts, the HNS Club is not satisfied with the proposed Arms Act and therefore proposes amendments to the text of the law. We call on the proposer to bring the text of the law into line with the new text, with all the observations, proposals and amendments made, and if adopted, they could support such a law. And if we don't suggest the law goes into third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78118	Thank you. The word on behalf of the HSS Club has a distinguished representative, Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78119	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Here are a few words on behalf of the HSS Club on the final proposal of the Arms Act. First of all, in the introduction, I would like to say that the HSS Club cannot support this final proposal of the Arms Act, but we propose that this be the second reading of this law and that certain repairs that have already been made in the discussions on them are made in the third reading. For what? Well, first of all, because of the fact that such a bill of arms makes additional burdens on our citizens who are legally owned by weapons and from all the statistics that are visible today, it's obvious that these legal owners, whether they're shooting weapons, are people who don't usually commit offenses but hold that weapon for their sport, for their hobby. The problem is with those owners who have illegal weapons and this law doesn't practically touch them the right way. That is why we think that I personally put it into the position that I no longer wish to support in our Parliament any law that would bring new burdens as was the case when I voted for the Water Act a year ago, which then indirectly influenced the fact that I had to pay far greater fees than they were before. And in this case, since I'm a hunter myself and I'm involved in sports shooting, it's simply not in line with the bill because that law will limit us to a lot of things. The intention of the legislator to gain greater control over illegal weapons held by citizens, then registration of weapons without any established origin, i.e. legalisation or takeover of weapons which cannot be legalised and which poses a danger to the owner himself and his nearby environment. And practically the promoter continues that action that was before "Goodbye, weapons!". I don't know why she was interrupted, but I think it's a good thing that there are mechanisms in a bill like this that will allow for another additional control to be carried out and that all weapons to be controlled in our country. In the very text of the proposal, which is conditioned by the European Directive on the acquisition and holding of weapons, there are many items that mainly refer to the legal weapons owners I have already said in the introduction and the police and the judiciary there seem to be fewer problems than the illegal ones, and we are often witnesses in newspapers, police reports that it is apparent that the most problems and criminal activities have with these illegal weapons. It is also visible today, although the law suggests an additional source of giving especially to our hunters and archers, let's say only our hunters are united mainly in the hunting alliance. Let's just say, here on our benches today, we don't have any suggestions, or anyone has welcomed us from hunting associations in front of the Parliament, and that there are other associations about some other laws that we know ourselves that the maltenes are pulling us by the sleeve, giving us their amendments, and that's why it's obvious that these are people who are disciplined in this sport and that they're mostly taking care because they're aware that they can only make one mistake and that they can remain without their weapons, and it's mostly a very rare case, but I say more cases of others. That's why I don't think it's a good thing that we're focusing mainly on putting these pressures on these legal owners and on the other ones we're not enough. And it seems to me that even then the arguments that are given here don't give enough right solutions because it turns out that this law needs to increase the administration and give more money and I doubt that it will increase the security of citizens after that or that it will reduce criminality. In particular, those who have these weapons as memories from various previous lifetimes will be damaged especially by older people who used to deal with either sports or other forms, various collectors, those especially older populations will be severely damaged. What I particularly want to point out, and it has already been said in previous discussions. First of all, medical beliefs that decrease from ten to five years, practically every five years now, mean twice as many medical examinations. Compared to some of the other traffic laws and others where you get a driver's license by 65, no one controls, this medical examination should be carried out every five years. Also, for example, a certificate of the availability of technical knowledge for the correct use of weapons. Here, I'll set my own example. I am an officer of the Croatian Army who trained the army and my colleagues sitting here I see who are also officers, who are hunters. And now I also have a graduate forest college where I listened to the subject of hunting, and also in high school, I listened to the object of hunting. And now I'm going to be trained by some young fellow who has the paper, and I who was in the war, who trained the army in peacetime, and before that, I've been hunted and I'm dealing with it as such, I have to go to those courses which I don't think is right. It's a new bureaucracy, just looking, getting paid to someone or I don't know I'm just gonna be forced to pay someone who knows me so they'll say ok. You know that, here's a paper for that. I think it's an additional part of the imposition we don't need. It is also threatened with various fines that are very large. If, for example, you do not bring a specific certificate within a specified time limit. Let's say, especially here, I think we need to protect our older fellow hunters who can happen to forget to bring or go annually to that technical inspection of their weapons and thus, because of their forgetfulness, they can pay quite a fine. I think it would be more appropriate to warn them then eventually they bring it in. We also need to know that weapons can have great value, not only financial but also the personal one when someone is connected to it. And I think it also ideologies the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because it is property private property, and it can be taken away in this way only because you did not hand over a particular document which is here to be listed. It will also increase jobs and ranks in front of the ministry's counters, and we will often have to be forced to go to other environments and to bring certain confirmations of what is achieved by this bill. It is also particularly interesting to suggest that after the owner’s death if he does not report a weapon to the family that he will be left without it. Listen, heirs don't just have to be that family. Therefore, the heir may be someone else. What's the one who has heirs out there who don't even know that their friend or cousin who left them all the property has guns? But they're heirs, so we can't just bureaucraticly set up and tell the family is in debt or heirs are in debt. I can even pay certain fines. I think that because of all this I should and because of what was mentioned earlier in the debates over the whole series, I would say the technical things that were written in the law that very well fellow Kovacevic was doing here, that such a law cannot go through in the second reading but that it needs to be corrected in writing first. And I'm asking the Secretary of State to at least make that part that applies, yes, yes, I need it fixed because I can't, I see my dear colleague Djakic is now correcting the wrong quote, and he knows as well as I do that no bullet bed is separated from the pipe, right? But it's written here. So I pray that such things can't be said that we'll fix it technically after but that kind of thing couldn't come to another law reading. Here I would try to list some of the articles that I think should be specifically pointed out to them and if the motionary does not show up after the debate of clubs that he will go into third reading we will also propose amendments to those members. So in Article 12, we believe that what I've been saying is that instead of five years, it takes 10 years. Furthermore, especially when it comes to getting ammunition for that weapon, I don't think it's necessary to administer and keep records as much as anyone buys ammunition annually because someone's dealing with it, someone's got a hobby to go to sports competitions and it can crack thousands of pieces of ammunition. And those of you who go hunting maybe a couple of times a year will crack a dozen pieces, but I also think it's unnecessary to run a administration like that. It's only enough with the gun list for a certain kind of weaponry to get as much ammunition as anyone wants as it has ever been. Also in articles 29, where it is said that ammunition cannot be found in the same weapons case. So there should be two carrying coffins locked and so on. I think it's unnecessary stuff. We know how things are going today and how to deal with it. Further on, when I was speaking, I think in Article 37, too, it should change because I'm saying someone who's going to be an heir and living outside doesn't even need to know that he's been left behind and part of the weapon that his cousin or family member still had. It's also a particular problem if one of our senior colleagues forgets to hand over certain papers, so it would be good to add in law that they will deal with these very high-value weapons. Since here and a little while and time is running out, I still have a lot of objections, so unfortunately I won't be able to talk about them all, but I'll try and look back. I also believe that so far it has been a custom for a weapons user to exist if the father and son are hunters. I don't think there's any reason either of them can't use the same weapon with two separate weapons lists. Here and finally I would repeat the meaning of these several important things especially about the certificate of availability of technical knowledge, for the correct use of weapons and the knowledge of the regulations relating to this holding and carrying. To try to find a solution for those who, according to their profession, already have such knowledge that they do not need to have special needs. And also because of this whole series of rigorousity and additional donations that every gun owner will have to give, I think, on behalf of the HSS Club, I'm saying that we refer this Bill of Weapons to the third reading and correct these irregularities that have been said in the debates of most of the club representatives so far, and I believe that even later in an individual debate, they will be further potentiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78120	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78121	Mr. Vice President, I would only correct the inaccuracies of my fellow Ledinsky, where he claimed he had to take the gun-handling exam. In accordance with Article 10(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 215/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2005 as regards the general budget of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Maybe you missed reading it, so I just wanted to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78122	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to say a few more sentences about the proposal for this arms law and to warn me of something that seems to me, unfortunately, to be present in the Croatian public, which has actually created one illusion that this bill and the adoption of this Bill on Weapons Croatia will solve one of the major problems, which is possession and abuse of illegal weapons. I join all those colleagues and colleagues who have spoken in the sense that this law will absolutely not be resolved. It will not be solved for the simple reason that the penalties provided for here are absolutely not enough for those who abuse them or hold illegal weapons of different kinds in different quantities. That's what I'd like to support on just one example that seems to me to actually show all the impotence and all the misery in possession, the use of illegal weapons and the consequences that it can lead to. There was a case he was in Zadar. It was current this year, or the current case spans somewhere from the second month of this year, and the case tragically ended in the tenth month of this year with the murder of the wife. In fact, somewhere in the second month in Zadar, a firearms shooting took place in the middle of the night in a parking lot. The two groups decided to account for each other. I don't know how many bullets are fired. Disturbed, of course, by citizens. True, no one was killed in that shootout. They were also detained. Somewhere in the sixth, they were in custody until further notice. Then, sometime in the sixth month of this year, everyone was released in court. So they were released because here it was found that there was actually no evidence, so lack of evidence. The weapon used in that shooting has never been found. And maybe everything else would have happened if the wife of one of them hadn't decided in that hour to leave him. She also requested a restraining order for his aggressive behavior, and in the tenth month, he killed his wife, of course, unable to bear that his wife was leaving him. He killed her and, of course, the article in the paper ends with the words “it is not yet known whether he killed her with the same weapon he was involved in the reckoning several months before.” I claim that this law will not prevent such cases and that those who wish to abuse illegal weapons will continue to abuse him, and the penalties they are told that this law provides for me are ridiculously small and I advocate for all those who consider that punishing the possession of the sale or I do not know what everything is not when it comes to illegal weapons that should be crossed into the criminal sphere. Because, as we have already said many times, someone will pay 2000 or 5000 kuna without a problem. Because if he's part of some criminal mob mile it's absolutely not gonna be a problem for him. And the second thing I would like to say in particular, which is the other day at a session of the Committee on Gender Equality, we asked what about the actions that we mentioned in the previous debate in the first reading. She used to be a "good-bye" action. Whether it will continue to be called that or have another name, which would encourage citizens who own weapons to return it without any consequences. It was then said that somewhere in April this year, a special commission was formed that should have been developed or developed a programme that would go to a media-based actually educational propaganda on the return of illegal weapons. I'm asking here if the program is made up, because it's said that somewhere at the end of the year he would be presented. But I'm asking another question. If it was made and it's planned that somewhere next year would go because I guess that's how it should be, then why aren't the funds secured in the budget. I did not find a specific item in the MIP budget for the following year and projections for 2008 and 2009 from which such a single campaign could be financed. And finally, I call once again here on the Secretary of State to accept the amendment given by the Committee on Gender Equality, which refers to the determination and how the fact of the disturbed family relations referred to in Article 10 will be determined, which speaks of whom the authorisation for the supply of weapons will be granted. The Committee considers that, since we have not been able to find anywhere in any of the laws and sublegal acts in which the police officer will collect data, we propose that the amendment should therefore be made in the article 110 which states which rules will be adopted by the Minister of the Interior within a few months to stand by and, among other things, to adopt a regulation laying down the procedure and method of verifying compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 10(2), point 5 and which concerns disturbed family relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78124	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78125	Well, I'd like to correct my colleague only in the part where we're talking about the legalization of weapons, i.e. an action that has been broken down by "good-bye weapons". In particular, the transitional and final provisions of the proposed law define that citizens without an armed list possessing weapons which may only be owned under the provisions of this Act on the basis of the arms documents are obliged to register it to the competent authority for registration within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act. If citizens comply with paragraph 1 of this Article and before taking exceptional police actions in accordance with the Law on Violations and for the perpetrator... the criminal offences and emergency investigations in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, i.e. the initiation of the application of the police powers laid down by the Police Act, shall not be criminal or criminal proceedings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's all said in this article. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78126	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78127	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. So again, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights and on my own behalf, I propose and the Proposer to accept our request that this law be directed into a third reading in order to remove all the shortcomings that are due to the fact that a literal translation of the directive has taken place, and in this way it is obvious that persons who do not take part in the wording of the weapons and ammunition are involved, and that there is a lot of these situations that would ultimately, if the law was adopted in this form, contribute even more to the greater part of legal uncertainty. But what's worse is the inapplicability of that law itself. In fact, you've seen for yourself that the more pronouncing in his part of the introductory use of the term masquerade. We know that it reminds us of Mark the Queen and it's anakran and it's certainly for the 21st century. Also, I'm still asking if anyone in this assembly knows what a weapon of magnatic ornaments and a lot of dignitaries is. In fact, that's what you're looking at in article 5. Probably no one knows in this assembly, and neither does the secretary of state. So, if you were to play the millionaire, it wouldn't work either, ask the audience of the MPs, and you wouldn't call the secretary of state if he didn't know how to answer either. So that's one consequence. I'm going to look further, not even the HSP expert team who was doing this asks what it is, what it is. In the expert team for the sake of Mr. Ferenck's sake, I'll just point out what I was saying earlier, and the court's experts were involved, so the people who are professional, who know what's guny, what kind of weaponry is necessary, should rule. Now I'm going to look back a little bit, that's 14-and-a-half pages of a tightly printed remark, I'm going to look back at article 7, which is about the professional service of the MUP in charge of art. The proposal on the professional service of the MUP is an attempt to push through someone's interests, deceive the Croatian public and permanently damage the state budget. It would occur exactly the opposite of the promised million kunas spoken of and in reason. First warning. What's this about? Some countries, even a small part of the European Union, which have large weapons and ammunition production, have facilities for testing and stamping these weapons and ammunition. Such institutions are civil on their own funding and have nothing to do with the state, let alone the police. What is proposed, i.e. Marking with the Croatian police as well as is known only in North Korea. More about millions of kunas. Croatia has no own production of firearms, except for a gun factory in Karlovac that virtually exports all production and does not need any police stamping. So there's a question of what our officers are going to brand. All weapons imported into Croatia have already been examined and stamped in the countries of production, so there is no need for this, and Croatia cannot, weapons and ammunition cannot be introduced into Croatia, which is not subject to CIP rules. In Croatia today, there are only a few thousand modified soldiers in hunting rifles that are not really branded. It was rewritten at the time of weapons legalisation, so police experts would have about six months to work. And then what? Then to the state budget. It's even proposed how many I've seen 14 new jobs and millions for the rest. The second deception, the taking of test-fired shells and grains from weapons for the successful solving of criminal offences is... What for the layman? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just give the money, no more crime. However, the taking of test-fired grains and shell casings from used weapons to owned citizens is nowhere in the world except North Korea. What's this about? Indeed, in some countries, above all in the United States, shells and grains are being tested, but in the factory, i.e. Before we put the guns on the market. Taking it later doesn't make any sense. On the other hand, our experts would take shells of grains for a bank of data from legal weapons, and the common thing is that we start off with a negligible number of criminal acts, somewhere only about 5%, and while 95% is being dropped on, criminal acts of arms have been committed for which, which is illegal. And the semi-written perpetrators of the crime and the semi-literate perpetrator of the crime know that the passage of the cranial paper or by means of a tour can thus alter the traces on the grains and casings that they are unusable for art. So he's trying to fool the public and grab part of the international aid at a small door, and when it's spent again on the burden of the state budget. The examination and stamping of weapons in the European Community, as well as worldwide, are carried out by specialised institutions that have a certificate, a CIP permit from Belgium, and not by police professional services, as set out in the draft law. Further related to arms trafficking and ammunition Article 71. Arms and ammunition can be used by companies and crafts, it says. The reference to this article does not refer to the transport of arms and ammunition on a large scale and what is the difference between these two transports. Current practice shows that most arms and ammunition importers are engaged in large-scale traffic because other than for the purposes of their trade, they resell these goods and other shops throughout Croatia. So, you're doing it in terms of the Proposal for a Law on Trade on Small, and you're trading on large. It should therefore be regulated by this provision of the law. Furthermore, Article 81 of the examination and marking shall be carried out by the professional service. Comments, I already told you about professional service in Article 70, and now I'm still talking about it. In democratic states, it's not what police professional services do. There is no monopoly in democratic states. Germany has 5, Austria 2. The CIP accurately prescribes space, equipment, expertise and time of trial for an institution and only afterwards recognises the stamps and other markings of the institution or state. And this solution is usually designed for one's privileges, monopolies, money, and it can't all be accepted in the Croatian Parliament. If someone is allowed a monopoly on a particular job, it means that they are allowed to monopolize and to set the price and everything else that goes with it. We therefore accept the solutions that exist in the countries of the European Union. Furthermore, I must also point out that this part of Article 100(5) will be delivered to the professional service for the purpose of incapacitation. Only now, at the end of the bill is it found out that this professional service would also incapacitate weapons. We'll probably have that circus again on Preradovic's square in Zagreb where the experts will be banging hammers on guns and thus incapacitating it. Suggestion. It's all said about professional service. The weapons should be disabled by the entities referred to in Article 72 of the Law proposal, and the way in which the weapons are disabled should be laid down means the Regulation. So I'm going to hand over these entire materials to Mr. Secretary of State. So it is about the remarks that are going to be a Croatian expression, to remove these parts of the literal translation of the European Union directive, and that all those situations that are badly translated documents are being translated and so that in the third reading we get a law that will be applicable and that we will reach a step in terms of what is now in Croatia the problem. But I'm saying, there's still the biggest problem of how and how to eliminate this illegal weapon, when we know for ourselves that over 95% of the crimes committed by using weapons or in other ways where it has to do with weapons were committed by persons who had illegal weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78128	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Mirko Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78129	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In that part, I agree with my colleague Kovacevic, therefore, on those remarks that he made especially now in this end regarding the interrogation of weapons, stamps, sensefulness, the purpose of what is obtained, probably nothing, except additional burdens on the owners of the legal weapons in us. I think the law has missed the most important one, which is to curb the possession of illegal weapons that are very much in Croatia. From all known situations, we had a war that ended ten years ago, and households are literally stockpiled with weapons. Many of my friends acquaintances, acquaintances literally have real arsenals of weapons, of course illegal, automatic which can neither be legalized, and these people are simply not stimulated or stimulated by this law or punishment. So I think the state should've even cash-stimulated the return of that weapon. Because it's known that every weapon should have, every weapon has its own price, and that many people have preserved and even buried, stored that weapon, they simply don't want it back because it's simply impossible to trace it, unless it's going to carry it. Legal penalties have not been imposed, the current law provides for fines ranging from one thousand to five thousand kuna or a 30-day prison sentence that will never occur in the practice of our courts. So from a thousand to five thousand kunas will be fined by one who carries, illegally owns, if he obtains or holds or carries a weapon for which approval is required. So the punishments are really funny, it actually stimulates and encourages people to carry that weapon. What situation do we have today in the night life of Zagreb? A dog gun, if the police catch you, it means from a thousand to five thousand kunas of punishment and nothing to anyone. And seized, clearly, the weapons that will be repossessed in five, a few hundred euros and that's it. And it has the greatest impact on the uncertainty of other people who behave normally in everyday life. Today, a large number of violent offenders are knowing that punishments are nothing, and I believe that the law should provide for unconditional prison sentences for possession and carrying illegal weapons. That's one thing. Today in Croatia, we have registered 51 thousand 453 licence holders for holding and carrying weapons. I personally consider from that category I will clearly abandon hunters and sports weapons. So, people who do business, they compete with sports shooting. I believe that only official persons should have permission to, or based on, do their job as a weapon. I don't think civilians should have, that's what I've got, I'll go from myself. I also have a weapon for which I have a license to carry and hold. I'm not wearing it, the weapon's in the house, stored. I simply don't feel the need to wear and believe that civilians should wear, especially not in this number of licenses to hold and carry weapons. You, Mr. Secretary of State, know how hands and hats have been shared by these licenses, by your uncle's grandmother, by friendly relationships, by the discretion of certain police officers, etc., etc. I think it's a disaster. Article 14, a natural person has a legitimate reason for the supply of weapons to defend himself if it proves that his personal safety is compromised or could be endangered to such a extent that his insurance would require weapons, and if, by reason of the nature of the particular circumstances in which he is supplying it, there is a need for the supply of weapons. Now it's unclear, Mr. Secretary of State, how a person can prove that her personal safety is compromised and that these are cases that are respected as... So does that mean if someone feels threatened they should put a gun to the dog or do we have institutions like the police, the state's attorney's office that should solve this situation? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the worst solution is that the law provides a gun, and legally, put it for a dog and carry it around so we can solve our own problems. I don't think that's the way it's supposed to be. In Article 15, the competent authority may issue authorisation for the supply of self-defense and holding and carrying weapons only for the purpose of holding. Well, it is generally known that sports weapons people use to go to competitions, to go to training, shooting sites, etc. It means that I don't see any reason why you wouldn't get automatic approval to carry that sport weapon you use, which people use for sport, or their recreation. A sport weapon designed to practice sports, which involves going to the shooting range. If they're going to go to the competition, it's understood that the owner will go to these competitions, and I think it's logical that such a weapon should be given approval for the acquisition to hold and carry arms. In Article 18, legal persons involved in filmmaking, showing theatre performances and holding traditional knightly games are allowed without... to obtain, hold, use weapons from categories A, B, C and D that are adjusted so that they can fire only false ammunition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not clear which weapon can fire false ammunition because it's common that it's a modified weapon, a real weapon, but it should be kept in mind that such a weapon can also be converted and returned to its previous state. I believe that this article should be better defined and clarified. Issuing authorisation for the supply of ammunition. Approval to obtain ammunition shall be granted by the competent authority if the applicant has a reasonable reason to obtain the requested type and quantity of ammunition. Which are justifiable reasons for the supply of ammunition if it is not in itself the fact that man owns a legal weapon and if he wants to do the shooting, he wants to go to the shooting range occasionally. After all, it is not unusual to crack several hundred bullets after one training, and I see no reason and I do not see why it would require special approval for the purchase of ammunition. I think it's enough that... He doesn't own a weapon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's my thinking and my attitude. Technical inspection of firearms, technical checks are regular and... That's what my colleague Kovacevic was saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's best that the owner takes the best care of the technical integrity of his weapon, and besides, as far as I'm concerned, it wasn't a single case of killing himself, of hurting himself because of the technical failure of the same weapon. I think it's just one extra charge against the owners of legal weapons that they don't need in this case. Look, I'm not going to go any further because other colleagues said, a colleague of Kovacevic said a few things that I agree with. Here, so I believe, but yet the main accent should have been to suppress illegal weapons. A mandatory medical examination is also introduced every 5 years, and I don’t know what the doctor will determine and what diseases the doctor will report, whether this should be a psychiatric examination because it is not, what does it matter if a person is suffering from any disease. That it's Hepatitis B, C, and now that I don't count, what does that have to do with having a weapon? Well, only a mentally unbalanced person can abuse that weapon. So this has nothing to do with the standard medical examination, nor will the doctor of general practice be able to determine. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78130	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78131	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, I'd say introductoryly, this law deserves our special attention for a number of reasons. One part of these reasons has been highlighted in the debates so far, but one part of the serious, important reasons is not clearly highlighted, and I will therefore take advantage of the opportunity, to warn of the importance of this law that comes out of the framework of only internal security but enters the sphere of global, international security. And in this sense, this Law deserves special efforts to dress up, to shape it in a way that represents not only a contribution to internal security in the Republic of Croatia but also a contribution to wider global security because proliferation, illegal retail trade and light weapons poses one of the most dangerous threats to the modern world, peace and security. So that dimension seems to me to be not sufficiently highlighted and deserves a little more of our attention. According to the United Nations, there are over 600 million pieces of small and light weapons in the world. Of the 49 major conflicts that were fought around the world during the 1990s, 47 were led mainly by small and light weapons. So, 96%. It is estimated that the global weapons category is responsible for more than half a million deaths, but annually more than half a million killed annually, or about 300 thousand killed in armed conflicts and about 200 thousand murder victims and suicides by firearms. With those weapons which we do not recognize enough in terms of Croatian language limitations, and I will refer specifically to the Council of Europe directives which clearly classify a certain kind of weapon which has not been mentioned here so far, and it deserves a little more attention. The fact is that the availability of all these types of light weapons deserves joint efforts, not only those legislative at the level of the Croatian state but also in the form of appropriate regional and international forms of cooperation, because various criminals, smugglers, lunatics, rebels, all those who should not have it unfortunately have it in their mood of almost unlimited quantities and represent a serious security threat. It has also been concluded in a broader security sense that there is an obvious backlog on the international agenda in terms of regulations that need to prevent illegal trade and proliferation of small arms and light weapons, and therefore this effort by the Ministry of Interior is extremely important, but it should also be said that the Council of Europe directives to which I refer in this Act are from 1991 and they are passed. Many things have changed in the meantime, and therefore our reference objective should not be and should not only remain linked to the Council of Europe's directives, although these Council of Europe Directives are not fully respected by certain articles of this Law and I will say more about it. Therefore, in the final version of this Law, more quality cooperation is necessary also with the Ministry of Defence because the Ministry of Defence has made certain remarks in order to clearly classify and recognise that category of weapons that apply to prohibited weapons as a really serious security threat. Strengthening international cooperation to prevent, combat, eradicate illegal trafficking in small and light weapons is also one of the priorities of our overall security policy, and in this sense, this Law must meet certain expectations in a broader sense. And here, so that we don't stay in abstract discussions, I'm going to concentrate a little on some concrete articles of this law that require appropriate changes. Here, article 6 of the category, it's a category of weapons that are forbidden. So there are no mechanisms that you can get permission to use that kind of weapon. However, when you look at category A on the Council of Europe directives, then you will see that number one is a positioned weapon, I will read in English as there is no adequate translation in Croatian, and here I would say serious confusion, inability to identify these types of weapons and identify them as the most dangerous terrorist weapons that are most wanted today. Thus, in Council Directives Europe, the category of prohibited weapons writes "Military Missiles and Launchers". Missiles is not the same as they have projected and therefore the Council of Europe directives use two terms "missiles and missiles" but in Croatian these two different terms which have a completely different meaning in the original English and functional sense were translated into a Croatian term called "projects". That's not true. That's not good. The category of piloted, guided missile systems of light, anti-aircraft, portable, light, portable, anti-aircraft systems also belongs to that category and, for this reason, the Council of Europe Directives have said under number one, a weapon that deserves special attention and special sanctions on its availability. However, we have extended this category A with those types of weapons that are indeed and in the original directives of the Council of Europe are not present, so there is no reason that in one of these categories of weapons like the guided rocket systems you have and cold weapons because criminal provisions must be significantly different so that language problems are more than evident, they are not cases, they are the result of insufficiently developed professions in the Republic of Croatia and in this sense there will be a need for efforts to also be made in terms such as "arms and Vepens" which are completely two different terms, and in Croatian they end in one word that I call, as we call weapons to make these things clearly different because in this context criminal provisions when we talk about this type of light portable weapons, specifically guided rocket systems, it is unacceptable to have criminal provisions which amount to 5 thousand kunas. It is a piece of weapons with a regular price of $100,000, therefore smuggling this type of weapon is an extremely lucrative job and therefore it seems to me that its categorization would be very useful given the restrictions in Croatian. Certainly, the conclusion that this legislative proposal is in line with the legal acts of the Council of Europe is questionable for these reasons, as I said the translation of the Council of Europe's Directive into Croatia is not uniform and in this sense a kind of weapon that deserves special attention at the level of wider international security is not sufficiently recognised, it can and must be done and believe that indeed the Ministry of Interior which has prepared a very important document will make these additional efforts in order to be not only in line with the Council of Europe directives since 1991, but in order for it to be at the level of all those expectations when we talk about wider global international security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78132	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78133	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The arms law has been amended several times in relatively short time since 1993, which best says that we have not achieved satisfactory control over weapons in the possession of citizens, and we also pass this law in order to increase the amount of fines and legalisation and hand over arms, putting certain types of weapons in the free supply regime, etc. etc. Because of its social significance, that is, the potential social danger of weapons, this law becomes an issue of interest and interest to the institutions and to a greater number of our citizens. The increased interest of weapons-enhancing citizens, i.e. the legal regulation governing this area, is present because of the specificities that the Republic of Croatia has been going through and through. Here first of all I think of the still close war events and the presence of a large amount of weapons in this area, but also others present with negative transition and globalisation processes in the Republic of Croatia. As far as we're concerned, I'm also... careful when it comes to the problem of illegal holding, or possession of weapons, its production, trade and smuggling. These negative phenomena favour criminal groups and greatly favour a potential increase in crime, which directly affects security in our country. Taking into account this and while respecting the recommendations made by the international community aimed at combating organised crime and terrorism, it is clear that all measures need to be taken to prevent and combat illegal production, procurement and possession and sale and trafficking as well as any other misuse of weapons and explosive substances. These proposed legal solutions are certainly on the verge of preventing potential dangers and the consequences that can arise with the state we currently have. In this direction, a number of measures offered by the proposed law are, by many and quite strict, but in view of the dangers that may arise from the irregularities of this area, a large number of registered weapons. We need to know that over 370,000 pieces of weapons are registered and that it's located with over 200 thousand people. For example, one of the questions that the current Arms Act has not addressed has not been the question of testing, marking and checking the technical correctness of the weapon. The main objective of the regulation of these measures is to exclude from legal traffic those weapons which do not meet the prescribed conditions without injure the constitutional right of citizens to own. So I'd like to point out the purpose of introducing a technical examination for weapons. It is above all to determine whether the weapon is rightly independent of the purpose for which the citizens possess it. Is it hunting, self-defense, and Dr. In view of the fact that there are no regulations in this area and the usual habits for owners to repair and modify weapons themselves, it can be expected that more weapons in the possession of citizens are even dangerous to use. In addition, technical examinations will be an indicator of the state of the weapon. Since the total quantity of registered weapons in the Republic of Croatia, almost 50% registered for hunting, we believe that the technical examination of this particular weapon is necessary. The hunting weapon is more commonly used and used in specific conditions, rain, snow, fog, different areas... etc. [[You don't understand.]] Now, as much as we believe it takes after a certain time to control the correctness of the weapon, we also hold that when it comes to hunters that every five years the checks are simply unnecessary for hunters and expensive, because there is no such review that will determine, that with those weapons owned by that hunter, there will be some kind of unforeseen crime or here. I think these checks should be done with those people who have already shown signs and gone to, therefore, some facilities for treatment, not with these hunters, so they've been properly registered and reported their weapons. By monitoring the state of crime, it has been observed that the problem of illegal possession of the production, trade and smuggling of weapons and explosive substances in the Republic of Croatia is still very relevant despite long-term activities carried out for voluntary handover and legalisation of weapons. We know how all of these weapons-related actions went, and dr. I still find it particularly important to reintroduce the possibility of handing over weapons without restrictions. In fact, citizens could call the police at any time to hand over their weapons, and that the person who owns such weapons and wants to hand it over would not be prosecuted or prosecuted. Of course, if the weapon prior to that is reported to the competent authority in order to take over the weapon. It should be stressed that legalisation and surrender of authorised and prohibited weapons are introduced according to a new model. The models so far have proved only partially successful and are now proposed that citizens do not bring their own weapons to the police for legalisation and surrender rather than call the police to whom they will hand over their weapons. So that would avoid what we've had so far, and that's when in certain public places a citizen with a weapon makes a mess when he's brought in and taken away his weapon. In most cases, such citizens would have said in court that they had just taken weapons to the police to hand him over. And by adopting this law, I don't think that's gonna be possible anymore. Finally, and in conclusion, I would like to say that the proposed law will certainly contribute to the reduction of all abuses of weapons and explosive substances and thus directly contribute to the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78134	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78135	Thank you very much. A colleague, Rebic, said that the current models of trying to legalise or return of non-legislative weapons have proved to be unsuccessful, it is incorrect. They proved successful, especially the last action. However, I am correcting the incorrect allegation that this proposed model, which is now proposed, could make something more and more significant a step because, in fact, the solution offered by this law is de facto legalizing illegal weapons. Because if you're able to permanently for the next 10 years, 15 years you've returned illegal weapons, you've de facto legalized them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78136	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I support certain adoption of this law that will introduce greater control over legal but illegal weapons. There was an argument here, counterpart Sobol said the illusion was created that Croatia would solve the problem of weapons with this law. Of course, no illusion has been created, and we need the law as a legal framework. And in order to solve the problem of weapons, it is certain that comprehensive measures are needed. So one of these is certainly also a measure and I am happy that our Parliament has joined the fight against domestic violence against women and that it is presented both by the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister and the Action Plan against Family Violence against Women. This is where it is placed means a clear message that such violence is unacceptable to us and that it will be severely sanctioned. I'd just like to look back at some articles of the law here, and I'd like to start with Article 10, which seems very important to me. In addition to these years of life that needs to be satisfied for the 21st year, meaning that it's not 18 anymore, and certainly that's good, I would have read paragraph 3. That such a person says he is not legally convicted of crimes against the Republic of Croatia, for crimes against the value protected by international law for crimes against life and bodies, crimes against the general security of people and property, and criminal offences containing elements of violence or low initiatives and are contained in criminal acts against property, against freedom and against man and citizen, against sexual freedom and against sexual miracles, against marriage, family, youth, against justice, against public order, against official duty, against the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. And then he says more crimes against the environment related to the torture and killing of animals or if such a crime has been initiated. So there's really a wide circle of what should be an obstacle to getting a license to carry a weapon here. Only in this paragraph would I say that it seems unclear to me because in the end it is said that if such a criminal offence is not being prosecuted, I think it should be here that if it is legally convicted or if it is not prosecuted. Because this is precisely the case in Article 4 of the Law, which states that it is not legally punished for an offence or that there is no criminal offence in the area of public order and peace and other laws which are prescribed by violations of the elements of violence, particularly for a violation of domestic violence or for a protection measure for domestic violence. In particular, I would refer to medical examinations here. Here, various measures have been highlighted that speak of this, a fellow Filipovic said, so how will a general medicine doctor assess who this is because of the health condition, incapacitating and carrying weapons? Other colleagues said that such checks were unnecessary and expensive, so I would refer to them. There's a rule on health checks to determine health skills for holding and holding and carrying weapons that are true from '92. The year and I believe that, now, I have information that he will change and coordinate, in which it is clearly stated who is conducting such examinations, and it is the impression that it is done only by a specialist in medicine. He is the true president of this committee but he is now involved in eye disease specialist because a psychiatrist here is still writing a neuropsychiatist or whatever. And a psychologist, where there's a tax code that's all the diseases that can affect safely, means the ability to hold and carry weapons. Plus, these checks aren't as expensive as they thought it would endanger those who hold and carry guns. They cost 370 kuna, and that's exactly where this price shows, and with this kind of exposure in the House, it's actually how much health care is looking at again. It's really like one final social measure. If any master came to us to fix us in the house some machine and charged us that much then we'd be very happy how cheap we went and gave him a tip. And when it's a medical examination that we see three specialists and a psychologist are involved, then it's 370 kunas expensive and we think it's going to jeopardize the material condition of those who hold and carry guns. I therefore believe that such a review should be carried out every 5 years for the simple reason that it has and one preventive effect that those holding that weapon will, however, take a little more care of their health and their behaviour. So, here when it comes to referring to extraordinary medical examinations, particular attention should be paid to the fact that in practice, very little is used that any selected physician is primary healthcare as well as any other doctor who has knowledge of the change in health condition or the course of treatment that may affect the health ability to hold and carry a weapon is obliged to report it. I must say that in practice very little works and that it must certainly be improved in order to be effective in this law and with the purpose of reducing the abuse of holding and carrying weapons. We can see that those are also meant to be punished. Personally, I think that these penalties are for a doctor, they should certainly implement such measures, but those penalties are too great. So he says that from 2 to 10 thousand or 45 days in prison will be punished for the violation of the chosen primary health care physician as well as any other doctor who immediately informs the competent authority about the change of health or the course of treatment of the gun owner. As long as it's a fine for illegally holding a weapon from 5 to 15 grand and a prison sentence of 60 days. I think they're unequal punishments. I consider these to be too small while I consider those who refer to health care personnel too large, although this provision really needs to be respected I say for the purpose of efficiency. In the case of criminal provisions referred to in Article 94, such fines are also minor penalties for weapons to be given to arms on the use of children. These should be significantly more severe penalties. We witness unfortunately many deaths of such use of weapons in children. I would also like to report for an extraordinary medical examination that is somehow seen as being a doctor himself, perhaps or the environment, that this is somehow directed against the very person holding and carrying the weapon. And I think it's precisely for her benefit that there will be no abuse of such holding and carrying of arms. And on the other hand, if it turns out that a person is capable of carrying a weapon such a cost of that examination means carrying the body that instructed him, so I don't see anything controversial in these medical examinations, I think they are necessary and they act in some way and preventively. When we look at this coherence, then we see that with the regulations and acquiss of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, we see in this table that most of it says that it is harmonised, there may be this, as colleagues have said, in some statements and some translations that it is necessary to correct but I think how much I see these remarks that have been made that some things can be resolved by amendments and that no third reading is required. I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78138	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to a word on this agenda point. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78139	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Namely, speaking of this Arms Act, we must remember that in the Republic of Croatia the Arms Act was passed in 22.10.1992 and that in the next period, twice in '93, then '94, '97, '99, 2001, 2002, the Arms Act was amended so that it could be applied as best and as high as possible in the Republic of Croatia, in order to be more consistent with the laws in the environment i.e. in the European Union. The first major amendments to this law were made in '95. A year. The concepts of hunting and sports weapons, self-defense and ammunition are widely defined. An obligation to enroll the purposes of weapons in the armed list has been laid down. The arms procurement regime with the obligation to register on which the crossbows, air and gas weapons were declared has been abolished, the amount of penalties prescribed has been increased, and the obligation to impose a safeguard measure of confiscation has been imposed on all infringements. Some new violations have been prescribed, and a new deadline has been set for handing over arms and registration of weapons without any designation of origin, so-called. The legalization of weapons. In almost all amendments to the laws, the registration of weapons is prescribed without the designation of origin. So-called legalization and handing over forbidden weapons. Thus, the first legalisation and handover of prohibited weapons after the law came into force was from 30.10.1992 to 30.4.993 and there were seven legalisations and six handovers of arms and lasted in the interruptions from 31.12.2002 and during that period 33 thousand 598 pieces of automatic firearms, a million and 670,000 355 pieces of firearms, 5 million and 80 thousand 693 pieces of ammunition and 7 thousand and 601 kilograms of explosives were handed over. However, as the most significant amendments, those prescribed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Weapons which took place in '99 may be listed. years because a significant step has been taken in the control of the health condition of persons holding or carrying weapons. In fact, until then, the belief of the medical ability to hold and carry weapons did not have a time limit. In addition to the doctor’s report on the change in the health status of the person holding or carrying the weapon and the observation of police officers, it was not possible to control the health status of the gun owner. The following is a limited period of validity of the opinion of a person holding or holding a weapon for ten years and it is also prescribed that the armed paper should not be issued if the health certificate is more than three months old. However, it is not prescribed that the period of validity of the armed list is related to the period of validity of the medical conviction. It is also prescribed for citizens who have registered weapons and from the day of registration it has been ten and more years to deliver a conviction of health ability to hold or hold or carry weapons. The amount of fines has been increased again and it is also prescribed that a 60-day sentence be imposed for those who are not authorised to obtain arms, hold and carry, manufacture, sell, exchange or grant other weapons or ammunition whose supply, hold, carry, manufacture, sell, exchange and concession is prohibited. The age limit for the supply and possession of weapons has been increased from 18 to 21 years of life except for employees of the Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Defence, Croatian Armed Forces, criminal and correctional institutions authorised under special regulations to hold and carry arms and members of the sports, shooting... in shooting with a written... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian shooting alliance as well as members of hunting associations for hunting weapons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most recent amendments and additions to the Law on Weapons in 2002, except that they prescribed an extension of the deadline for handing over and legalisation of arms and the delivery of assurances on the health capacity to hold or hold and carry arms, also prescribed the moment when persons who submit arms or submit a request for legalisation do so within the legal time limit. In fact, it has been demonstrated through court practice that all those persons found on a warrant or search for criminal offences have been released for illegal holding and carrying of arms, and therefore the prosecution was both suspended or prosecuted because the law was so valid and thus could be defined as not being what is different in this bill today. It is therefore prescribed that the handover of arms and the application for the legalisation of weapons may be submitted prior to the launch of the investigation of criminal offences, essential investigations in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure or the initiation of the application of police powers under the Police Act. So far, this has not been a practice since 2002, and therefore the mass of those found in the reconnaissance could have avoided a court order or a criminal or criminal application for unauthorised holding and carrying of weapons. The issue of illegal possession of production, trade, arms smuggling and explosive substances in the Republic of Croatia has been noted during the monitoring and movement of crime. Despite long-term activities carried out for the purpose of voluntary handover and legalisation of weapons, the judiciary is as if larger quantities of weapons and explosive substances still exist in the illegal possession of citizens, which pleases criminal groups and individuals engaged in illegal trafficking and arms smuggling and those whose weapons are used as a means of committing criminal acts. These circumstances are extremely favourable to the continued increase in this type of criminality, which poses a significant threat to general security in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Respecting the international community's recommendations and efforts to combat organised crime and terrorism, it is necessary to take all available measures and actions to effectively prevent and combat illegal production, purchase, possession, sale, smuggling as well as any other misuse of weapons and explosive substances. The first step in the above is to prescribe, sign protocols against illegal production and smuggling of firearms. The United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime shall be complemented by its parts and ammunition. The said Protocol obliges Croatia to take all appropriate measures and to engage in international cooperation with other measures at regional and global level. The second extremely important step was also the creation of a Law on Weapons which is in line with the directives on control, procurement and holding of arms from, namely, the abolition of arms control at the internal borders of the community, making it necessary to adopt an effective rule that will allow the control to be carried out within the Member States in the procurement and holding of firearms themselves and when transferring them to another country. The security of the citizens of the community will therefore be greater if the adopted rule of the above-mentioned directive strengthens the harmonised laws. The Directive therefore proposes to determine a category of firearms whose procurement and holding for citizens would be prohibited or would require approval or application. In addition, one of the community's basic tasks is to prevent illegal arms trafficking. Therefore, the new Law on Weapons, in addition to compliance with European legislation and the practical application of the provisions of the Protocol, provides for greater security for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to one of the more important issues raised by the current Arms Act, the question of the examination of the marking and verification of the technical correctness of the weapon has not been identified. In the Republic of Croatia, 370,000 800 pieces of firearms were registered on 15.11.2006 and it is also owned by 201,000 and 207 persons. The primary objective is to exclude from legal traffic those weapons that do not meet the requirements of a weapons investigation so as not to injure the constitutional right of citizens to possess things. Therefore, the procurement of a marking system with a brand of firearms, so-called firearms, will be accessed. "IBS" which would be partly funded by the "Cards" of the European Union programme and create a single weapons database and would also be through the accompanying subsystems solved the problem of technical and incorrect and worn-out weapons. [[Intruder: Lock down please!]] Speaking of this law, I think it's all said through this. The categorization, changes and additions in all the species that have been made are heading towards improvement and the quality of the weapons, the supply of ammunition...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78140	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78142	Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78143	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are witnessing that we are a country that has come out of a difficult and long-term war, which has led this war defensively under the arms supply embargo, so it is no wonder that a large amount of this weapon has lagged since the war between our citizens without real identification and legalization. In addition, the monitoring and movement of legality has seen that the problem of illegal possession, production, trade and trafficking of weapons and explosive substances in the Republic of Croatia is still very current. Despite long-term activities carried out for the purpose of voluntary handover of arms legalisation, it is estimated that more weapons and explosive substances are still found in the illegal possession of citizens, which is suitable for criminal groups and individuals to deal with illegal trafficking, arms smuggling and persons serving as a means of committing criminal acts. So far, the attempt to bring arms under control by amending and supplementing the law and legalising and handing over weapons has shown some success because they have encouraged citizens who have one or possibly two pieces of a weapon to hand it over and register it. With the rest of the weapons, murders, suicides, or injuries occur every day, either intentional or accidental, as well as other accidents. In addition, the Republic of Croatia, as a signator of the Protocol against the illegal production and smuggling of firearms, its components and parts and ammunition supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, which ratified it on 7.11.2002, committed itself to taking all appropriate measures and for this purpose to include in international cooperation and other measures at regional and global level. As the Council of the European Communities has laid down rules for the control of the supply and maintenance of weapons by the European Community Directive as of 18 June 1991, allowing for the control of the supply, registration and movement of weapons within the Member States of the European Union and the fact that the purpose of the Republic of Croatia's entry into membership is to create this new Law on Weapons. The Directive proposes that the category of firearms to which the procurement and holding of citizens would be prohibited or would require approval or application. That's how we categorize weapons into four categories. The first is a prohibited weapon, then a weapon for which prior approval is required, and then a weapon that needs to be declared to the competent authority and a final weapon which does not require approval or notification to the competent authority. The question arises as to how to determine whether this is a weapon that will thus be registered and which is already registered and owned by citizens to determine whether it is the right or wrong weapon when the applicable Law on arms and its amendments and additions have never established the obligation to control the weapon. In order to introduce order on the technical regularity of the weapon, the Institute of the so-called Institute is introduced. Technical examination. To this end, it is proposed to set up an expert service of the Ministry of Interior responsible for the art of weapons which will carry out the examination, marking and verification of the technical regularity of weapons in accordance with the provisions of the CIP. Most Member States of the European Union would accept those standards. The Ministry of the Interior would have obtained a system to mark and firearms so-called firearms. The IPS, which would be partly financed from the CARDS project, would create a single weapons database and would also solve the problem of technically invalid weapons through the accompanying subsystems. In this way, technical illegal weapons would be excluded, and in addition that system considered from the point of view of security was used to collect data, samples of firearms registered in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. More specifically, a firearm test would be carried out before marking a mark, which would then be stored at the IBIS central database and made available for comparison. This would significantly speed up the process of identifying unknown firearms and detecting unknown perpetrators. In addition, the so-called reintroduction is reintroduced. The legalization of weapons. Even though we had it, we've already said it on several occasions, and that's how a large amount of weapons were collected. However, the models so far have proved partially successful as we have already said in previous exposure that there is still a large amount of weapons in the possession of illegal citizens. With this model, citizens themselves bring weapons to the police for legalization and surrender. They don't bring it in like they're alone by now, but they report to the police who come into the apartment and take out their weapons. That's significant. We've already explained that a few times. It is significant for that reason to avoid those traps that when they were found in police control of weapons in a car or in a citizen's apartment, then he could always take it out that he was about to hand over that weapon to the police right now. This law exclusively states that when a criminal, criminal or any police procedure begins, it is no longer worth the apology that we are exactly, that the citizen was just about to hand over that weapon. It is not the fact that if we extend that deadline six months later, as was usually the action so far, then we de facto legalize illegal weapons. No, because there's always the possibility of a weapon being found by a citizen who didn't hand it over, and there's always the possibility that one of the citizens himself feels that he doesn't need a weapon, that he wants to hand it over, and that he won't be held accountable. Otherwise, once the deadline is closed, there is no longer the possibility and the weapon in that moment that remains with the citizens will always remain illegal because there is no possibility of voluntary surrender. Besides, I also want to explain these checks for five years. It is known that at any time a disease may occur that is not in line with the fact that one can carry, possess, and carry weapons. And it is important that, just in the case of mandatory examinations for the authorisation to carry and hold arms, the doctor has an obligation to report these changes to the medical condition. So far it has not been, and we have had very unpleasant experiences in these medical examinations, very unpleasant experiences that people who were not generally allowed to handle and keep their weapons committed murders and thus major accidents to families. Finally, sanctions for violations have been increased and brought into line with the Violation Act. The Proposer maintains that if unwitting citizens manage to avoid all prescribed norms they will not be able to pass through the drastic sanctioning of their illegal procedures. For all of these reasons, in order to improve efficiency, I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78144	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78145	Well, it's an incorrect assumption that a de facto solution can be returned in the long run without restrictions on weapons de facto does not legalize illegal weapons. Because if you have a gun owner, he can be 10 or 20 years old and decide when to return it. So it's de facto you legalize because he's potentially able to always legalize it. I mean, the pure logical conclusion without any knowledge of philosophy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78146	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll only try to talk about one segment if I have time for this personal discussion. But we'll give some grades in five minutes final on behalf of the club. So allow only one element that has not been said so far not to repeat everything that my fellow MPs have already criticised in a certain way, and it is actually something that, in my personal court, this proposal for a new arms law would have to solve, and it is absolutely not even buried beneath the surface of that problem compared to the existing law. It is articles 43 to 50 relating to weapons confiscation and ammunition. I'm going to give you a few examples and I'm sure everyone who owns the weapons either had or very often had such problems, and it concerns the fact that today, that today, the gun owners are actually unscrupulous or if you want to even in a certain sense and scrutinized in a certain way, covering some of the false reasons actually the safety of citizens. In fact, it has already been mentioned here several times that I do not repeat that certain crimes are actually committed to the greatest extent over 90%, in fact, by illegal weapons, etc. So, I don't remember any example of where there's a legal weapon, except for what was mentioned also in the debate I mean from fellow Lucin where a police officer actually recently shot a man in the head from an official weapon, and beyond the duty of another trafficker, let's call it that about a banal argument. Besides, I don't remember any other example where, in fact, legal gun owners committed some serious crime, but I certainly don't deny that such things exist. However, these articles from 43 to 50 on the seizure of weapons and ammunition tell you about this practice. Let's just say an anonymous application by some man, anyone, it may be a neighbor, it doesn't have to be a neighbor, to mention, as mentioned in the existing law, but somewhere some people simply out of the sheer evil of reporting to another man that he threatened them with physical injury or insult or insulting his national feelings or anything else, and not even with a weapon, but simply threatened. He threatened to slap him. And after that, by filing such an anonymous application to you as a hunter, shooter, or any other gunman in the house, the police are coming to your house to take away your weapon. The police also, so I'm based on only those threats. He found that, if, in fact, reports, anonymous reports that I was threatening someone, the police are coming to me at home, taking away my weapons. He can take away my weapons either because of some misdemeanor or criminal proceedings being conducted on the basis of the application of, say, a responsible person, like my manager, director, management president or something like that at a company where I've been working, that I've been acting strangely lately when he's fired a disciplinary measure at me for no reason at all, so I've looked at him strangely, he's taken it as a threat or I don't give God any offense, he's said something offensive. I base you on that, that criminal charges his police are coming to me, taking away my weapons. The weapon is taken away even when it's just a discretionary decision by a police officer and there's no need to explain at all. They just explain it by the existence of indications. I don't have to find out at all what the indications are or what they're notifying me about it, and it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. A police officer comes in and says you're taking away your weapons with the existence of an indicator. I say which ones. There's nothing you can do about it. The administrative process of confiscation, there are indications and the end of the story. After we say to ourselves that I will abuse the weapon or even question the medical condition of someone's judgment, so some police officer estimates that I am a questionable health condition. Based on these indications that he has that I'm the questionable health status comes, issues a decision and takes away my weapon. Of course, after he took it away from me by putting himself in the position of both the judge and the doctor and the doctor at the same time as his discretionary police officer's right to do so all the time. The administrative procedure to actually issue me a solution to the confiscation of weapons. But it was taken from me first. Now you see such a procedure the European Union does not know. No country of the European Union knows such a thing and it is unacceptable for the European Union to take away, without a lawsuit, without anything proven to me in any way, weapons, completely, so without a court, without judgment, without a judicial verdict, without even a charge, and even if the investigation shows that all these indications which allegedly existed to take away my weapons are not standing at all. All this stuff for me has absolutely nothing to do with it. I've been stripped of my weapon. And according to Article 50 of the existing law, this happens with a solution to the temporary confiscation of weapons. Under the law, this decision on the temporary confiscation of arms after a few weeks, whether against the owner or not any offence or criminal proceedings has been initiated, whether or not it has been demonstrated that these indications stand or do not stand, whether at all someone has investigated those indications by means of which I have been given a solution to the temporary confiscation of weapons by a famous, this famous discretionary law of one administrative decision, this temporary solution, after a few weeks, is converted into a solution to the confiscation of weapons with the right to compensation. So it's being taken away permanently. Nothing has been proven, nor has any action been initiated, nor has anything happened. By the force of the law, I was taken away from the weapon permanently by an anonymous application of one I would say to a malicious neighbor or a man or my boss or anyone else or anything else. Such a hijacked weapon, no matter what some colleagues say it's terrible, I warn them to compare it to, say, someone accused him of driving drunk yesterday and having a police officer come home and take his car away. And after someone, for a while it gets kind of scary. I point out here that there are people who actually earn a living by owning a weapon on the basis of such broad powers of the administration. They're different hunting services, they're different hunters, so they're people who actually do a job that they need to own and carry weapons like hunting weapons, etc. So I don't want to make any comparisons with the fact that the police can catch a man in a bad alcoholic state several times to drive a car and that he's not going to take that car away from him. And neither temporary nor permanent nor any discretionary law. So I personally think that the provisions of this law in this part of the constitution are questionable, because it's actually about personal property, which when it comes to collectors, shooters or people who possess weapons, simply from some sentimental values, as a weapon given to them by the minister for some special merits, etc. In fact, it's an invaluable weapon, and that one anonymous application can actually end up being consigned and sold to anyone at any price, and it actually becomes completely inaccessible to them. In fact, by studying the law to caricate to the end. By studying these provisions of the law and studying this law, we can freely conclude that there is no situation at all where you cannot be deprived of weapons, even if it is collectorial. There's no situation like that. In this country there is no such situation where you can't have this property taken away, and it's property that any time except for sentimental or collectorial or sports reasons can be invaluable, it actually...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78148	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78149	I'm done. That weapon actually represents property and very expensive property. Therefore, we believe that a permanent confiscation of weapons with the right to compensation can only be determined on the basis of a final and adjudicated court decision, and not by administrative assessment of existing or non-existent indications based, for example, on an anonymous application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78150	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78151	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said when a police officer suspects my health, he comes and takes away my weapon. That's not true. When reasonably suspected of the medical ability to hold and carry weapons, it is referred to an extraordinary medical examination and then a medical committee, it determines whether you are capable of holding weapons. ... No, you don't have to go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] After 15 days, you have to bring it in. But as far as article 10 is concerned, I agree that it really creates broad possibilities for individual interpretation and abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78152	Replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that my colleague Rosic is absolutely right when he talks about how to take weapons, and that has already been so far and the practice that the police existed and in that war wind were also taking away the trophy weapon. I know one case in Varazdin, it's about a person of another nationality, but it's much less important. It was a trophy weapon that was missing, it was simply unclear to me that any weapon that was seized could be missing from the police administration. Why it didn't work out, the record was made, all of it suddenly disappeared because it was a very valuable weapon, but then we get to what you rightly pointed out. An individual's struggle with the system and with the state to receive just compensation for such a weapon. There is a problem that this gentleman, who is a loyal Croatian citizen or everything else, is fighting a battle with the MUP today to compensate him for material damage, because when the state needs to pay something, then it turns out that it's worthless, that there's no price and maltene that he stole the maltene himself. And those who've been estranged from the police department, they've been replaced by every lead, they don't know who they are, because in the end, if anything goes missing from the police, it seems to me that someone should answer, that the police in their ranks should be the easiest to find those who are alienated or better to say who are thieves. And I'm afraid this law will be misused in this way and I'm right to point that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78154	Replica response, Honored Representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78155	Thank you very much. So, colleagues of Korenika, look at what I've pointed out in this whole story is that once a weapon is temporarily taken away, it simply by law becomes a permanent solution, and that nothing has happened in the meantime, they have not started any proceedings or even applications have been rejected. So the man wants his weapon back, not just a fair fee, but his weapon back. You can have a caricure, you can have a permanent weapon taken from you if you disrupt public order and peace, I don't know, to be explicit to the end, say by urinating along the road. You're being prosecuted, you're being stripped of your weapon, and you have no right to be returned to you, but you're under the impression that a fair fee you may never get.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78156	Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78157	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a very interesting final draft of the law on the agenda which, in the explanation, states among other things that there are more than 371,000 pieces of weapons in Croatia that have and possess persons, i.e. citizens of more than 202 thousand citizens. And of course, when you look at it that way, it's seriously concerned with the aspect of a legalized, even more illegal weapon because in many evaluations and assessments, there are data that there are three or four times as many times as legalized. And in this respect, it is absolutely certain that it is necessary to regulate this area by law and also to prescribe more stringent measures that will primarily lead to the order of illegal weapons and which illegal weapons carriers will actually sanction and create assumptions that some issues will be resolved. But it seems to me that such a proposal, the final bill we've got, should go into the third reading. There are a whole series of provisions that should be significantly completed and repaired in order for it to be in accordance with the Constitution, in order to ultimately resolve some fundamental issues, and in addition to that, if I may say so, to continue the action "Goodbye to the weapons" aimed primarily at collecting weapons from the owners who do so illegally, to break down on persons who have legal and legitimate weapons with all the permits and certificates issued by the competent authority. Well, let me get this straight, but first I'd like to point out something else. Among others, in preparation for this item of the agenda I also received a very interesting reflection of the National Arms Society of Croatia which practically put almost every other member of the objection regarding this law, what should be corrected, corrected and completed. And it seems to me that they have a lot of very fair reasons when they put these questions on the table, I'd like to mention it this way at the same time. And now allow a few things that motivate me first to the solution about going into third reading. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is predicted that the weapons carrier may only be authorised to hold or carry arms if he is 21 years old. I'd like to remind you that in article 14. The Constitution guarantees certain rights to everyone in the Republic of Croatia, that Article 16 also states that freedoms and rights can be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, and legal order, public morality and health. Dear colleagues, neither the legal order nor the rights of other people nor the health is threatened by the fact that someone is 18 or 21 years old. Therefore, these laws, the Constitution stipulates the conditions that can be limited and this is a restriction because everyone at 18 gets civil rights and freedoms, the limitations of a part of civil rights and freedoms are actually at stake. And in addition, further, you know, Article 14 states that all are equal before the law. Now I'm asking a very open question and a responsible example is doing, does this mean that all those under the law are equal that when young cops end up as official, they finish high school, there are exams and they become cops, they won't be able to carry guns, and until they're 21 years old? Does that mean soldiers won't be able to carry guns until they're 21? Does that mean that security guards won't be able to carry guns until they start working if they don't have 21 years in companies that have the permits and the ability to organize. Dear colleagues, it is the fact that they must pass the exam, obtain certificates, etc., but if they are all in accordance with the Constitution before the law, then they cannot bear arms 21 years ago either. I don't think that's what's been taken care of at all, and I'm warning you of this constitutional provision. Therefore, it is necessary to further resolve and edit this. The second issue of constitutional law has already opened a respected colleague, Rosic, and many others, it is a property issue. Of course, ownership can also be administratively, therefore, restricted by law among other things, or taken away, with market value compensation, but when. The constitution is very precise. When it comes to security, the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia, nature, nature protection, human environment and human health. Dear colleagues, none of these arguments are justified nor constitutionally laid down in the law elaborated from the constitutional aspect where such legal conditions can be obtained in order to meet the constitutional norm that can be... and pay off the market... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's an administrative very strange one, if I may say so, sometimes solutions that actually impose obligations on gun carriers and on one hand, and usually pay compensation for missing some kind of shop or some kind of action. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third remark that I would like to clearly and unequivocally point out is about the fact that I personally strongly support the action related to the extension of the 'Good-bye weapon' action. But here, for sure, there must be some stimulating, additional measures to actually collect weapons, not only short pipes, but mostly long pipes and mine explosives that are in possession of a large number of our citizens as the rest or consequences of the Homeland War. In such a situation, an additional question needs to be considered in particular, so that you can enter the field and examine a particular citizen and take away his weapon. At the same time, in the transitional provisions, you leave the possibility that within 6 months a man can be determined to return the weapon. Which in a situation like that, actually, when he's elected, that's what I was about to return. Therefore, I think that this issue should be settled in quality by law, and in this respect it is quite clear that these solutions, which are now not offered, are a good basis for discussion and have motivated me to debate, but are not good solutions. The solutions should still be fixed in the third reading. Now there's one thing that really surprised me. It's so-called. The technical examination of the weapon, it's so-called. Tomentation or marking of weapons, so it's a matter of forming actually a professional weapons engineering service at the Ministry of the Interior. Well, look, we have a special Center for Criminal Arts Ivan Vučetic. Which is why, which will now be a professional service for technical weapons skills at the ministry will be better than Ivan Vučetic's Institute. Absolutely nothing. Absolutely nothing. Therefore, it is quite clear in this respect that, in fact, if this is already to be introduced, it should raise the question that this is being done by the Center for Criminal Art "Ivan Vučetic", but now the question remains what is meant by the technical examination of the weapons from time to time. Who is this addressed to and for whom? It is actually prescribed to create a new condition for payment of compensation and taxes to the ministry. I must say, in this respect, if one analysis is made that would only cover the issue of marking and technical examination issues, say for 20 thousand pieces of weapons and 50 thousand pieces of extra to be examined technically annually, that costs about 11 million kuna. This should be paid by citizens of this country who are legally and legitimately carrying weapons and who are generally not guilty of such accidents. Therefore, this is a question that we should make sure that we know that, by the Constitution and by the law, the owner is bound as property, he must maintain it. Thus, no, especially when it comes to weapons, it is quite clear that it is not necessary for you to not go to the technical examination to be told because you were accidentally not well maintained or maintained. As far as I'm concerned, re-labelling itself. So what's going to happen with the new marking compared to what you have situations that were done in factory, technical, and everything else in determining the new weapon when you got it. The fourth group of questions is a question related to the carrying of weapons. You know, carrying a weapon apart in every holster especially, apart from ammunition, etc., I think it's a push-on-the-line thing that actually doesn't improve anything and solves the situation related to that part about the transfer and transport of weapons. But of course it also sharpens administrative measures against those who have legal and legitimate weapons, not those who have illegal and illegal weapons. Now, a few things that should be looked at like this, purely banal. Take, for example, Article 94. Among other things, it is prescribed that 20 to 200 thousand kuna will be punished by a legal person who is unauthorized, and now lists a variety of things, among other things, carrying a weapon. Well, I haven't met a single legal person walking around carrying guns yet. That's... , a legal person is a company, a legal entity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has nothing to do with that, etc. Or Article 95 where it is said, among other things, that a fine of up to 5 thousand kuna will be fined, it seems to me, point 24, to punish a person if he does not notify the competent authority within the prescribed time limit for the sale of arms after the death of the gun owner, etc. ... So how far are we going to get our colleagues to go? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, someone died, kids in the end line, or heirs didn't even have to know he was the weapons carrier. Therefore, if he does not report it in 60 days, he will be fined in cash, and so on, or even more banal, in 96, he will be punished if he has not reported and changed his personal name or residence, or rather what enters the Law of residence and residence we have now installed here to punish legal and legitimate weapons holders. It is obvious that the law is really important, important to work out, and I therefore propose and ask that the law goes into third reading, that by the third reading it is corrected and corrected by the Law because the idea it wants to achieve is in fact very supportive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78158	Thank you. We're going to a five-minute club debate. First, IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78159	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, When I talked about the security of the country on Friday, then I may have been reminded by the President of the Parliament that this is not the case, but regardless of all this opportunity, I will use it to say that in a year and a half it was planted under cars in Croatia 81 or fire or explosions. I'm willing to even put my hand in the fire that in a year and a half, 81 explosions under cars have not been planted in Basra. It's true, it's about auto-bombs, and it's about arson. I don't want to talk about it anymore. I don't want to go to this law anymore. The law here is necessary. Everything needs to be done to remove this residual weapon, mostly from the Homeland War, I think that automatic wararms are being removed from our apartments. Better to have a snake in your apartment than a gun. Finally, it's the weapon that's in the last, however anyone understands it. It's the weapon that's done most suicides in the last 10 years, but most of the murders, most of the crimes of burglary, kidnapping, robbery, but the most tragic thing that's happened to them in our families, if you want the most unfortunate cases, and that's why we have to try to convince our citizens that these weapons are being deprived so that the next day doesn't happen to them, an accident that would make them regret their whole life. Finally, in the end, without being left behind to call it a weapon, it would certainly be safer for the country as a whole. No one is against it as some have said that hunters are being defended by hunting, no one is against our citizens collecting trophy weapons, it's all normal, it's all fine, it's finally guaranteed by the Constitution, it guarantees us laws, but for the rest of it automatically or I don't know what kind of Homeland War weapon that many have paid by the last mark would be best to give up to the police. I'm talking clearly about military weapons. That weapon may never commit a crime, there may never be an accident, but I still think we'd all be safer if we hand that weapon over to authorized police officers. I think that's the point of the law, and for that principle, I'm also a true advocate. As far as the money goes, no matter how much I'm not a hunter, I'd be the last one to defend it. In fact, I also know what this hunt means to some people, I know what hunters on the other hand mean to our community, what they're number, and I know that no community can do without the money. But to end, this Hunting Act, which the Law speaks of in some 10 articles, is not the point of this Law on Production, Import, Export of Weapons, but above all about security. And if we are in agreement that our safety would be greater without any other weapons, then I think that we should be in favour of the law and that there is no need to be politicised and that these laws neither win nor gain, or lose political points. In one word, it is necessary to remove that residual weapon mainly behind the Homeland War, that automatic weapon, the war weapon, that I will not be afraid to achieve this Law either, but it is necessary to keep talking about it and in some way motivate citizens to avoid these accidents. If we have on the other hand, that is my opinion, the rigorous penalties in the law will sooner detimulate or detimulatively affect the owner of this illegal weapon than it will stimulate him to get rid of that weapon. With rigorous punishments in it so far we haven't succeeded, let's try it now with this soft version, maybe under quotes "stimulative" will work. With Mr. Rožić on these solutions for the temporary confiscation of weapons based on discretionary evaluations of officers working in police administrations, etc. In principle, I agree, but I think that's how he tried to interpret it a little tense. In practice, a much larger problem is caused by those cases where weapons are not taken away, and then criminal or unfortunate acts are committed. Whether it should be left to the courts or not, at some other time, but I think we should do everything we can to get the law started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78160	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. The first one's better to have a snake in the house than a weapon. So forgive me, Mr. Cain is equating the gun owners who keep that weapon in the house for shooting or personal protection with those who committed the crime, and although he knows that 90% of the people who committed the crime with weapons were illegal weapons possession. Next, he says the point of this law is security. The point of this law is to get as much money out of those people who own legal weapons as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78162	Second correction, honourable representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78163	I'm correcting my colleague Caine when, in fact, in the context of this final word, he's talking about war, other war weapons and things like that. So, Mr. Cain, read the introduction of this law, he is primarily wearing the P.Z.E. mark, this "E" means that he is in line with the European Union. Secondly, he says in his introduction that it is primarily based on a directive on the control and procurement of weapons prescribed by Council of the European Union No 91, 477EEC. So believe me in Europe, there are no remaining war weapons in the European Union and surely no proposals under this law will solve that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78164	Club HSLS, Honorable Representative Zlatko Kramarić 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78165	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Although fellow Rožić is quite right when he talks about this, the attribution of this Law that they have this European dimension, but it seems to me that we have to contextoise things, I don't think either of us can actually escape from the fact that 15 years ago we were faced with aggression, with a state of war, and that is exactly how this situation created this context which we are now talking about, regardless of these recommendations coming from the European Union. Open every actually black chronicle. Then you will really be able to see that this one large amount of unregistered weapons is actually the cause of these evils that we can read. I came from a city which, em has suffered and was the largest Croatian city that has constantly suffered aggression for over a year and almost 7 years has in some way lasted this state of war or peace, the process of peaceful reintegration. And the case happened when, in fact, out of good wishes and intent, the weapon that suddenly appeared was actually uncontrollably trying to get it to the citizens of one 'let's say a decent civic and cultural way to motivate them to return, so there was no human casualties there in 2001 if I didn't cheat. And shortly after that, just one of the citizens of the city of Osijek had solved some of his family problems shot and hit a boy who was neither guilty nor obliged in that place. And these are the facts that we almost daily in the black chronicle can read that children of 10 and less years of age find some bomb, some weapon, and then play with it, and then there's an accident that's exactly the result of this little happy situation that I'm saying is caused by the fact that we're in '91, '92. were at war. And what actually happens to me as a man who comes in and out of this academic world is missing a more serious social psychological study that would sort of explain the motivation of why people still agree with it even though the war has long been behind us to hold their weapons and that in those few, as much as there was 10th and more action "Goodbye to weapons", "get your weapons" still don't actually do it and thus create what they do in those good novels if a gun appeared in the story then at the end of the novel would have to go off and kill someone. I'm telling us that almost every day. I think I have to say this from the position of a radical pacifist, I'm actually running away from weapons even though I have an understanding of hunters and those people who know how to deal with weapons and speak as liberals and that all our legal texts must be uniform and that no one has the discretionary right to interpret legal parameters. And the same thing here would be one more restrictive approach precisely because we need to be aware that this context is from the beginning of the '90s. years actually caused a whole series of additional problems that we face every day. So, you live in a country where I say we believe in the word of colleague Cain that 81 cases of explosives being planted. It actually shows that life has become quite cheap and that obviously this situation that is, this context of '91. He created suitable ground for the illegal weapons market, which again, I say, produces a whole series of additional accidents. That's why we're gonna get this law passed as soon as possible. There are, however, these amendments that could do it in these details, in some of these awkwardnesses, even in literal translations to fix it because it's possible. But I think the law that would have just gone to try to really motivate the citizens to return that weapon as soon as possible, because that, like counterpart Ruža Tomcic, says over 90% of the murders that are committed, they are committed with illegal weapons. This shows that this gray zone is still potentially dangerous for the safety of our citizens and the HSLS club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78166	For the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78167	My colleagues and colleagues! Well, I don't know, if you were to ask someone from an expert or a gun lover how many types of weapons they'd tell you by tens, hundreds of species and subtypes. If you ask me how many types of weapons there are, I'm telling you they only have two types of weapons. They're illegal and legal weapons. And that's actually the space the legislator should take care of. If we assume that there are two extremes of regulation of arms issues and they look like this to you. The state may prescribe that all weapons are therefore illegal. That citizens can't own weapons on any basis. On the other hand, it can say that every weapon is legal and that it can simply be obtained in a store with a ID card and that you do not need any document. Normally, neither of the other solutions are we all aware of that is not good. However, this bill also does not deal with and treat Croatia's fundamental problem, the Croatian society in relation to weapons. Definitely this law does not regulate the important area that determines the safety and issue of weapons in Croatian society. It's just a reference, de facto to legal weapons. And just in a certain way that I have nothing against, in fact, in a certain way, to support the control of but controlled weapons. De facto in such a way avoids and does not want to deal with the key Croatian problem, which is therefore illegal weapons. That I don't elaborate again now, so it's robbery, murder, suicide, that it's mostly in the vast majority of cases with illegal weapons. I think the time has come and this was exactly the opportunity to put the accent on that illegal weapon with this law. I understand that certain provisions of this law need to be aligned with some European criteria, etc. But we have one specificity that the vast majority of European Union countries do not have. And that's a big percentage of illegal weapons in citizens. Well, that's what we heard here in this assembly that some of us know who has and what kind of illegal weapon he has. So, I think there was a big space. I'll repeat two key things for me. We need to motivate people to either legalize or return illegal weapons. There are two ways. These are criminal provisions and these motivated, stimulating provisions that should be. I reiterate that it is not good to say it is and a slightly more significant criminal offence in traffic is severely punished than illegal weapons possession. So if you go through the red, full tape, you'll get more punishment than if you have an illegal gun. Last time I mentioned the same thing, if a young man finds himself with some easy drug for his own purposes, he'll be more likely to be sanctioned than he who has an illegal weapon. It seems to me personally that this law cannot be fixed but two important things could be done, and this is the following, that those 13 million who will be gathered on the basis of these new solutions from this law are directed towards purchase, thus stimulating the return of illegal weapons. What does that mean? This means that all those who intend to return illegal weapons will be financially stimulated, but all these provisions must in some way be time-limited and I think that there is a shortage in this law because this possibility of legalising is actually going on indefinitely. For this reason, we at the SDP club will not be able to vote in favour of this law and I believe that the motioner will accept a series of appeals sent here by most clubs and advocates to try to use time and make this law more quality or more appropriate to Croatia's reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78168	Thank you. Honorable representative Zeljko Pecek for the club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78169	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When I read this Arms Act, I actually believe that we are looking for the culprit for such a bad situation in Croatia, which is also caused by the poor use of weapons, and this is like an alibi for a policy where in fact the greatest culprit for such a situation should be the legal owner of the weapon. It also reminds me of our famous road safety law, which has been waiting for a third year to discuss in Parliament because we know that 95% of traffic accidents died, the damages are caused by drivers. A good example this year is unfortunately a bad example where 11 people were killed at unprotected spring crossings. They're guilty because they didn't see a train driving more than 80 kilometers an hour through the fog. But is it someone's fault there's no wrinkle at that crossing? And if it were a mess and there was no guilt, there wouldn't be any deaths, there wouldn't be any damage. And is it someone's fault that we didn't build a mustache in Croatia this year? It probably is. However, if we had managed to solve this, there would be no guilty party, no dead, no harm done. Also through the law, the famous has been going through 0.0 for three years, and particularly young drivers are being accused. They're one of the main culprits.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78170	My colleague, please, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78171	Now I'm going to make a connection. Because these young drivers are completely and logically inexperienced and cannot respond in time to road tracks, cannot respond to damages, bad banks and it is absolutely certain to suffer. They suffer because we don't invest enough in the safety of road traffic as we also don't invest enough in this problem called weapons legally and especially illegally. Together with one law and another, it's that one law deals with the police, and it's common to one law and another that 95% of the traffic people are guilty and 90% here are guilty of illegal weapons. In this law, however, we are not dealing with enough illegal weapons. We've been working too hard on legal weapons. Apparently, they were killed, wounded by illegal weapons, obviously, and also by robbery. This is how it's gonna be the hunters, the shooters, and those who have the trophy weapon, they're gonna have to go check every five years. If it gets sick in the sixth year then it will probably not reflect negatively on these bad trends that we have in Croatia. However, whether there is one quality data networking in the police, perhaps between the court and the police for individuals who "do" domestic violence, drunk driving multiple times, which disturbs public order and peace, or even if they publicly threaten to kill someone with a weapon. Well, we could also read such cases in public. So we should, in any case, be more efficient, we should also think about these excessive powers of police where there are too little rights in there and too little justice, especially when we take away weapons. They wouldn't want the culprit to always be the legal owner of the weapon, they wouldn't want us to get a lot more administration through this law and a lot more costs for legal gun owners who would charge the budget without saying that it would have other negative consequences on lost hours and so forth. My question when I work parallel between the Law on Road Safety and the Law on Weapons will someone answer if it helps us to make this law ineffective, or only through this proposal are we trying to wash our hands because we are aware that in Croatia too many are killed and injured by weapons and the guilty are obviously in this law and in the rules that should happen behind it are the legal owners of weapons. Therefore, unless the applicant accepts a number of amendments proposed by the HSS club, we will not be able to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78172	Thank you. The HSP club is a respected representative of Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78173	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Secretary of State! The Proposer claims in this law that since the adoption of this Arms Act, the intention has been, among other things, to quote, the pursuit of greater control over illegal weapons in the possession of citizens, then the registration of weapons without the established origin of the so-called. legalisation or takeover of weapons which cannot be legalised and which poses a threat to the owner himself or his or her closer environment, family, neighbors and the like. Indeed, it is commendable and certainly to support the proposal's intention and intention. However, in the text below, we find that many of the provisions of this law, or the proposal for this law, are subject to the Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons prescribed by the Council of the European Union. Almost one page of the introduction of ladies and gentlemen is filled with words and sentences used in judicial and criminal operations such as: arms smuggling, increased crime, illegal possession of various explosive assets, criminal groups, organised crime, illegal production, procurement and sales of illegal weapons and the like. Also mentioned is the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, which was joined by our country. In other words, it might be easy to understand that we are actually fighting all of this or we want to fight it so that we will put pressure on the legal owners of firearms. So also against crime, organised crime, criminal groups and everything else, etc. Of course such an explanation would be ridiculous if it weren't tragic. Surely, illegal weapons and crime will not be solved by a technical review of the legal weapons or perhaps some other administrative measures proposed here for better control of legal weapons. Therefore, many firearms owners believe that the state actually needs money for an increased administration and therefore invents accusations that will not prevent any existing criminality or increase the security of citizens. On the contrary, it will only lead to the fact that many gun owners in the dilemma or in objective reality to get rid of the legal weapon as soon as possible because it is a huge burden for their home budget, that it will actually lead them to get rid of that legal weapon as soon as possible, either to give it away or to destroy it, or to stimulate them to keep only what they illegally own. In particular, this law will affect hunters, archers, and collectors. So, if we take it to be quite explicit on behalf of the club, if we take an example of Mr. Manulić's grandson, it's cheaper to have illegal weapons under the seat of a car because he has already paid 10,000 kunas in total twice now than to pay these new charges to own the weapon legally. Of course we can't agree with such a bill. We have like a club somewhere around the 57th Amendment that we've given up on because it would completely change this law. We therefore advocate that the law goes into the third reading, that the Proposer accepts all these remarks or most of these remarks that can be accepted under this law, which are presented in the debate and then after the third reading we adopt the law. This is how the HSP Club cannot support and will not support such a law because it really speaks about problems and crime and illegal weapons and everything else but it is trying to solve the pressure on legal owners who legally own weapons and it is certainly not only ridiculous but also completely illogical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78174	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78175	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have really listened very carefully to this debate on Friday and today with what I can say that today may have been a few questions, remarks that really deserve attention and that I have been thinking about all this time trying to put into context and the whole of the law, but also the intentions that the legislator or the MUP as a proposer wanted to achieve by proposing the adoption of this law. I think that first of all, we should just point out that this fear does not stand that this law, or that the basic purpose of this law, was to impose new burdens on the owners of legal weapons. I think Mr. Ledinsky said that he was surprised that no one in the Hunting Union was here in front of the Parliament and shared proposals for amendments and leaflets. It wasn't because we had talks with the Hunting Union and adopted most of their proposals on this bill just because they wouldn't make it difficult for hunters to hold, carry and use weapons. We also held talks with the Croatian Shooter's Union, with the same purpose and purpose, so as not to make it impossible for the shooters to carry, carry and use weapons because we know that hunters and sports shooters are the best gun holders and that they never cause problems with those weapons. This is precisely why there were no fliers of members of the Hunting Union and of the Hunters or of the Croatian Shooting Union, because there is no purpose for us to make it impossible to hold and carry arms to people who are responsible, serious and who never commit the most serious crimes against him. We in the MUP have no illusions that we can change the situation overnight so that there is no longer the abuse of firearms and other types of weapons in particular in committing the most serious crimes and we are absolutely clear that we need to change the climate and create a climate of personal responsibility as well as professional responsibilities of institutions, doctors and justice. I'll tell you one case that's been a little absurd but that's actually talking about the complexity of the case. There were a couple of poachers. One of them was somehow hosting these poachers. He was unarmed. They were caught. These other two who were from another area were shot and killed by a deer savage. The court condemned this host in a misdemeanor procedure and gave me a protective measure of weapons confiscation. Those who fired and committed a crime were not taken from them. We have cases that, despite our legal obligation, doctors do not inform us of changes in the health status of gun owners, and unfortunately, one of them was the one who committed the serious crime of triple murder several years ago. So I repeat again to us it is clear that we need to change the climate of the social and create a climate of personal responsibility for the owner and the holder of the weapons. But also create a climate of professional responsibility for all those institutions who can in any way contribute to the increased security of this problem of weapons abuse. About this fear that this law will allow the arbitration of police who will have or will not have weapons, you are witnessing that in all the abuses and serious crimes committed by firearms, the first question is, why does this person have a responsibility? The police have absolutely the greatest responsibility and the police do not want to escape the prevention of serious crimes especially with firearms killings. I absolutely agree with you that the biggest problem is just unregistered illegal weapons, which are mostly committed to the most serious crimes. However, some MPs themselves have said that several crimes and legal weapons have been committed recently. And to finish, the aim of proposing this law to the MUP was not to cross people's weapons possession. To those people who are responsible for holding arms, to those who use these weapons either for hunting or for the purpose of sports shooting, it is absolutely not the aim of making it difficult for them to obtain, hold, carry and use weapons. Our goal is also that as many weapons as possible are registered because we are absolutely aware that the only registered weapon is the greatest guarantee that there will be at least abuse and serious crimes with it. And we also aim at these articles of the Law on Health Checks that weapons are primarily held by a healthy and responsible person. It was not the goal of introducing or shortening the period of validity of a medical certificate from 10 to 5 years to impose other imposes on persons, but precisely because we consider it to be too serious a means to create truly terrible crimes for them to be countries of a healthy person. And in the end, on behalf of the motionors, I can say that we are going to discuss all these remarks at the Minister's College today or tomorrow, all of this that has been highlighted in the debate, and I can announce that there is even the possibility of even sending the law to the third reading. But in any case, part of these remarks will either be installed through the amendment clubs of MPs or the amendment of the Government because in this debate today, I have indeed realized that there is room to improve this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78176	Thank you. There's room for a third reading. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78177	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I have to correct the incorrect assumption. It's about Mr. Secretary of State saying there were no fliers, hunters and shooters. There were no flyers because we all got memos. This time they were a little smarter, and in time they warned us about many things. And I really agree with you, and I'm also correcting it, and it's incorrectly alleged that the court practice that you've been talking about yourself is really such that once a gunman who has 20 pieces of various caliber weapons who's been a sportsman for 10 years will be more expensive to hold those 20 pieces of weapons than Mr. Manolic's grandson who's probably already obtained a third piece of illegal weapon, two of them have been taken from him so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-24-0.u78178	I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Arms Act. In accordance with the proposals of the HSP and HSS Representatives Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The final proposal of the Arms Act will be carried out on the third reading." Who's in? The result? I find that from 83 votes to six abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
