ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u68102	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, first reading of P.Z. No. 459 You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the Proposer want a representative? Mr. Zeljko Ledinsky, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u68103	I'm withdrawing the law from the procedure on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u68104	He's withdrawing the gentleman in the name of the motion law from the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u68105	Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, Supplements to the Act on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry. The HSS repatriated club has withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda - Final proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law, second reading of the P.Z. No. 418; Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Justice. State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Snjezana Bagic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70058	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The bankruptcy law may be assessed as an economic law which, in a procedural sense, regulates the course of bankruptcy proceedings at the time of the court proceedings. Like all procedural laws, he strives to be as efficient, efficient as possible and to contribute to the acceleration of the bankruptcy process. The fact is, we've been since '96. the years when the bankruptcy law was passed they even changed this law four times. The last changes were in 2003. These 2003 changes, which also aimed at simplifying and speeding up the process. However, at least in some parts the reverse effect has been achieved. For example, in particular in the section relating to the rights of creditors relating to payment orders, in particular the provision of Article 193(2) relating to the decision on the transfer of money to creditors. This provision has caused major problems in the litigation that these creditors have taken on the basis of this provision. Some institutes have also been introduced that have never been brought into practice. It is simply obvious in our terms, the economic conditions are not suitable ways to resolve the assets of a debtor such as the sale of the debtor's assets as a whole. In addition, as regards enforcement procedures, forced collection in the part where it is applied to bankruptcy, the law prescribed provisions and institutes contrary to the Implementing Law which, of course, caused difficulties in practice, doubtful interpretations and delayed the procedure. The aim of these amendments and additions is therefore the same as previous changes and additions, which is to establish better efficiency of the process, more socially acceptable solutions regarding the intention of workers and increased control of the work of bankruptcy managers. I will, in a few examples, try to tell the newspaper of this law how this government means to achieve these changes and additions to the bankruptcy law. Therefore, it is important to point out some of the differences proposed by this law in order to contribute to the establishment of simpler and more functional bankruptcy procedures. Therefore, the first one of the changes proposed is to simplify the assumption of inability to pay debtors for the purpose of facilitating, proving, the existence of this bankruptcy. Thus far, insolvency has been difficult to establish as a bankruptcy because the insolvency assessment depends on whether at least one-fifth of the claims received have been settled from the debtor's account for a longer period of more than 2 months. It is now proposed that the debtor be able to make payments from any account for more than 60 days, so the insolvency period for more than 60 days is a sufficient bankruptcy reason. More socially acceptable solutions to the peace of workers are also proposed. How and why? In fact, even so far, workers but only with part of their labour-based search were in the first higher payout order but only up to one third of the pay of the severance payment. It is now proposed that the worker, with full demand from the working relationship in gross, enter into the priority order of payment in the bankruptcy procedure. Furthermore, it is proposed to equalise all credentials in the application obligation, i.e. notification of claims, which will be the basis for drawing up a table on bankruptcy obligations and better transparency, and to allow creditors to review their obligations and make legal decisions on money. Namely, until now exclusive and distinct religious groups such as those who do not actually find themselves from the source of the bankruptcy were not obliged to report their claims. This seemed to be a good legal solution, but in practice it really creates problems because it did not really know how much the total assets of this creditor could and could not otherwise go into bankruptcy and cause, so that it actually caused unnecessary disputes, litigation and delayed the process of determining the assets of the creditor. Now they are obliged to inform of these rights to the bankruptcy manager. In addition, these amendments and additions make it impossible for distinct believers to fail to exercise their right to settle in the executive procedure. In fact, they evaluated, calculated that this was more favourable for them in the bankruptcy process, and thus actually converted courts into their own institutions for the sale of assets to which they had the right to separate settlements. So it is now proposed to launch an exercise in order to exercise the right to settle from an insurance case, and only if that performance has failed can it be proposed by the applicant, the believer, the exclusive or decisive person in the bankruptcy proceedings. It is further proposed to establish greater control over the work of bankruptcy managers and their equalisation with regard to the conditions of conduct and duty. You already know from the draft law in the first reading that the general condition is that they have passed the exam and must be on a list that should be established by the Ministry of Justice. Namely, the biggest difficulties and so far, the discussions have shown even amendments and amendments to the laws so far where difficulties in those who have entered the place of administration and the entire popular management of the company that has already been in difficulty is because it has come into bankruptcy. And they're bankruptcy managers. So they are asked for special knowledge, sometimes attributed to them and a great burden sometimes also to abuse of a position. So our task is to ensure that those persons we propose for bankruptcy managers are persons who by their expertise, knowledge, professional ethics will ensure that such opportunities are reduced, removed or reduced to a minimum level. So far, bankruptcy managers could have been persons, members of a public company with an expert examination under the applicable law. Therefore, those who are in that company or lawyers who did not have to have a professional examination. This solution, however, has proved rather impractical and bad because it is simply not possible to determine and have more managers so that they can be deployed. I have complaints that we have too many bankruptcy managers leading too many bankruptcys. Therefore, it is proposed to extend the circle so that persons with high expertise, the necessary knowledge, who pass a professional examination with the Ministry of Justice and that those persons can then be bankruptcy managers so that they can then be included in the list of the Ministry of Justice. I must say here that the Ministry of Justice does not have any volunteerism or authority or that the executive power interferes with the judicial authority simply includes all those who, on that list, include all those who passed the exam that is subject to independent experts from the judiciary, the economy and other areas in front of the Ministry of Justice. It is also proposed that these bankruptcy managers may conduct a limited number of bankruptcy procedures, not only in number but in the value of assets that are in bankruptcy proceedings. What is important in order to successfully conduct the bankruptcy procedure is also better information for all, primarily creditors and other interested persons in the process. So now court solutions will be published via the Internet. Until now, only some solutions have been published, and now all solutions will be published. So this will contribute to transparency, especially since data from court registers are now networked between individual trade courts. And as you know from the latest amendments to the Executive Act, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is leading a special eyewitness to all real estate and movables worth more than 50,000 kuna. It will also contribute to greater legal certainty with regard to the identification of the debtor, and this is due to the fact that the information on his home registration number is now to be provided. The deadlines of the previous procedure shall also be adjusted... for distribution and resolution by appeal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, it has not been in the previous procedure, therefore, in a procedure which generally lays down the conditions for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, so the procedure could have been practically unlimited. The deadlines are now being introduced to determine the phases that may take place, individual phases of the procedure and finally complete the previous procedure. As for the continuation of litigation. The previous examination of the bankruptcy proceedings has also not been a time-limit for those proceedings. And that's why, in practice, the D.A.'s office is continuing the lawsuit on the reported... so these believers were in a more favourable position than those who weren't with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the debtors, since these latters were obliged within the time limit set in the ruling of the judge to open a case in the event of a dispute, under the threat of losing the right to conduct a case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in order to remove this kind of use by means of such means and to mean direct cause, delaying proceedings, all creditors are set a time limit of 8 days for the initiation or continuation of litigation, which we believe will significantly speed up the bankruptcy process itself. Also, speaking of deadlines, so far there has been no deadline for a bankruptcy plan, if resuscitated, the possibility of resuscitating the company. It's now a six-month deadline to draw up a plan. The deadline shall be calculated from the date of the decision to join the draft plan. As for the decision on non-refundable items so far, non-refundable mass could be transferred to creditors, but unfortunately these were mainly cases of litigation or heavily cashed items. And now it's proposed to be able to pass on what's only, just what's really invaluable, so there's no market value like... and so on, and everything else has to be cashed in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is also proposed to reduce the time limit within which the bankruptcy should be cashed so that the deadline is now reduced to one and a half years, and according to the above, the deadline for setting the final hearing should be set no later than one and a half days from the day of the reporting hearing. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this seems to me to be the most important thing that is proposed by amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law in his second reading. The applicant noted a series of remarks made during the assembly, discussions on individual committees and during the parliamentary debate in order to further improve the text and contribute to what is the objective, which is a functional bankruptcy process. So, for example, it was accepted that the parliamentary representatives of the Committee on Legislatives were asked to comment on the limitation of bankruptcy by one manager, which I had already explained earlier. So the property is tied to a special regulation. It is also accepted that the comments of parliamentary representatives relating to the claim of workers, that a more favourable solution already contained in the earlier provision of Article 173(2), it relates to Article 75. The final draft law has been proposed and a solution has been proposed to draw up a list of all requests by workers and former employees of debtors who have reached the opening of bankruptcy by regulations. It was also accepted, among other things, the observations of the Legislative Committee, and instead of limiting the value of the case of litigation for bankruptcy proceedings, it was decided that the value of the subject matter should be accounted for in accordance with the rules of the Law on the litigation procedure. It also accepted the comments of some parliamentary MPs and the assessment was also related to the takeover of legal property in the area relating to financial institutions, the harmonisation that this segment is quite demanding, that it requires a lot of harmonisation and change, and a solution has been proposed, which will regulate bankruptcy against banks and financial institutions by a special regulation, so this part is now not contained in this final draft of the law. Some of the proposals, unfortunately, could not be accepted. For example, proposals for not being able to hold anyone against whom criminal charges have been filed and criminal proceedings initiated, as well as the constitutional category of presumption of innocence until someone has been tried by law, but there is a provision that no one against whom he is legally tried for the criminal offences of payment traffic and similar offences can be appointed. The promoter also, as I have already said, left a provision that, even in the future, even now, the future Ministry of Justice draws up a list of bankruptcy managers, those who passed, those who passed the exam without being the Supreme Court, assessing that it does not actually affect independence or their work in any way. And the promoter, like I said, has cut some deadlines. We've re-examined them. The deadlines aren't unrealistic. We all advocate to speed up procedures and therefore are carefully in line with those who apply this law. Of course, I can't accept all the remarks that have been accepted on this occasion... Because it would take too long. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70059	Thank you. The Justice Committee, a respected representative, President Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70060	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. At the 43rd session held on 5 July 2006, the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the President of the Croatian Parliament on 29 June 2006. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the proposing representative referred to the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, and it is suggested to the proposing representative that, in addition to the reasons for the final proposal, the reasons why he respected the Croatian National Bank's remarks that the bankruptcy of financial institutions is normised by a special regulation, thereby removing the new Chapter X and Articles 335a to 335.d from the draft final proposal, hence the bankruptcy of banks. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice proposed, with 6 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70061	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70062	Mr. President, State Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. We have before us the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Law and the first thing I want to say, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this bill. This law was already a very correct law in the first reading, which offered a number of solutions that would certainly reflect on the improvement and efficiency of the bankruptcy process, and in the second reading we see a number of objections from our parliamentary committees and fellow MPs, so that in this second reading the law is even better than it was. When we mention bankruptcy, it certainly opens up very unpleasant memories and bankruptcy we really associate with the workless remains of a number of people with the collapse of a number of companies, and it is simply one fact that we have to look at and which is actually past and all transition countries. Some even established specialised courts dealing exclusively with bankruptcy as Hungary, some set up departments in bankruptcy courts and indeed basic transitional problems due to a large number of bankruptcys were the transition from one form to one way of the economy, meaning the state economy in market form, and there were many economic operators in that transition who could not respond to the new requirements. The former companies did not rest on economic principles, the number of employees did not meet the economic needs, but it was actually the result of an agreed economy, an agreed economy. Privatisation and conversion we also saw is burdened by the many bad procedures that have been going on. All of this together led to a huge, huge wave of bankruptcy in which many companies had failed, and we had a bankruptcy law that actually allowed for a long-term bankruptcy management, one endless bankruptcy management in which these assets were actually to be built and the new economic operators were to be raised, the property was very often fragmented and very often managed unwittingly. It's just facts. However, I am sorry that there may not be a number data report on how many bankruptcys have been opened, at what time, how many have been closed, how many have been completed because it seems to me that we have passed that wave and that our economy is slowly entering a more peaceful water, and we saw it in fact yesterday in the changes and addition of our budget because we see that the macroeconomic indicators of this country are really very correct and that almost all macroeconomic indicators are positive. So it would be convenient to see maybe that, because it seems to me that that huge wave of bankruptcy is behind us and that we are slowly entering a more peaceful period. Here, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports a number of, indeed, many good solutions that will certainly contribute to a more efficient bankruptcy process, one faster conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, as the secretary of state has indeed listed a whole series here. In any case, we also welcome the fact that workers will now be much better protected in bankruptcy because in this privileged class of search only a part of them will be recognised but those claims will be fully recognised. We also support the solution to go, that the rest in this is now being drawn up by the bankruptcy manager, not the employees themselves. In addition, we also see our proposal for the club in the first reading was to in some way try to limit the fact that bankruptcy managers are leading a large number of bankruptcys which we see here are given the possibility of being resolved by bankruptcy managers who conduct more than three bankruptcy proceedings that exceed the value of 2 million kuna and in which the business of a bankruptcy entity continues. In any case, it's a good newspaper, although looking at the logic of things, there shouldn't have been a problem either, because the logic of things imposes that one man can't conduct 20 or 30 bankruptcy proceedings, but unfortunately, in practice, we've had it, and now here we have one legal option that regulates it. The procedures are being accelerated, this previous bankruptcy procedure which examines the reasons for the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings should not last longer than three months. The cashing of the bankruptcy must be completed in a year and a half. The bankruptcy plan must be made in six months. The appeal deadline, the legal remedy means eight days. That complaint must be resolved within 60 days. These are all certain innovations in this law that will undoubtedly lead to a better conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. The bankruptcy managers see the ministry establishing them in the form of a list which is an administrative act so that it is even more transparent than it was. It comes back that everyone has to take that expert exam for the bankruptcy manager that has not been so far, and it will certainly contribute to the quality of those people who lead the bankruptcy process. But I have to say one other thing. The law is the law. This law I would have said was and without these improvements which are undoubtedly good, it has so far provided a quality framework in which bankruptcy could be conducted. However, the big problem of our bankruptcy, I also talked about it at first reading, is the timing or time of opening bankruptcy proceedings. If we were to run one analysis, then we would have come to the conclusion that most of our bankruptcy proceedings were open far from this legal deadline that was prescribed here, which is six months from insolvency or insufficiency. And after the company was blocked 3, 4, and even 5 or more years only then came and only then did someone submit a request or a proposal to open a bankruptcy procedure. What happened in that period, I don't think a man should be too imaginative. The property was decommissioned, estranged on different sides, and when the bankruptcy proceedings were opened, no one could rest there anymore. Not the workers, not the religious, not the state, not our pension and health funds. Everyone in such a bankruptcy process remained short-sleeved. And what doesn't have too much to do directly with this law is that we need to run all those mechanisms that enable and force the entities on that economic market to open up bankruptcy in time. For if bankruptcy is opened in time then there is also the possibility that this property may be charged more correctly, sold, that the believers may rest. To create and raise some new companies on this property, some new trading entities that will re-employ those people who have lost their jobs for bankruptcy. It's like when a man is sick and gets in time for a doctor, this one in time to diagnose him, determine his therapy, and then he has a chance to heal. If he came too late, unfortunately there's no chance. We can also withdraw such a combination in the bankruptcy law. That's why we have built-in and criminal provisions against the administration that didn't open bankruptcy proceedings in time. We have built-in and protected and certain privileged provisions in relation to employees who are exempt from paying taxes and costs when they launch the proposal to open a bankruptcy procedure. However, people are very often forced to work in companies without pay for some sort of bonuses on some products they get, so they are not interested. They say if the bankruptcy opens, we'll go even worse than we're going through right now. But it's not like that. But also our country that has data, our funds, pension, health care, when it sees that there's an entity that doesn't pay pension tax, which doesn't pay everything that needs to be paid, when it's registered, and our country needs to run a bankruptcy mechanism because then it's going to earn what it needs to earn. So one is the law, one is the practice. Our perception of bankruptcy is terribly bad. The bankruptcy is linked to failure, hopelessness, darkness, and in the outside, in developed countries, in developed democracies, the interest of opening up bankruptcy is not only a bankruptcy believer but also a bankruptcy debtor. We need to change perception, we need to change our awareness of bankruptcy and we need to use bankruptcy and even as an instrument of business policy. I try to combine it sometimes like we do when we do, we go on a hike, and now that rise is pretty steep, and on a particular section we don't have air anymore, it's hard for us. In that story, let's go look for some side road that we're gonna take a little rest and come back, go back to the other one. It's the same in bankruptcy. If the bankruptcy is open in time, if the creditor himself determines how much his debt is, if he himself has a specific programme to resolve it in his interest to open up the bankruptcy because the opening of the bankruptcy changes his legal situation. He gets a new giro account, he has the ability to break contracts that are concluded, he has many benefits that are, the course of legal tight interest stops, the executions are interrupted, the litigation is interrupted, he is allowed to return to that normal business path. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports all these amendments proposed by this Law. We believe that they will undoubtedly lead to a faster and better quality bankruptcy process. The bankruptcy procedure will be more transparent on this. We particularly support the fact that the bankruptcy procedure re-recognises the full claims of employees. Which will continue to be composed by the bankruptcy manager. We especially support that after these changes, we believe there will be no one "wunder" the bankruptcy managers who will conduct 20 or 30 bankruptcy proceedings. But what is, we need to change one culture of business, one financial culture in business and change complete bankruptcy, perception of bankruptcy. Because bankruptcy, it doesn't have to be the end, it doesn't have to be the end. The bankruptcy may actually be a possibility for a new beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70063	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70064	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Croatian Retired Party Club assesses this Final Proposal of the Banking Law as good and will vote for this Final Proposal, which does not mean that it could not have been better. Which does not mean that he has no shortcomings in our opinion, which does not mean that we are not left with the obligation to continuously improve the insolvency law and introduce new institutes in line with the economic and internal development of this society. At first, I will say a few of the shortcomings that we have noticed about this Law, and then I will say the good things that really need to be highlighted and which the billmaker has really respected. First, it is a shame that we do not have the opinion of the Economic and Social Council since Croatia has institutionalised social dialogue. And it should not have been a problem for the Economic and Social Council to officially be made public through the Social Partnership Office where I didn't think it was necessary for the Economic and Social Council to be formally aware of this Law in terms of how much the objections of the social partners have been incorporated and what is finally the view that it remains for some future period. Secondly, this law still has no impact on ending disputes with the state. But that's not the problem with the law. The problem is, in some ways, the braking of state institutions. I have a case of TECOP bankruptcy, and I know it very well because I was personally involved in this bankruptcy, on the part of the workers, where it took 14 months to launch bankruptcy with the obvious situation that there was no, that there was no production and payment of workers. However, it was done in 2000. Only this month is due to take place at the trade court in Pazin is the hearing for the request of the company from the ministry. Although it is said that all open court disputes, open litigation has to be transferred to the Trade Court and continues to lead to the Trade Court after the bankruptcy proceedings have been launched, it takes a full 5 years. I think, that there is also a lack of an institute of state settlements in such situations and that, for these reasons, bankruptcy proceedings cannot be completed in time or in that law provided for. Furthermore, this law is not penalizing enough because of the non-starting of the bankruptcy process, there are some shifts for the better, but for us it is still insufficient. And what we can also estimate, the bankruptcy law is, it is aimed at the dominant protection of the interests of the credentials, not the continuation of production. I understand that, it's quite the opposite of what we had in the past social order in the former state where the protection of the debtor was dominant and it was the dominant protection of the continuation of production. Here it is quite the opposite, here is the dominant protection of creditors, but in the interest of employment and employment, I think other institutes should also be developed in the coming period, so also pre-profit agreements and the reconstruction of society and the continuation of the redesign of the company and the continuation of production in terms of retaining jobs. That's our opinion, and I'm saying there's no major shift. The bankruptcy law is not what it is, and it is dominantly indeed aimed at protecting the credentials, although through the institutions of debt accession, it can be said that the problem that I have raised can be solved even though through the bankruptcy plan the problem of continuing production and reconstruction can be solved, but we believe that there is not enough indication of the foundation of the Croatian state as a social state and the state of work towards continuing production and retaining jobs. Of course, we are of the opinion that insolvent law should be constantly improved and upgraded, and without constantly changing the fundamental provisions. Once these basic definitions are determined, they should not be constantly changed as was the case in previous periods. One thing that also bothers us, exactly my colleague Bošnjakovic earlier said that workers in the bankruptcy process, i.e. when giving the Trade Court to launch bankruptcy, were exempt from any duties, but one and the other fact that workers when they start bankruptcy must be questioned for reasons of bankruptcy. This is a complete imbalance compared to other believers, in particular the state. When the state initiates bankruptcy, i.e. the state institutions do not question it, we can also get politically managed bankruptcys. What is to be said in addition, I end up with shortcomings, what is to be said in accordance with this Act is certain that the working group that has gathered to prepare this Final Proposal of the Law has set realistically possible goals which are intended to be achieved by bankruptcy law and that this is not a wish list, but that this is essentially an embedded matter which is now realistic and which is some kind of broader economic interest. It is also noticeable in the final proposal of the Law that in some way positive and negative effects of the implementation of the bankruptcy law so far have been analysed, and this proposal, which I think has been very well done, gives God that all proposals for the law are so thoroughly prepared. It is apparent that the working group has realistically seen objective and subjective causes of non-application, as well as possible inapplicability of certain provisions of bankruptcy laws and that it is noticeable that these non-applicability of the document is corrected. It is also important to point out that the deadlines are not exclusive but respect reality. They are fixed, but there is always if something happens that deadline can be extended. It is also a good general nomotechnical approach that is in line with European legislation, which is to avoid the constant reference to the "National Journals" and the exact names of the law, rather than to the legislation, so on litigation, enforcement legislation and thus is called to other laws, and this Law is often touched by the Implementing Law and the Law on the Procedural Procedure, and I think this is a good no-technical approach. Also, newspapers make written decisions and therefore calls, decisions, conclusions of the Commercial Courts are published on the court's website. It is our desire to establish this as soon as possible in all Trade Courts and that this level of communication in the business world that has become standard and it is good that this Law provides for such a level of communication with creditors and with all interested citizens, and also with the seventh force, so to the media. It is good that a certain time limit within which a second-degree council must be set according to a possible appeal, an appeal to initiate the procedure, is in place within 60 days. It also strengthens the liability of bankruptcy managers which has not been the case through public companies, which has not been reached by the old, or the now applicable law, which was amended in 2003. It is good to specify the reasons for the resolution of the bankruptcy manager in concrete cases and we have one very, very transparent list of bankruptcy managers that will be unique for all of Croatia. Of course, and I suppose that will be the case, that local trade courts will decide for members of the list that are from that area that no travel expenses are to be done needlessly. This Law better regulates, i.e. correcting what has been failed to do with past amendments to the bankruptcy law, which is to regulate the question of passing exams for the bankruptcy manager and was also resolved by a regulation whose validity has expired. Of course, there is a tendency to professionalise the duties of a bankruptcy manager and it is necessary for the bankruptcy manager to be appointed to a person who is on the list of bankruptcy managers who can only come to it because of possession of a certain quality and certain references. But also in this case, since the dominant role in bankruptcy is played by believers, it is about protecting them. Believers have the ability to appoint another person as a bankruptcy manager to assume certain qualifications and experiences if they consider that person to contribute to better conduct of bankruptcy proceedings or to better protect the interests of the creditors. But that's not the end of the story. And that bankruptcy judge has the last word. If such a procedure would result in the appointment of a bankruptcy administrator on a proposal by the believer, it would result in favouring any believer or making decisions at the expense of any believer, then the last word has a bankruptcy judge who can challenge such a proposal by the believer. This law in some way deletes the provisions on the representation of the credentials. Other laws have solved the problem of representation and indeed in the last four, five years one rule has been applied in commercial courts or at least to the public that the state of Croatia must be present in bankruptcy proceedings. It's just not true and it's not necessary. This is interpreted as a mandatory participation regulation although it did not stand anywhere. The number of members of the religious council and their compensation are also normalized. The fee is reduced, the fee is a circus as I calculated one average daily, which means possibly 200 kuna per session at cost. Furthermore, a good restriction on access to debt is a very good institute, but possible abuses have been established and certain restrictions have been set. It is certain that we are also pleased to bring this law into line with the Labour Act which is termological, so this law has been introduced by a worker instead of an employee who fits the normative arrangement in the basic, foundation of the Labour Law. And it is certainly acceptable for us in Croatia to have a pensioner's party, both of which are both able to accept that workers and former workers of the creditor's credit for the work relationship created by the day of opening the bankruptcy process become believers of the first more paid order in the gross amount of their demand, and this is extremely acceptable and good news for us. Furthermore, in Article 67, the other Contracting Party has no right to claim damages due to the premature termination of the employment relationship. This has been deleted for reasons why it cannot only apply to workers and we consider it a quality provision. So let me conclude, given that time is running out. The Croatian party of pensioners will firmly support this final bill, regardless of the fact that it is constantly needed to be improved, that it is becoming our permanent obligation to improve insolvency law but for this moment we are assessing this final proposal for a good and very acceptable law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70065	Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70066	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Well, the first thing I have to say right away is that the Croatian party club doesn't share that enthusiasm of the HDZ Club and the Retirement Club about the quality of this bankruptcy law. Now I will briefly repeat to you the remarks of the Croatian Party Club of Rights which I said when we had in the first reading of the text of the law. I said then there was a considerable number of objections and I put them in three groups. The first group of objections were so-called. a strategic nature, or principled nature. The second group of objections related to the general nature observations. And there are third observations of an individual nature. I can't say it wasn't adopted. Those objections were adopted which are not relevant, i.e. observations of a general nature and of a particular nature but of a strategic nature were not adopted. And what are the remarks of a strategic nature? Let's be aware and realistic. So far, the bankruptcy law has been in the function of converting and privatising or robbing, a robbery that was carried out through that institution called conversion and privatisation in the Croatian way. We know for a fact how this procedure went, the favored ones were bailing out the company, the company. They didn't pay anything to the state even though they had a sales contract where exactly the state of sale had to pay the price. Unfortunately, it's nothing. Then he pulled capital out of such a company, put that capital in his pocket and arranged a company in a bankruptcy situation, workers on the road, nothing to him, the state does anything. So, it's a very well-known scenario. Did this law respond to that scenario? He didn't answer. However, he continues to encourage the scenario because he says the main goal is to calm down the creditors. Here's what we have in Croatia as a believer. If that goal remains to calm the creditors, not to protect the state interests, not to protect the workers, because today they are full of both the SDP and everyone else about the protection of workers and we ourselves know what the Company Act was in 96, as was then adopted in 2003. And now we're talking again about a new bankruptcy law and the parole officer is being protected, he'll come to the front row of the settlement. But it's not just a matter of bankruptcy. It's just a calming of the credentials. The point is, it's in some normal environments where privatisation is done in a legitimate way, where the rule of law works. So it should be, the bankruptcy law belongs to a group of development laws if we're going to tell the truth, meaning development laws. So it's not about destroying a company. It's not meant for workers to end up on the road. It is not the goal of the one who has been favored, to rob yet to put money in his pocket, and it is not the goal of favouring monetary-banking institutions that this Final Proposal once again pleases. And that was the same thing, our observation of strategic nature because they have a special, special privileged status in terms of having a completely different exclusive way of settling their claims. And now these and such banking institutions, monetary institutions have also been in contact with those who robbed the state and in the part where they broke competition or created a monopoly on the market, the case of TDR, there are cases as many as you want, "Hope Dimic", the textile industry, whichever industry you want. And as they did the case, they also did the case "Name." So they worked so that their people or those who wanted to break competition had their people in banks or even put them in these companies. Then they came into a situation the way they are. They had to borrow from these banks those who were not Croatian or by name or by any other means. They were getting unfavourable loans. Normally they couldn't pay them off, case Name. And then you go to that part of the settlement through, the bank opens up this bankruptcy procedure and then the one standing in contact with the bank that was like "TDR" and all these other situations then buy that part of the stock from the banks and create a monopoly. They're creating a monopoly on the market. The workers ended up on the roads. They couldn't even settle for this part of their claim and everyone satisfied, under quotes. All satisfied and, look these are the meanings of large, crucial strategic remarks, principle remarks. If they are not satisfied with such an unsettled system, in a situation where a worker ends up on the road every day. When no one protects him, then we can't talk about that we've made an important step in all of this when it's still the main goal of calming down the creditors without trying to at least try to go to that part of the so-called. the pre-departure procedure, means an attempt to create opportunities and stabilise such a company. Try to keep your jobs. So it's automatically forgotten. And now look at one remark that was also quite important that I spoke on the Legislative Committee on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I was also speaking here, and this is the variant that can not be appointed as a person against whom the criminal proceedings have been opened. She can't be named. And now pay attention to the reasoning of the motionor, he says: "His constitutional rights are being said "to question." So we have the Law, the Law on civil servants and tenants, where it says that he cannot be against whom the criminal proceedings are initiated can't be accepted in a working relationship. We have the Law of Armed Forces where there is such a provision. And now imagine a man with 92 criminal charges Yaksha. [[What's his name?]] Not Marasovic but Jaksa Cvitanovic called "Cvik", be careful he could compete now. He worked at that lawyer's office, passed the exam, and he could become a bankruptcy judge. I mean, what kind of explanations are these? I don't think that's possible to me at all. As an argument similar to that, when I said that many bankruptcy proceedings in Croatia are in place to create monopolies or break up competition and then the promoter says it is not accepted because they will not enter and regulate the motives for which someone uses his law established rights. Very interesting answer. So who's being protected here? What, then, is the purpose of this bankruptcy process? I mean, there's still a huge number of objections that I'm going to make in an individual debate, but I'm still saying one of the fundamental remarks of the club was that the deadlines were set for the conduct of the bankruptcy proceedings were unrealistic because in practice there was almost no judicial procedure that was legally completed within three years without mentioning further time needed to collect from its debtor in the event of the success of the bankruptcy dispute with all legal options. So I did the assessment procedure if you had property it could take longer. So that's what this whole property is all about and everything else is about, and it's always a cover-up to try to hide something, and then we've done it nicely with the last draft of the Property Act that we've admitted to those who robbed it now that they have the right and that part that would belong to these companies, but that's what the circumstances are about. So I don't know what your goal was, but obviously from this reading means the goal is to again protect those who robbed the state, put the workers back in a disadvantage, again enable the banking, banking and monetary institutions to together with the "subport" on their behalf and for their account so-called. tycoon that they're destroying the competition again. That again you are not trying to implement that part of a real pre-determined where you will try to save jobs, where such a company, such a company will try to get on its feet. So these are large reasons, fundamental, principled, strategic where we cannot agree because we are not interested in what is clearly the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70067	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70068	Well, a colleague said that there, that the SDP is full of the mouth of the protection of workers, and that in 2003 it changed the bankruptcy law without taking account of it. It's simply incorrect. And I think everyone here should have a responsibility for the spoken word. In 2003, the Banking Act was amended according to the principle of bonocracy at the head of the concentration and the time limit. For the first time, the workers entered the first payment order. For the first time, the responsibility of the bankruptcy manager is introduced. For the first time in the World Bank, a huge amount was raised for technical assistance related to bankruptcy. The provision of Article 209 was thus violated because a colleague incorrectly stated in his debate that is, the diametric opposite of what has been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70069	This is the correcting of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70070	Both.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70071	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70072	Dear Mr. President, an esteemed colleague has injured Article 209 because she has abused the Institute of Correction of an incorrect allegation. I said exactly that in 2003, the coalition government passed a law that totally ruined workers. I wish you'd fixed me. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70073	Order! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70074	But this isn't what I'm talking about. This is not what I'm talking about. And now I see that's true what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70075	It is not a matter of fellow Kovacevic's injury to the Rules of Procedure because Agent Anticevic responded to your claim holding it incorrectly that the SDP's mouth is full of care for the workers and that's her. That's what you said. She said it wasn't true. She was correcting your claim. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you once, it's not about making amends. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70076	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague Kovacevic. It is incorrect that the legalization of robbery in privatisation and conversion is based on this law. This law solves the consequences of it. What counterpart Kovacevic is saying is based on the Law on Privatisation, the functioning of the system and the involvement of politics in the economy. It's incorrect that there's no possibility of reshuffle. It exists through a bankruptcy plan, but this law has not given them a dominant role.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70077	The HNS Club is a respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70078	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Before we begin the law, I would like to refer to the discussion of my colleague Bošnjaković who spoke about those years of euphoria acquired when the bankruptcys were happening hundreds and daily, so he said that the reason was actually to abolish, re-design, re-route and so-called socialist companies that could not function which was of course true. There were masses of companies where the number of employees was enormously high in accordance with the intensities then that everyone had to be employed, everyone had to do something, so let's get a job for the man and such companies went into bankruptcy of course. That was one reason, but it wasn't the only reason. The second reason for the organisation of shameful bankruptcys in the early 1990s and until the mid-1990s was the redistribution of social wealth, in fact, the effort to fit into a legally arranged privatisation procedure into a bankruptcy process that had a greatly named mechanism – a reconstruction mechanism that should mean that the company should be turned around, to find new ways of organisational organisation, a new production program, a new one, a new one that was actually made up in the sale of everything to the last chair from the company, so the bankruptcys at that time looked like the debates from the garage of the Americans, opened the door and whoever came and wanted to buy it was, the company was in a long and painful procedure that the workers paid for the drum, and everything that was worth it was in the hands of those who bought it. Bank at that time, the word bankruptcy at that time was equated with the word liquidation which, of course, should not, not only should but should not be the case. In the entire civilised world, bankruptcy is actually a change of owners, possibly a change of organisation, but in 90% of cases certainly not the liquidation of the company. The liquidation of the company comes for a whole other reason than bankruptcy. But in this bill, some good moves have been made to say that times have calmed down and that we intend to operate in a normal legal environment, and among other things, that term has been reshuffled from the law. There's also a connotation there of socialist from Stalin's time, and the notion of a bankruptcy plan has been introduced which, of course, makes a lot more sense. A provision was introduced under which the bankruptcy is initiated at least in other accounts the firm has the means to settle debts. I'd like to remind you of one provision, I think it was the Court Register Act that we passed a few months ago where the company's founder's obligation to settle its obligations in the previous company was lifted before it started the next company. We've abolished that provision. I should be able to connect her to this article so that you can really see where things are going still in the bankruptcy process. They are going to move some of the capital through independent accounts or some strange places and move to a new company even though the owner of this company actually made debts not only to his direct business partners, but probably also to the state, and certainly also to his employees, to his workers. The good thing that's being introduced inside is electronic communication with the world, the bankruptcy judges. So everyone interested will be able to see on the court's website what's actually going on. Not only is bankruptcy launched, but what decisions are made in this process which is good because both stakeholders and debtors will be able to better concentrate, in fact what they do within this time period of bankruptcy that is shortened which is equally good. A bankruptcy procedure becomes a litigation procedure with one sentence of an article. I suppose it's in line with European intensities not to quote different numbers of articles, the People's Journal of this, the People's Journal of those and in that they're all lost. However, the question is whether this is clear enough in our circumstances, whether we actually know exactly what it means and in which case and at which segment and to what level the litigation process will be applied in a bankruptcy procedure, and where it will not be possible. The fiduciaryity of that secretive part of the debt remained inside. It is sad that it mainly concerns banking institutions, so those who have shown the least understanding in the current bankruptcy proceedings for both the social interest and the interests of workers and anyone else but the interest of these banks. I am convinced that there should be a legal possibility and regulation that would prevent what was happening in companies that went into bankruptcy that banks in a unfair, non-market and monopoly manner have adopted and forwarded to those to whom they should have been forwarded. Articles 9, 12 and 16 shall refer to the bank manager. They talk about who can be, what are the formal conditions, about how to choose, or who chooses a bankruptcy manager, and how that person is appointed. The formal resolutions, the formal criteria of choosing a bankruptcy manager are, of course, a good, high professional cook, this kind of test, this kind of ability, it all stands together. But what's not here, and what's been happening to us for a decade is the prevention of the fabrication of a bankruptcy judge and a bankruptcy manager whose economy of the whole region can actually be put into a situation to stop working, and to get tycoons into places so far that the only goal is to extract trade capital, sell what's in stock, and then bring things back to some kind of social or don't know what kind of property they own. A similar situation happened in the town of Karlovac, it still happens, when a tycoon jumped into a wood-processing company, sold everything that was in stock, logs, parquets, buildings, everything neatly sold a man and then returned the company and said, forgive me, I wouldn't want to mess with it, you give me back my money, I won't have any more fun here. Another such situation happened with the carlovic milk industry where another tycoon, meanwhile tried, tried and tried for years, and nothing happened to me in debt to that company with the debts of its other companies, once again pulled the trade capital and brought once-successful company into a situation that doesn't know who's going to buy it, because no one's buying it, it's too complicated and too much debt, there's too much obligation. This is the direct consequence of the misrepresentation of a bankruptcy judge and of a bankruptcy manager who worked in these companies. It's said in one place that creditors can choose a bankruptcy manager. Which, of course, makes sense. They are persons, i.e. legal persons, natural persons, regardless of who are most interested in bankruptcy and to get what is theirs from the company. However, if we go back to the situation that banks have fiduciary supervision over bankruptcy, so that they can directly draw capital out, the question arises whether it is in the interest of such creditors to turn bankruptcy into liquidation, otherwise just such creditors would set up such a bankruptcy manager who would be aware of the sale of chairs from the offices at the end of the ballad. Well, I think in that provision, too, it might need to be more restrictive than it is now in the text of the law. The bankruptcy committee seems to me to be calling itself provided for in Article 22 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Committee of the Prophets does not, in fact, accepts that the Committee does not, in Article 22, not compensate these people for their work, does not write so, writes the prize. So these people are rewarded for participating in bankruptcy proceedings in their own name. I don't see why this reward is necessary. If you need to make up for people's expenses, okay, of course you need to make up for the costs, no one will work for bad at your expense. But the members of that Committee of the Prophets are interested in bankruptcy, have a certain benefit of extracting what they have invested, what the company owes them, and therefore I don't see why they should receive awards there. In accordance with Article 34 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission is to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 34 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Which is also logical and normal, but it carries a danger in it, because if a bankruptcy manager is given such broad powers that whatever he actually thinks of is a cost of bankruptcy proceedings. It can happen that a good part of the capital, a good part of the money from the bankruptcy actually moves into the cost and that bankruptcy serves itself. Here, we settle all the expenses, we're done, we lock the door and we go home. Articles 67, 75, regulate the demand of workers. We were about two years ago when we talked about the bankruptcy law here, and we suggested that workers be first-class creditors, that they have absolute advantage over others. I am glad that the motionary came up with this and saw the impossible situation in which workers are in line with today’s law. However, if we know who and how to define workers' claims, who and how can pay expensive lawyers who will participate in the process, and how the fidudianity of some believers is regulated. We don't think, either, at the HNS club, that neither this procedure is regulated enough nor enough to protect Croatian workers. Everything in the law is real. And basically good. If these remarks were respected and the security mechanisms were installed in such a proposal, we could agree with it. Without it, I'm afraid it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70079	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70080	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So that I, like Pero Kovacevic, would not start from these strategic, general, principled, natural etc. The remarks I will begin from being, in essence, I will start from being, in essence, which is that at the end of May this year, blocked accounts in Croatia had 21 thousand 210 legal persons, and their outstanding payment orders amounted to more than 11 billion 260 million kuna. These are the data means financial agencies that were posted yesterday on her website. So if those data were compared with those for April, in May, the number of insolvency legal entities increased slightly but the amount of outstanding orders was not changed. Thus, the number of insolvency legal entities increased by 80 in May compared to April, the amount of outstanding orders remained as in April 11 billion 260 million kuna. The number of employees, now interesting, who work in insolvency companies, has increased by a thousand 260 workers. So from 35,000 635 in April to 36,000 895 in May. So in a month's time for a thousand 260 workers, and yesterday we simply talked about how only honey and milk flow in this country. The FINA also notes that the characteristics of the completed outstanding orders have been stabilised over a long period of time. The majority refers to companies in the area of trade... significantly ahead of others are clearly business entities from Zagreb because it is the largest. The time period of the blockades is dominated by them for more than a year in April, and on the basis of the creation, they are weighted by obligations based on court decisions. That's what I was quoting for this particular subject of FINA's data. And that's what we should start with. So we can paint here as much as we want, but the fact is that 2005 lived harder than it was in 2004 and business, as it was in 2004 harder than in 2003, and this also confirms that the increase in wages in 2005 was only 1.7% in inflation of 4.1%). And if with 1.7% you can cover that difference up to 4.1% then it's good, but as Mr Tadic said yesterday, it would be fog release. Article 2 is replaced by the following: The debtor will be deemed to be incompetent to pay if there are unsettled obligations with a bank carrying out payment transactions for him for a period of more than 60 days, which should have been charged on the basis of valid payment grounds without further consent by the debtor from any of his accounts, etc. It's okay. But if anyone thinks about this little employer, that little craftsman, I should tell a private man who basically employs his family and who, at this point, holds 30-40% of the jobs in Croatia. I claim that no one cares about these people, and the structure of work changes significantly. Tragedy is when a worker doesn't get paid, everything needs to be done to make sure it doesn't happen, but if a craftsman who fits with all his assets comes into one such situation, the tragedy will be equal or far greater. These people didn't get as much as I don't know many of you social housing, credits, don't get a chance to reach a business space, as land farmers, and I won't talk about tycoons, but actually here are the gentlemen of the law, the bankruptcy law is exactly what I'm talking about, about 11 billion 260 million kunas, 21 thousand 210 legal persons who are insolvent and 35 thousand 635 workers who work in these insolvency companies according to the FINA data, really maybe it's 100 thousand people. I'd like to be wrong, but the bankruptcy in Croatia has hardly been and will be a new beginning, the question is whether he is anywhere. As a rule, it's a failure or end of a business entity. We have a problem with bankruptcy managers who are usually liquidators, not starters of new jobs. One of the exceptions was, for example, this bankruptcy manager at Victor Lentz, but there, at the end of the line, 500 people were left at home or working today in Italy, the loss per state was $70-80 million. Out of a thousand co-operatives 500 have been seized, but let's go further and argue that Uljanik, Uljanika can guarantee the survival of this centuries-old company that should not have been privatised as Croatian squires should not be privatised in the years ahead. In 2003, the last time has been amended is the meaning of the provisions of the bankruptcy law. We see these provisions concerned the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, the position of the bank manager changed. This is where these institutes were changed with legal characters. It changed the position of the creditor, the cashing of the bankruptcy. The bankruptcy procedure itself has been accelerated. For the first time, workers are mentioned in the first payment order to one-third of the claim, not as positive now in that gross amount, and that is perhaps why this law should a priori support it. But on the other hand, life is different. The paper is then, perhaps even now suffering everything, and some of the gentlemen's provisions didn't even come back to life, which is, say, the availability of unsuspected items of bankruptcy. However, as it is said here in the explanation, the aim of this law is to return certain institutes, quote "to return certain institutes before the last changes and from the issue of speeding up the bankruptcy process whether or not there will be anything at the end. It is good that a bankruptcy manager, as everyone pointed out, can no longer be engaged in more than three companies or three cases where the bankruptcy mass has been estimated at more than two million kunas. Up until now, it has been known that some led 20, 30, I don't even know 50 bankruptcy procedures. Of course, according to each of them, they were cashing in those 10,000 kunas for what they were entitled to and that none of them benefited from it except themselves. It's good to say now that we're sanctioning and missing believers from the congregation, i.e. that the objection can only be put to the conclusion of the main debate. Then it is necessary to remove the situation for the delinquents to exercise their rights in bankruptcy instead of outside of it, not to turn the court into an instrument of their settlement. in a particular agency for the sale of assets by a creditor or an agency, this buy-in agency because this creates enormous social damage. We need to do everything we can to get rid of it in the end to be honest, avoid it, and maybe the state should be a little more flexible. I know this would put some legal entities in an unequal position but, let's say, state-owned companies are more equal than private ones, which is not market business again, but so far, they'll probably be in the future. Why am I saying that? Because the bankruptcy of a small subject in this country doesn't concern anyone even though I claim you should. And we need to fight for every job. The bankruptcy of the large entity is clear that the state’s concern is always, for example, Lenca or other such companies. Because if they leave, they go with him and dozens, and even hundreds of small cooperatives, and some such companies, when they're in ruins, can pull not only certain municipalities, cities, but the entire county. The latest case is this Infrastructure Stone of Mr. Rabbit, so on bankruptcy, let's say some banks like the County Bank, etc. There's no need to mention it at all. That's why I like to say that you have to fight for every job. I object to additional fees which are now regulated or listed by this law. The procedure is expensive in itself and needs it clearly, it does not need to be further financially burdened. The cost of truth cannot always be settled from the bankruptcy of those small entities, but let it be paid by the state, not to force the company into bankruptcy in order to or liquidate the money. Finally, it has always been a budgetary obligation, but no government has built this into its annual budgets. The fact is, none of the MPs have ever come up with a discussion on the budget or budget rebalancing. However, this was a legal obligation until today. But the point is, if the worker had a billing championship, I'd give even a head start to the little believers over the state. But it is absolutely necessary to welcome that the worker participates in the first payment order with his gross claim, not as it has been with one-third so far. Here's a sort of concern for the worker, but the real concern for the worker is when full employment will be allowed. So full-time employment policy is the best and social policy and best working policy and clearly the best development policy. For the end. As the existing law, apart from those little remarks, wasn't bad, wasn't bad either. The problem with us is that practice was bad. It wasn't even the past law, as it wasn't going to be this one. The problem is, or guilt may need to be sought by bankruptcy managers and judges themselves. If it's something to speed up, then it needs to be done, but life is a little more complex than it seems. We are a bureaucratized country and when someone seeks and in bankruptcy their own interest is difficult and has this legal possibility through the institutes of a bankruptcy administrator, judge, etc. We'll hardly avoid it. With the budget, whether the budget is charged or the allocation of these funds I say it is easy to play, but making money on the market is far more difficult, and it is these and just the others who make money holding the state and therefore each of us in the government should take care of them in particular. The stories of new beginnings that are heard here through bankruptcy have at least changed. Croatian practice in the last ten years has been significantly different. I claim that bankruptcy, not to say, is what we're all aware of, in 95% of the cases it was the end of a company only it was an extraordinary start and it was usually a new start that could be seen in some large business entities. I'm glad some MPs here like Mr. Hrelja mentioned... who's in bankruptcy now but still works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a pity, for example, that the “First - Maiden” of Rasha was not simply allowed to enter the “Cimos” because there could be hundreds of jobs there today. She could've been working from Pazin, but let's let it go now. We have as someone here has spoken several kinds of bankruptcy over the war, I don't know the loss of the market in ex Yugoslavia, as it is called the Soviet Union, etc. It collapsed at the start of 50% of the company because of it. Other types of bankruptcy are normal due to privatisation, due to sucking essence from the company. Then, where the takeover was agreed with some thirds, only somewhere in the end was the course of the rescue of production in a company, for example “TPS” from Labin. And today, when banks control simply the complete financial under quotes the essence where their interest and interest of their owners is in front of the national and each other, it's hard for us monsters who expect us to mention 21,000 companies and monsters to be released. It will simply go according to their logic and there is no god to prevent them in their demands, and we have to take care of workers by such bankruptcy laws, but on the other hand, it is clear in these business entities even though we allow them to come into a more privileged position than they have ever been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70081	Thank you. At 10.49, the time for the hearing was up. Club representatives of HSLS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70082	I thank the honourable Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honored representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. It is in fact the fate of the liberals to find themselves in this way between such optimistic projections as, say, they were articulated by counterpart Bošnjakovic or what counterpart Kovacevic offers on behalf of HSP where he really continues a good tradition or relatively good tradition of Croatian philosophy, which is a criticism of everything that exists. It seems to me, however, that somewhere between these two extremes is true. It should be asked why the projection of bankruptcy or the perception of bankruptcy in our public is negative. Certainly not because the citizens, which the public is whimsical, which are fantastic, so then consciously see bad and actually do not want to see anything good in the fact I do not know that bankruptcy entirely has a legitimate and legal procedure. We witnessed that in the 1990s, the bauk of bankruptcy orbited Croatia. And indeed, what my colleague Vuljanic said on behalf of HNS, bankruptcy was very often a synonym for liquidation. I who, colleague Letica warned me of these fine linguistic actually shades in our language that bankruptcy does not actually contain this association to bankruptcy, but actually that something relatively easy to acquire, especially when it is with solid laws and confirmed. And it seems to me exactly that what we have in front of us today is a good diagnosis, a good cure, but unfortunately, I'm not going to be able to apply it in the best way possible. Here, fellow Cain spoke of over 21, 21,000 legal persons who are not able at this time for 60 days, are not solvable, that there are about 40,000 workers out there and that there are about 11 billion kunas trapped there somewhere. That means over 10% of our annual budget. What I mean first of all is the political public but the other public is expecting, however, is one analysis of the history of our bankruptcys that are actually, what was actually happening in history and what were really the consequences that we are obviously still suffering today. Surely the number of unemployed over 300 thousand is not something that happened overnight to have its own deep causes. And I'm not only saying this legal history, nor this financial history, we don't really know much about these bankruptcy managers who, for a time, it was certainly perhaps the most interesting interest in Croatia, but you can't do that, only when a little incident happens then something about these anomalies is found out. But the fact that someone could have been in a 20-year-old company bankruptcy manager I have to, there's a problem whether a representative or chief can be performing that function at the same time, it's a big problem about it being spoken of. But if someone could run a 20 at the same time, be a bankruptcy manager in 20 companies it's almost considered normal and about it only when the incident happens then we have that reaction. And obviously, as far as bankruptcy was concerned, there was so much going on quite secretly and as something that wasn't really directed to touch too much, because obviously that privatisation and then that bankruptcy should actually solve these negative consequences of privatisation, is something that is taboo topic and which is best not to touch. We can say and relativize that it actually belongs to the transition, that actually every revolutionary social change starts and grabs and that the grab is very often based on all these political and social changes, but certainly the time comes when things are stabilised and when with good laws it tries to sort out the rules of the game. And I think someone bigger said that now things are much better than these '90s and that right now in 2006 and this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law in some way is actually the answer to that changed fact. And I, too, accept at the club that the objective of these changes is significant, that it is important to significantly strengthen the position of the creditors in the bankruptcy process and that it is very important to simplify the bankruptcy process. Furthermore, the need for a more complete, more balanced settlement of creditors and the removal from the economic life of those economic operators who are unable to carry out economic activities in a market-friendly manner. All I'm saying is, it's all nice, it's all easy, I say it's in principle standing. But very often we have actually witnessed a very different practice. There's that problem, actually, that you have a good diagnosis, a good cure, but it's actually unacceptable because it wants some other interests to be involved in this economic life. Some have said that very often bankruptcys were these programmed bankruptcys, targeted bankruptcys precisely to eliminate someone from the market and create exactly these monopoly conditions. The law says that the conditions for opening a bankruptcy procedure, bankruptcy proceedings, the legal consequences of its opening and implementation will be regulated, then the reshuffle of the debtor unable to pay on the basis of the bankruptcy plan, the personal debtor unable to pay and the conditions, the effects of the release of debtors from the remaining obligations. And I'm saying, compared to the first reading, we think that this adjusted law has experienced some changes, but we're still, we're going to think that some of the provisions remain questionable. The bankruptcy is to be determined only if there is a existence which, in the law of the intended reasons, is incompetence for payment and over-indebtedness. Now, if right now in Croatia you have 20, over 21 thousand legal bases that meet this condition, whether there is now, or how flexible we can be, and how much we can actually be, it can be recognised that many of those who are in such a situation have come not only by their own fault, but precisely because of certain unforeseen flows on the financial and other market. So if, if this period cannot be met by its own obligations, it will be considered to be fulfilled by the terms of the bankruptcy, even though I say there, maybe it should be done a little bit in some way. To recognize that there are also players who need only a little push, so that the situation will be a situation to meet their obligations. It is now clearly determined when the debtor is considered incompetent to pay, so it is much simpler to determine that fact than if it was now so far under the current law. And then, that delay with the beginning of bankruptcy can be avoided during various manipulations, primarily at the expense of the believers. What... before we pointed out this transparency of the introduction of public publication of court letters and their e-mails is a special visual communication of courts with parties and to the public that simplifying the availability of information to all interested persons is, in fact, a way that prevents manipulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And above all, he's interested, he's able not to read it just in the papers, but to see what it's really about and to take off the veil of secrecy from the bankruptcy process. The determination of the r-eye duration of the previous procedure is three months which have not been established until now will significantly speed up this process. Also, the delay that the second-degree must resolve the appeal within 60 days will also be considered a positive newspaper. The bankruptcy plan must be taken within 6 months of the decision being taken, and the objective is to show whether the continuation of production, or recovery of debtors, is relevant. It's actually the one most important to say, the most sensitive part of the operation that anyone who will determine whether it makes sense to resuscitate or simply allow exactly what we had to bankruptcy is perceived as ordinary liquidation. In terms of persons who may be bankrupt managers, the inequality between lawyers and other persons is corrected because the obligation to pass an expert exam is now being introduced although I say it is only, that it is so quite cosmetic, and in addition to this correcting of this injustice we do not think that there is the only point of the problem. Article 10 of the final proposal states that the list of bankruptcy managers will be determined by the minister. It would be good to prescribe legislation and ways in which the minister will commit himself to individual candidates. It's very, I mean, you see, no one responded exactly to the fact that I don't know in, here I'm going to talk, everyone's talking out of some middle of it. In Osijek famously in the 1990s, a textile industry disappeared and no one was alive to answer for it. Less or less, they were persons, bankruptcy managers were chosen exclusively by the political similarities that eliminated it, nor was the judge responsible, in fact, not knowing exactly who was to blame for what happened overnight, but to actually be the irony of fate, at that time Osijek was given the most modern textile school in the area. Now we're getting a modern school, but without this moment we're there at the beginning of this millennium, this century we've been forced to accept the conditions of a Beneton that I don't think are great, that they're great conditions, it's precisely that this dirty industry is moving from the West to the East, but normally just to save this very capable workforce that can, which is really out of business like this, you have to as a transition country with this kind of environment you have to agree to, and let's just say, one LIO, Svilana, Tekos and all the companies that had the tradition are actually untraceable, and that no one has really responded that these are so many people very easy to liquidate these companies, and that it's local, and thus the central government mostly learned from the media precisely because of what was happening elsewhere and far from the eyes of this political and the public. It would be good to take a partial solution from the applicable legal provisions, we mean Article 21 and the Minister to commit to... opinions on candidates for bankruptcy managers and that this must be in some agreement with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Trade. We don't have the illusion to say it is the best solution, but somehow it's humanizing or trusting such a responsible obligation still has to go through some other instance. Article 30 of this final proposal stipulates that the previous procedure which otherwise lasted for a very long time will not now be able to last longer than three months from the adoption of a decision to initiate the bankruptcy procedure unless the specific circumstances require a longer period of time, but it is always good to determine what specific circumstances these are, which means special circumstances. Furthermore, it is a big problem that during bankruptcy proceedings, litigation procedures can be conducted against a legal person, because some company has branches throughout Croatia, many of them have had memories in the countries of the former Yugoslavia and these branches can be conducted due to debt, and until the litigation procedures are completed, you cannot know what the total assets of the company that are in bankruptcy are and it certainly makes it difficult and it is precisely in the introduction of these assumptions for this murky business. All mentioned, along with many other changes and additions, for example. in terms of... The credentials, the costs of the procedure, the credentials’ declarations give certain guarantees that this law will be effective in all insolvency-related transactions. [[You don't understand.]] To assume that the offered solutions will also be feasible in practice, that is what is really most important, and that it will not happen as has happened so far that some solutions are theoretically very high-quality, but in practice they are shown to be actually inexecutable. The bankruptcy should never go recklessly and prematurely. The bankruptcy certainly isn't... and to solve all our problems because that is why this context, the contextualization of our situation, transition, political and economic and ine is what it is. [[You don't understand.]] First of all, all other possibilities of debt recovery should be exhausted from the agreement with the creditors, the Ministry of Finance, tax collection and banks as creditors, and it is good that the banks mentioned here are only afraid that this is already a late story. The banks are no longer in our possession, and the banks are just showing themselves as the biggest problem, and I think it's a causal link that banks are not in the hands of Croatia but are in real possession that this unemployment is the same as it is and should always be taken care that after bankruptcy, that production is not stopped, because if production is actually opened, in life a whole series of unemployment problems and it's good to... be introduced, but I think the right to work and work is where and where more important than the fact that it will also be settled from this bankruptcy mass. But regardless of this, the HSLS Club and these remarks that I think should be taken into account, the HSLS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70083	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Testimony of this case is not necessary. Here is the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70085	Your Honor, Mr. President. I have to correct several incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Kramaric, who has been in power since 2000, and then he finds it difficult to speak about this law. The first is an incorrect quote, he says that we rightists criticise for criticism. This is an incorrect allegation because we have openly said that the bankruptcy law is in the function of those who stole Croatian citizens in conversion and privatisation, robbed, that it is in the function of the banking and money institutions that brought the companies into bankruptcy and workers on the road. If it's a criticism for you to criticise it's your problem, it's not our problem. You're still telling me liberals. Is it liberal for your party's president to interfere with the private life of another member of the party, which we conservatives might, but this does not fall under the principle of liberalisation. You're still praising the bankruptcy law, and even you could become a bankruptcy manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70086	My colleague Kovacevic, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, this is one of the polemics, and I give you a warning. Honored representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70087	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. To talk about amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law and to boast of certain provisions and without changing and persistently refusing to amend the Penal Code where we will also include the basic criminal act of economic crime betraying business confidence is to throw dust in the eyes. We've been changing the Penal Code three times already. The justice ministry even ordered changes in economic crime, incrimination but gave up. It would be very interesting to hear exactly from the Resolute Ministry to get to know the public, which is why and who pressured him to give up economic incrimination at least the way we had in 2003. Why am I saying this? Because by careful consideration of the phenomenon of privatization of businesses we find the damage done to business creditors were suppliers, creditors, taxpayers, employees, i.e. workers or even the country itself who failed to collect the sales holding shares. So we have to talk about being so that we can also talk about good and effective bankruptcy law. I will re-emphasise Dr Mladen Klasic, who in his time was the liquidator of the business in London who stopped doing business and even with the will of the owner. Every six months, the company’s register provided a detailed report on all the payments and payments of the company, and the Bible’s oath guaranteed the truthfulness of the data. And he asks why that parade was needed? He says, just in the end, if the claim of any believer remains unrequited, there would be bankruptcy, and I would be called to account for the crime against the believer, for criminal responsibility, for a crime that does not exist in our legal system that we have introduced in 2003. After the end of this, more governments are persistently refusing to sanction this kind of behavior. Why is this interesting? Because it's not just happening today, it can happen and it can happen. Here is how many interests of creditors in the Croatian legal system have been played by witnesses and cases of their shortfall in a known case by one company against the bank when the bankruptcy managers of the debtor's assets have transferred you without compensation to other companies founded by the owner of the bankrupt companies. No one, not even the State's Attorney's office, is seeking criminal responsibility. But why? Because there is no adequate provision in the Penal Code. For two years, the State's Attorney's Office's report has insisted that the State's Attorney's Office be given a legal instrument to prosecute this type of crime. The government keeps refusing. Yes, and keep your mouth shut. That's right. Thank you for this supplement. And you see, these changes that take place in the Banking Law that want to speed up the process were the main guides and changes, the last amendments to the existing law in 2003, which is aimed at, therefore, but within these existing incriminations today, to simplify and speed up bankruptcy proceedings in order to avoid the process being self-intentioned, so that the bankruptcy procedure does not eat the mass itself. And by then it was already visible, and now there's little work to do. In fact, some changes have been made and good things to greet, but fundamental ones are not, or changed, existing ones that seem to be one step or a few steps back. I'll talk about it later. It is also clear to the promoter and all of us that certain bankruptcy norms which are explicit are not respected, that the bankruptcy procedure, despite these explicit and existing norms, continues to last for a long time, that the procedure is delayed and that it often becomes self-sustaining and that sometimes, not so rarely, it is also dissuaded by different creditors, especially banks and financial institutions who are uninterested in the speedy resolution of bankruptcy even though they are creditors. And why is that? Because they have big interest on their highly secured claims and they are not interested in it, and now the promoter I will specify that standard again protects and favours banks and financial institutions. What's good, and that's when you talk about bankruptcy today, is I'm glad HDZ talks like this. We remember before how much they were opponents of ever opening up bankruptcy even though a sick company, a company that creates losses, and why it creates them because the owner and the others are exorcising their profits. That's what we were talking about, but we don't want to sanction it, this government doesn't want to sanction it today, that their purpose was to provide jobs. In particular, it was an important paper to place workers' claims in the first payment order, and that bankruptcy managers can be paid. Now these standards are only relative for their work once they've done their job. That way, bankruptcy managers are stimulated to complete bankruptcy as soon as possible, and we see what happens today. I'm going to say something special about that. It is also very important to establish and strengthen the responsibility of the bankruptcy manager. In this way, as the bankruptcy law changes now, it's not like that. So the basic principle that must rule in bankruptcy is the principle of monocratism. So, it's good that the bankruptcy councils have been lifted. We did it in 2003. The principle of concentration should be strengthened. It is re-exploited and relativised and time-limited again, so it is a real shame why the promoter did not respect this reasoned observation by the SDP Club when we said that the bankruptcy would be accelerated not unless the case was speeded up. After all, it's not some SDP sage. That's what the bankruptcy judges told us, the presidents of the courts who handle these things, but you ignored it. Therefore, we are talking about speeding up bankruptcy, and there is almost no bankruptcy in which no litigation is reported. Therefore, it is illusory to talk about the acceleration of bankruptcy unless we create fixed deadlines in which the bankruptcy proceedings must be completed. It's just perfectly normal and I don't understand why it's the motion team that's coming from the profession itself that keeps refusing. It is noteworthy that the large business was done precisely thanks to the former government that had raised a huge loan to the World Bank in terms of bankruptcy provided this one programme which was very expensive and complicated but which had worked very well, much better than the land-book program. Unfortunately. Those differences that have been observed in relation to the original reading and which are improvements are certainly in Article 9 concerning the criteria for the appointment of bankruptcy managers. However, what is a significant deterioration, which is the provision of Article 18, where the current Article 29 is changed, where the bankruptcy manager is re-demanded, and we see how many unpopular people are in the public, and in the case of workers, who, by our last changes, are therefore willing to force them and thus force them and stimulate them not to be paid for their work unless they bring the bankruptcy to an end. No! No! Now the proposer is changing that provision, and he's certainly saying that he's changing the provision because there's been pressure from bankruptcy managers to judges to pay for their advances. So it abolishes that provision from the advance which was the exception, and when you abolish the provision of advances, what follows? Following is the full possibility of full payment. And then we boast that now the workers have come to the first payment order with a complete demand and not just one part as it was with the 2003 novel, and I ask you, here and on behalf of the SDP Club, I ask the subject of the promoter, and what will it share when precisely having such a standard, the bankruptcy managers have often eaten, and the cost process itself has eaten the entire bankruptcy mass. It'll be a laborer's, beer's victory. We also consider the inadmissible norm and the promoter to be ashamed of the arguments, simply making it uncomfortable for the Ministry to draw up a list of bankruptcy managers. It is certain that there have been many objections to what the High Court has been doing so far. That's certainly true. Then let's find one solution, some middle solution where one of each other would be control. I think that's the smartest thing. This is how it seems to me that first of all in front of the Ministry for which there is a major reform, so there is no need for a leading man, a resolute minister to deal with these problems. So it's obvious, the minister doesn't need it, but who needs it? Obviously, it takes politics to control a person in this way, or what person will be on that list at all? The promoter says, "No, it's not in our power. We just sign the list." But the minister doesn't have to sign that list, and that person, although he meets all the legal requirements and is proposed by the courts, will not be on the list. So why and why? They don't need that kind of authority. And it's certain there will be serious complaints. Therefore, we can already see those standards that will call for a complaint that already and sometimes unwarranted complaints to remove them. This is not the kind of authority a minister needs. After all, it's unclear so let the minister have the authority, but then let him be taxed, which is why someone didn't get on the list. So you can law then and then it's the least important who names it if you have a tax code to state under what conditions and why someone's listed and someone's left out of the list? Like the case with the public notebook recently in Benkovec, the person meets the requirements but is not appointed without any explanation. Well, of course it causes suspicion and suspicion and all kinds of stories. These are inadmissible behaviours of public authorities. It is a good thing that the objection of the Legislative Committee on the restriction of the value of the case of litigation for bankruptcy proceedings has been accepted. But these are less important things. Here's how does the proposer re-apply to financial institutions? A complete chapter 10a, Articles 335a to 335b, which speak of bankruptcy over banks, is excluded from existing norms. And the promoter says that the norms haven't revived you so far, so just because they didn't live to imagine why? To find the instrumentation to bring them back to life, then they get rid of them, those standards. But why? Because this does not correspond to financial institutions that want someone special norming by a special regulation. We, too, already have certain norms as well as the general norms of the financial institutions have risen above almost the state itself. It's something that's absolutely, absolutely unacceptable. Here's how neither the existing laws of the bank and we control them we favor them. The labour law does not respect banks and will not include a representative, a representative of workers on their supervisory board. Because that's not what the Bank Act commits them to. There are no other regulations for them. And then you reward them with these standards. It's something that's inadmissible, but then maybe it's part of your policy where you favor this huge capital. But then it's not in the interest of all citizens. And I'm going to point out once again that it's a real shame, so you don't have a speed-up procedure, and it's all illusory to expect this unless you provide and limit the length of the litigation in bankruptcy proceedings. If this provision were to be respected, we would still have as many procedures as are on the trail of exactly concentration and deadline cuts. This way all these standards that are good won't get results just for stalling. And I'm saying it's a shame that you've relativated, that you've abolished those very important norms that ensure that the creditors first and foremost the workers settle from the bankruptcy mass, which is to limit or prevent the payment of the reward to the bankruptcy managers before the end of the dispute. After all, that's not our solution. It's everywhere in Europe, everywhere in the world. Never been paid off by a bankruptcy manager before the job was done. Eventually for the necessary expenses and possibly advance so that he can just do his duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70088	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70089	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Anticevic-Marinovic, in a series of incorrect allegations, I would correct one. Speaking about the issue of business confidence, I quote: "The interests of the creditors were the last holes on the playing." In part, I am correcting this allegation because the coalition authority put the workers in the second payment order and only partly in the first payment order until this HDZ government in the bill brings the workers back to the first payment order with all gross claims. With all the gross demands of a colleague. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70090	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Thank you. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Dearly respected, the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70091	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament is an incorrect quote from counterpart Antičević where she claimed that this authority does not want to sanction those who are in a legal retreat or those who work, who do not work in the spirit of the law. On the contrary. Such a claim does not stand, but there are bankruptcy managers who have been sanctioned for crimes which were not a practice in your term of office. There are bankruptcy managers who are in crime and they are certainly currently sanctioned during this government. But these are the same during your authority, based on the recommendations of your or your coalition partners. And you must therefore be concerned that you have done so in your time when you are calling this authority to do nothing. There are relevant facts, names of persons who have experienced sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70092	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70093	An incorrect allegation of a respected colleague who literally said, I quote: "The bill limits the rights to demand for workers in bankruptcy proceedings.". On the contrary, these changes to the bankruptcy law are workers and workers seeking this gross claim put into the first higher payment order and are maximum protected in bankruptcy proceedings, unlike the legal solutions you had in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70094	And distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70095	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Anticevic said: "This is proof that your policy favors large capital.", alluding to the ruling coalition and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's just not true. That this is not so evidence is also a fact which is already true here on many occasions that workers of this law have come to the first higher payment order, but not just net claims as it was in your time, but also gross claims. And in your time these workers were somewhere far behind and you didn't then think of them as you're trying to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70096	State Secretary, Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70097	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to refer to a few allegations that do not directly refer to the Banking Law, and they may have something to do with business. Dear Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, called for provisions of the Penal Code relating to criminal acts of economic activity. The fact that the Government as a Proposer of Amendments and Supplements to the Laws recently adopted two months ago did not accept the legal solution proposed by the SDP in the Criminal Law in 2003 does not mean in any event that there are no criminal offences against economic business, both in the applicable law and in the law that was amended and completed approximately two months ago. In fact, there are a number of criminal offences, special heads, injuries to economic business, damage to payment traffic. There's also a crime of cause, so guesses run out. Therefore, we cannot talk about the fact that in our criminal legislation, there are now no criminal offences that those who act unlawfully, who cause bankruptcy abuse of their position, their duty, their powers, including bankruptcy managers, and even bankruptcy judges cannot be punished by our legislation, by criminal law. Secondly, since that has been said here on many occasions, it is said that the World Bank's huge bankruptcy-related loan is being made. I have to say, for the sake of our public here, it's a loan from the World Bank of $5 million. There's also a $250,000 gift. This World Bank loan and the conclusion of the loan was initiated, I must say, during the previous government, while HDZ was in power. The true contract was concluded and was to be realised during the SDP's rule. I really don't want to pollemize here, but I was directly involved in resuscitating this project. The fact is, two and a half years ago, this project was seriously lagging behind and threatened to give up the World Bank because it was getting unsatisfactory grades. Otherwise, this loan relates to the introduction of an automated system of judicial management that will speed up the proceedings to a more significant extent and can contribute to the acceleration of bankruptcy procedures as a whole. Fewer part of this refers to bankruptcy proceedings as such. But the fact is, we're just doing this project right now, and we're actually making it happen. And I use this opportunity to say that as far as designing software is concerned, it should be completed in 1.1.2007. Procedures and procedures before trade courts have already been scheduled. So we hope it stays that way until the end. And as for bankruptcy only now has the loan finally succeeded in honoring that part. Contracts with consultants have been concluded, and now with our commercial courts we are going to the program of education of bankruptcy judges and bankruptcy managers. So much for this loan and for the way it took place and how these funds and dynamics took place. The fact is that this delay, I cannot engage in the reasons when this government came, that is, when there was a change in the Ministry of Justice only then actually won a swing and began to be realized and realized. Of course, as far as we're concerned now, we can't shorten the bankruptcy proceedings if we don't shorten the bankruptcy case. In fact, it is that a bankruptcy, litigation procedure is being conducted separately for something that is being disputed in the bankruptcy. It is true that it can make it difficult and delay bankruptcy proceedings, but it really raises the question of how and how can we condition further... The procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This would certainly be helpful, as the total would shorten the duration of the bankruptcy proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70098	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70099	This World Bank thing is all incorrect, but I wouldn't look back on it, look back. Just look at the World Bank report on the implementation of that loan in 2003. But let's let it go. We did not, State Secretary, propose these changes in 2003. We have made amendments to the Penal Code under which the treason of the Prophet is a criminal offence, by which the failure to pay the worker is a criminal offense. And you refuse that, even though you're familiar with the state's attorney's report that warns you that there are no instruments and you've been set up and working group in these changes. But you gave up on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70100	That's an incorrect quote. So, you should face the secretary of state and you that the legal instrumentaries covered the crimes in the damages of the credentials. ... Too clear. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70101	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Almost no law as a bankruptcy law has experienced so many novels, so many changes, so many additions, it can be freely said that there have been so many doubts in the choice of direction in selecting options by means of the bankruptcy law to answer the burning issue of the Croatian economy, which is the situation in the Croatian economy. And of course, from the very beginning to today, such circumstances have undoubtedly caused negative consequences, because, of course, the right answer is very difficult to find, but a better answer than the one we have, of course, exists. The wandering was also present in selecting a model based on which bankruptcy should be conducted. The wandering was also present in the target of bankruptcy itself. The wandering was also about measures and technologies to conduct bankruptcy proceedings. It's about the model first. The debate was always between two options, sometimes opposing, sometimes silently admitted, but mostly two dilemmas were conducted. Whether bankruptcy with reconstruction as a fundamental indication of bankruptcy or bankruptcy by model make up the credentials and let bankruptcy last as short as possible. This cold or technical procedural option is, of course, socially insensitive, economically unacceptable, on the Croatian model presented itself as a failure. This cold option in which there is no social recognition, in which there is no developmental component which, given the level of bankruptcy procedures, but if you accepted a literal proposal like we have today in the final draft of the law, then given the state of the Croatian economy in those 60 days, there would be so many companies that it would be difficult for an adequate number of bankruptcy managers to engage on condition that everyone adheres to what it says here, and that is that after 60 days when you can't make payments regardless of the reasons, regardless of the circumstances, then you are obliged to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. I argue very responsibly that given the state and possible cyclic crises that occur everywhere not only in Croatia... it could happen that then one 60% of the Croatian economy could go into bankruptcy without any problem. It is therefore necessary to maintain objectivity, social sensitivity, but also to recognise the basic task, which is that it is not good that the government is very clear in those remarks that it has not accepted and as far as the HSS Club and I are concerned, it has not accepted any but also other colleagues, especially counterpart Kovacevic. It speaks of the lack of social sensitivity, but it did not go to the recognition of economic sensitivity. Why? It is incorrect to say, and it is said that it is written, several clubs have asked for it in a saying as well as a whole series of parliamentary deputies and MPs, and not only from the ranks of opposition but also some colleagues from the government, that the resuscitation of a legal person must be stated as a goal and there is no reason to support the fact that the sole aim is to calm down the faith and speed of the procedure, so-called. cold model. That's inadmissible. The very fact that it is thus defined in Article 2 of the old law and that the same saying is transferred to a new law, says that we are not simply on the right track. The objective of the bankruptcy law must be in Croatian circumstances, with the consequences it has brought so far, there must be a different direction of movement. There's got to be a possibility of resuscitating a legal person, there's got to be a reconstruction as a model. We just have to bring him in. Of course, the question arises how to make a distinction between the legal person who can have and has a market perspective, and in which the business management has led to such a position, we need to identify those legal persons whose state has prevented them from becoming and being on their feet, we need to recognize those persons who simply have a certain perspective either in terms of a market perspective or having a specific interest, and the particular interest is every job to preserve and that companies that have a particular number of employees are particularly treated. This law must find an exception, an exception in social sensitivity to recognize phenomena, save jobs. It's a fundamental flaw, it's, this is one raw material that lacks a good half. He doesn't have that good side. This raw side is how to kill and from what we've killed to calm those who are hungry, it's not enough. Of course, in my first reading, I was looking for something that I thought was also rejected, which is, in my opinion, a prerequisite for a serious debate on the bankruptcy law, and I asked for an analysis of the effectiveness of the current legal solutions in bankruptcy. Let's see what this has shown in bankruptcy practice in the past 15 years. Let's try to sort out how in most cases we came out of bankruptcy. Whether the consequences of these bankruptcys were loss of jobs, the shutting down of companies, whether the consequences of this any wealth at the expense of failed companies or the creation of a fiduciary one for the purchase of new businesses, whether the results may have been positive, so we also have positive results, there are also positive results. But the analysis should show to what extent and how to do, given the knowledge of the 15 years we have, where we're going. It is not clear to me that one such analysis cannot be done and that, based on one such analysis, one cannot then discuss the direction of movement. It is unacceptable that this model that we apply is dominant in most European countries. Maybe it is. It may be, but I do not believe that the circumstances in these countries are the same, equal or worse as in Croatia. I just don't believe it. I am not sure that the responsible, social, just state, as it stands in the preamble of our Constitution, must behave irresponsiblely, coldly, insensitively and coldly to try to autize a very serious patient anyway. But this is the Croatian economy. So, of course, we at the HSS Club can't give a passing assessment of this law because from the very beginning we have insisted on certain principles, on some of the principles which unfortunately cannot be found in this bill. It's also unacceptable for us to have a newspaper that's being introduced, but we don't know for what reason. Namely, the sale of assets as a whole which was provided in previous models had primarily one protective character, a social character and should have been in the position of the employee’s post, so that through the full sale of the debtor’s assets could continue production, they could retain jobs. You stayed with the model so you could handle it individually. So discreetly that we can agree, we'll put better objects aside, it can be taken over by the owner or the bankruptcy debtor, and then in some variant, it'll come back to what he was fighting for anyway, and it's struggling to get adequate property in some other way. I think it should have kept selling assets as a whole because it has a deep social character and it should have been in the function of protecting workers, protecting jobs, ultimately protecting the company. Also when we talk about speed, then in Article 28. Ten thousand kunas should be set aside for the Fund, for cover, and often the reason for the non-starting of the bankruptcy procedure lies precisely in the fact that no one wants to risk paying all the charges to be paid. Now he's still got ten thousand kunas, so when you translate it into those companies that he has, of course, then you'll see that it's also a new, difficult environment. Second, this repeatedly repeated relationship between a bankruptcy judge and a bankruptcy manager. The one so neat and good-quality relationship between the two institutions is always the target of criticism. Namely, they are often associated with the correctness of work, with the speed of work, with unequal treatment. Of course, nothing means to a worker what's in the first payment order if certain credentials of those who can decide on it, and since the Law with which it is not resolved that they must be paid but are only in the first payment order. That doesn't mean they're getting paid at all, it doesn't matter because we don't know what they're getting paid from. So we haven't solved anything. We've just clouded things and said, here's the ideal situation, they're here on the second or third page of the law, brilliantly located in the first payout order and with that I can, I won't say what. Another thing, as far as bankruptcy judges and bankruptcy managers are concerned, we've made their relationship very nice now. So far, they had to do something so that some results could be paid. So if they did something, come on, let people pay for something. When you do, it's okay to get paid. However, here we have again allowed the bankruptcy judge to handle it on his own, that he will decide who he will pay and how much he will pay, and on that basis he will be able to resolve the matter before we can see the results of the work. And before we see the results of the work. I also don't think this is a good thing, that this is a step back. He would agree with his colleague Ingrid about the lawsuits because losing such an institute is indeed a loss of pace and dynamics, but also a violation of legal norms. It's a violation of legal norms. It is interesting that when financial institutions and banks continue to be protected, they are constantly protected. Everything can happen to anyone, anyone can fail except the fiducial creditors, banks and other financial institutions to whom nothing applies, and no one can do anything to them. They're excluded from everything, so they're excluded from it. The executions are interrupted with all the believers when bankruptcy proceedings take place, but with them, the various believers are nothing. Of course, that doesn't apply to them because why would they be in that awkward package, why would they get involved when they've already secured themselves with their performances, when they've already become owners without anyone knowing it anyway. When they have the right property, workers are a burden anyway. Well, somebody else better get rid of them, they're not gonna deal with it. What do they need it for? They're going to turn it into another fund, transfer the bank to a lying institution or something, and they're going to get rid of it. It won't even be a problem. Bank law says maximum exposure is 10%. Well, I guess that's not the problem, if that's the other way around. Therefore, the incomprehensible ease of giving someone, taking someone, and on the other hand there is no sense of one social sensitivity, of the workplace and of the yes, and will not be recognized as a fundamental fact. It's not the aim of the law to quickly charge the creditors. The goal is to save the legal person, protect jobs and be socially sensitive. That's why the HSS Club won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70102	Thank you. Now we're going to individual debates. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70103	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The bankruptcy law in regulated markets and markets in which market institutions are built has quite precise objectives. Croatia has not had a regulated market for 15 years and has not built an institution of the market, so it is also wandering in the solutions in the bankruptcy law. We can say that the bankruptcy law changes as the government changes. The furniture literally, not the government, because one option ruled longer. Therefore, the instability of the bankruptcy law speaks of the instability of policy, market uncertainty and the inadequacy of the market. The bankruptcy law on regulated markets applies to the rule of finding a measure between the interests of the creditor of the creditor, creditor, state and worker. This bill literally disrupted the measure and favoured the bankruptcy believer in the first place. So, the aim of this law is to speed up the collection of creditors. However, each of you knows that it does not have to be an economist, that in the market economy and the believer has a responsibility for who and how he operates, so the absurdity is raised to the principle of exclusion only by the right of the believer to be charged in a bankruptcy procedure. It's a philosophy of this bill of bankruptcy. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with such philosophy because we know that there are speculative bankruptcys. There are speculative bankruptcys, and we know something else. In Croatia, loans to firms are deliberately granted under the exception of lower risk, in order to borrow them and to buy them in bankruptcy. There is a elaborate system for how it is done in Croatia. Of course, banks do it most often but big companies do it, even hire illegal lobbyists and agents to know which firm with a good programme will enter into a credit that is risky. What the government proposes and even the experts who worked on making this law were not unique in that, I talked to some. The government is erasing the full head of the bankruptcy law on sale as a whole of the assets of the creditor. Therefore, the government does not worry about the continuation of the work programme or the project that the company had simply concerned only to charge the creditor. Croatia does not have enough programs, there are not enough jobs, there are not enough products or products to easily give up any job or any product. So, in her driving in Croatian politics, even the government in the previous meeting carried out bankruptcy by rerouting in order to protect jobs and the whole production. Now this government's got its whole head wiped out. Therefore, there is no bill that will be passed by the majority's will to sell the entire assets of the creditor and to continue the process of working in a new relationship. Therefore, the market is not only because the believer is irresponsible when he closes deals, makes contracts and trades, but rather his obligation is to check with whom he operates and how he operates. Of course, it should not be said that it is good that the government has prepared a proposal to move workers’ claims in order of payment and to account for them in gross amounts. That's okay. Of course, nothing is new, because in the applicable laws of the Labour Act and other laws, it is always accounted for in gross amounts. All claims are grossly simple because the funds would be damaged if the salary were not accounted for in gross amounts and the funds were not only owned by the state or not owned by the state at all but were communities. When it comes to banks, it is good that someone noticed that the government gave way to the bank's request not to regulate this law of bankruptcy against banks. Even in an explanation, it's said at the request. However, it is not explicitly said on whose request it is said at the request, so it can be interpreted as being at the bank's request. Of course, there are specific reasons for the bankruptcy of banks because in banks there is always money that is state, coin either European or will be European, but when it comes to the market, the liability of banks is far greater than other business entities on the market. The bank was warned by the state that the transfer of credit and funds must be checked by risk management rules, so its responsibility for giving bank loans is far greater, so it often behaves on the principle of how economic operators behave on the market, always trying to revive its partner, not immediately push him into bankruptcy. It is only proof that this law does not have to thus state the level of responsibility and compliance necessary to the needs of Croatian society and Croatian markets to protect both jobs and programmes as a whole. Now, about the nomotechnics themselves, let me just say in Article 2 that I should have said that maybe more circumstances were needed. Namely, the whole sentence goes after when bankruptcy starts, and then the last sentence explains what was meant to be said. I think it's an excessive circumstance and that the debtor during that period had funds on his other accounts that could settle all claims, doesn't mean he's capable of paying. And in the first sentence, he says there will be bankruptcy, regardless of whether he had it in other accounts, etc. So, it explains what the norm has already said. In Article 9, let me just illustrate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "A lawyer may also be appointed as a insolvency manager under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article.". It turns out that under the term of paragraph 1, a natural person is not a lawyer because nothing else does, in paragraph 4, but only singles out a lawyer who must also have high professional training and passed the exam, etc., so he does not give it anything but only separates it from other natural persons who have all the conditions set out in Article 1 needlessly. Article 112 states that some of the provisions of this Law will apply from then on. This is not a wording of the philosophy that applies in the law, but rather says that the provisions and apply them will not begin, but apply a year after the entry into force of this Law must be so to say imperative. There are other things like that, but I think the law's problem in the concept is in general, and not in norms, so I didn't define myself to examine the articles nomotechnically, but I have to say it doesn't satisfy me because the needs of the Croatian markets are the preservation of projects, programmes, jobs and living businesses, and not exclusively the collection of creditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70104	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70105	So it is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who has claimed that the Government is giving up its proposal and the Priory is giving up the ability to preserve production in business entities where bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated. This is not true because there is a solution to the redesign of production and therefore in this sense job insurance. This is also incorrect in the context that you said in relation to the government and its social insensitivity, and another incorrect assumption is that the institute that includes workers in the first higher payout order does not constitute a novelty in the law itself. This is absolutely and incorrectly and incorrectly because this really represents a new institute for the protection of workers' rights under the initiated bankruptcy procedure because they are placed in the first higher payment order, but their claims as creditors are covered by this proposal for a gross amount of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70106	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70107	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. And I can first say that I was embarrassed by the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law because last time in the name of the club and my personal name I gave me a considerable number of objections, as well as suggestions on how and in what way to reach the bankruptcy law that will not only be in the function of those who have robbed and privatised this country, who later went to bankruptcy, drew capital into their own private account, put workers on the road and then opened new companies and many of them even became managers of the year, and we know that one company was granting it. What is our situation with these managers of the year, all those companies where they managed so successfully ended up in bankruptcy. The second is also incomprehensible to me that everywhere a monetary-banking lobby is favoured, that again it is possible for those who have robbed together with banking institutions to have the possibility of destroying competition and obtaining a monopoly in a very simple way that has already been seen in Croatian practice, and that is the position of their people in such companies, to bring them into such a situation that they have to take loans from banks, these loans are so unfavourable that the bank automatically opens up a bankruptcy procedure and then the bank sells it to whoever asked for it, this is the case of the TDR, there are many such cases in Croatia. And then the proposer says on such a remark that the law does not regulate the motives for which someone uses his law established rights. And then it's said that the purpose is to protect workers. Well, it's the same form of demagogy. Compared to the former law, there is some protection of workers because they come to the first payment order, but the right protection of workers is keeping jobs because in this part he will get, a worker who ends up out of work, who ends up on the road will get as little as he can get in that part, but he will end up on the road, what does that part of it mean to him to get? A better variant than when he didn't get anything, but there was our fundamental and my remark was that the bankruptcy law was misunderstood in Croatia. It belongs to a group of development laws, not to a group of withdrawals to those who stole the state, to a group of banking and monetary institutions, because the State Secretary herself said that the objective of the bankruptcy law is to calm down the creditors and as soon as possible. And now who's left damaged? They're left with damaged workers. And the whole part, and so it's set up wrong. It is a completely different situation when such a bankruptcy law has one England, there is one Germany, there is one France, because they know how and how capital was acquired, that it is all legally clean, that there was no illegality, and it is quite another situation when we try to apply other people's solutions to the conversion and privatisation implemented in Croatian way. Just take the case "Name", Mrs. School was the manager of the year, she destroyed "Nam" and then went to "Employment Bank," and from "Employment Bank" they... loans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's the only similar case that such a large chain of commerce failed, it had 17 stores, now it remained on the 5th, and no other trade chain in Croatia failed. How did TDR take over TDZ through these provisions that enabled it? So the bank that loans, they can't pay back, the bank comes to shares and it sells it to the TDR. And what kind of message is that now? What are the answers to the Croatian public? And what are the same answers to the Croatian public when I asked for it on my behalf, on behalf of the club that the bankruptcy manager cannot be the person against whom the criminal proceedings were brought, means for the crimes prosecuted by official duty. And when the Proposer tells me it's a restriction on constitutional rights. No constitutional rights if he's a criminal who's been involved in these situations. If such, if a person who wishes to be employed in the state administration cannot be employed if a criminal proceedings are opened against him. A fellow Ćosic knows from the armed forces we are that no one can be admitted to labour in the Ministry of Defence if he is subject to criminal proceedings under official duty, and is also fired if a criminal procedure is initiated during the service. And how do we get him, and then, and who are we protecting in that part now? Who are we protecting? Let's say a variety of situations, even if you're stronger than everyone else, you can become a bankruptcy manager. Why? 92 criminal charges, even worked at that lawyer's office, so he's got experience and everything. Anyone can become a bankruptcy manager. I mean, what kind of message is that? What a message not to accept such a normal thing. In such situations we know for ourselves what has been happening in Croatia lately regarding the implementation of bankruptcy procedures and everything else. And the last message is that now we've come to that worst thing that we've given the opportunity for those who stole the state to seek the establishment of the rule of law and seek the protection of what they stole. Now that's the message. That's the message. Badava is what you've accepted our observations that have a character of individual character, that have some general character when you're not, you haven't, or you've explained why you haven't accepted the fundamental and principled remarks? And basic and principled remarks that the objective of the bankruptcy law in Croatia at this time when we know everything about how conversion and privatisation can't be the protection of creditors, can't be the quick collection of creditors and can't be directed against workers. We know for ourselves what the situation is with workers who lose their jobs at 40, over 40 years of life. It will be difficult to find in these current conditions in Croatia. So I can't understand that part, that kind of insolence. And I also can't understand some colleagues such as colleagues Kramaric when I, in the name of the Croatian Party Club, also on behalf of the expert team who has looked at all sides, talk about where the shortcomings are, he says it's a criticism for criticism. How, I mean, what, now you answer things like that to a man who doesn't understand the basis of all that. He does not understand that we at the Croatian Party Club are preparing for analysis to be carried out, to know what the actual situation is and that we want to give solutions as a constructive opposition that will enable better functioning. And so we did in the first reading. We gave that, me and my colleague from my club here read in this part of the expert team is normally based on the basis of the expert team we gave a whole series of remarks of principle, general and individual nature. So the intention was to help us, not criticize us for criticism. And now that we have got back to protect those who stole from Croatia, to protect banking and monetary institutions that are no longer Croatian, who use Croatian people and then are said to be critical of criticism. Well, it is not a criticism for criticism and we never will nor can support it, but in the first attempt we will always try to make constructive proposals, remarks that are in the function of Croatian citizens, not like a similar or various other lobbys, which unfortunately begin to govern Croatia. Here's what's visible in this law. That's what we saw in the Property Act. That's what we saw in the Exclusion Act. Every day we get more and more of those laws that are essentially against Croatian citizens, and they function as certain lobbies. And then it's always used to bring such laws to sessions before a regular break whether it's a summer break, whether it's a winter break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70108	Thank you, colleague. We have one reported replica. Representative Tomljanović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70109	So I will replicate to the esteemed Mr. Kovacevic in that part or, in particular, in that part that was incorrectly and incorrectly or incorrectly treated or determined, determine who could be the bankruptcy manager in the sense of carrying out the bankruptcy procedure under the new proposed legal decisions. Practically showing that picture as if it could be, I don't know, criminals, people of suspicious morality, people who are on criminal charges and something like that. In the light of the provisions of Article 9, paragraph 4, I shall read it for the sake of clarity. Therefore, a person who, by law, could not be appointed as a member of the board of directors of the supervisory board or of a similar body may not be appointed as a insolvency administrator. A person who has been convicted of the offences committed against the security of payment and business and of other offences which makes it unworthy to perform the duties of a bankruptcy manager. If this provision is accompanied by a way of becoming a bankruptcy manager, who, in what sense, is subject to expert examinations, with which qualifications? How do you make up a list of bankruptcy managers? In that sense, the real concerns that you are talking about and the solutions that you believe are absolutely not standing by this law, and it absolutely needs to be corrected in terms of this replica and also all of your allegations that you have said that this law protects some lobby, financial lobby or people who have robbed Croatia in one way or another. That absolutely doesn't stand, even if it was the conclusion of your expert team still in the shadows.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70110	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You have the right to respond to your colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70111	Well, I'd be happy if this was exactly what Mr. Emile, a dear colleague, says. Unfortunately, it's not true. And I'd be far happier if I could praise this law. But unfortunately, I can't brag when I don't. I don't have a job like you have to brag. I'm telling what, the truth and only the truth. And now if you don't like it, that's your problem. It's not my problem. And my colleague Emile, don't twist things. I was saying he couldn't be chosen. I've asked for the bankruptcy manager of the persons against whom the criminal proceedings were filed under official duty. You're telling me who was punished. I'm telling you against the person who's been prosecuted, it's not the same. And as a lawyer, as chairman of the Justice Committee, you must know the difference between a criminal procedure initiated and a conviction. That's a big difference. If he can't be admitted to the armed forces, or he'll be fired because he's being prosecuted on official duty, then who are you defending? Who are you defending in that part? If, and I'm extremely normal to you for this part when they're banking, the banking lobbys are, they have, read the law. They have a special priority in the settlements of their claims and such claims where they break competition, create monopoly and such companies to bankrupt. If that's what you're up for, I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70112	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70113	Dear Vice-Presidents, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us, the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law that the Government established after the first debate and I can say that in the first debate this law was already good, correct and that it is now far better and acceptable. Otherwise, since its adoption in 1996, the bankruptcy law has been amended and complemented three times in 1990, 2000 and 2003, and in all these changes in different scales and with different successes, it has been intended to overcome certain current or new solutions in legislation through the removal or modification of certain current problems in practice but also by functionalising, speeding up and exacerbating bankruptcy procedures to improve the general system of implementation of only bankruptcy legal protection. The specific amendments to the 2003 Banking Act in this respect are particularly representative. However, due to some of the problems caused by these changes in practice, and in line with their retroactive application, they caused problems in the bankruptcy process, as compared to bankruptcy... As well as the rights of the credentials relating to payment orders, the decisions on the transfer of money to trustees and a series of other illogical solutions have led to the need to go to these new changes, as well as to comply with European standards, as well as to ensure understanding and a more functional bankruptcy process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In its argument, the Proposer pointed out that the objective and purpose of these amendments is to remove from the law of an inapplicable provision, for example the role of FINA, the sale of assets of debtors as a whole, to avoid multiple legal arrangements of certain legal issues such as fiduciation, equalisation in the rights of all creditors, decisions to make the procedure transparent and to comply with the requirements and standards of the European Union. In my further debate, I will highlight only some important changes in me, a newspaper that proposes these amendments that will certainly improve the conduct of this bankruptcy process. The first clear reason for the insolvency of payment as a condition for the achievement of the bankruptcy procedure. Article 2 of the amendments makes it clear that the debtor is incompetent to pay if there is an unsettled obligation with a bank operating for him for more than 60 days. This is now clear and determined unlike before when it was rather controversial and complicated determination. Furthermore, deadlines are laid down in the procedure. In fact, so far there has been no deadline in the previous procedure, so it takes several years. There was no time limit to settle the appeal for the second-degree court, nor was there a deadline for drawing up the bankruptcy plan. These amendments stipulate that the previous procedure should be completed within three months, that the second-degree court must take a decision by appeal within 60 days and that the bankruptcy plan must be drawn up within 6 months of the date of its decision. These amendments want to speed up the procedure clearly because the basic principle of bankruptcy is the principle of urgency. They also propose changes to the conditions to be met by the bankruptcy manager. Thus, Article 6 proposed that the bankruptcy manager may be any natural person who has a high level of expertise, has passed a professional examination for the bankruptcy manager, that he must be on the list of the Ministry of Justice who will be able to take him off the list if he so requests or for violations of the rules. These changes wish to correct the inequality between lawyers and other persons, and to make clear the obligation to pass professional exams. Likewise, stricter rules are introduced in the practice of bankruptcy management and for those who implement them. In order not to repeat the case where the same bankruptcy manager conducts proceedings in a dozen or more undertakings, these changes are prescribed that one bankruptcy manager may conduct no more than three bankruptcy proceedings. If the bankruptcy mass is greater than 2 million kuna and the company continues to operate. Change is also made in a discerning believer. In fact, it seems to me that this primarily applies to banks will have to change their behaviour so far in the payment of part of their claims. For example, banks will no longer be able to launch bankruptcy over their debtor unless they have tried to collect their claims through the implementation. These changes seek to prevent the launch of a bankruptcy procedure if the proponent can settle from the assets of the debtor and avoid the situation that due to one part of the assets burdened by the mortgage, the creditor goes with the entire assets into bankruptcy. It is also a very important change in Article 71, which brings workers' demand into line with their demand on the basis of their working relationship. In fact, the shareholders of the creditor for their labour claims resulting from the opening of a bankruptcy procedure become creditors of the first higher payout order, in the gross amount of their claims, which puts the worker in a much better position than it was in the present bill of law. Finally, I would also point out some of the advantages for the development of the economy that will produce these changes. According to this new proposal, the entities would go into bankruptcy only after all other options for the recovery of the entities are exhausted. The acceptance of the bankruptcy plan shall be provided with the possibility of the creation of an activity and the recovery of a creditor who would pay his obligations to the creditors out of the profits of the business within the duration of the bankruptcy procedure. Exploitation of assets with greater transparency of the information sold by the asset creates an opportunity for the buyer to offer a better price and the buyer to be a legal person who will continue to benefit economically from the property of the debtor. The shareholders are also expected to continue the economic activity of the creditor by buying the property of the creditor, regardless of the fact that it is not prescribed by law and with such production the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia is more difficult. For all these reasons, I believe this law should be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70114	Thank you very much. Next up is representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70115	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here we have the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Law, which should really be supported because it discusses the basic principles of bankruptcy really in a good way and I will at first repeat those principles again or sum up which are actually the principles of bankruptcy. Well, the first principle is the urgency and economics of bankruptcy as one of the essentials, but there is also the principle and protection of creditors in the bankruptcy process of protecting creditors and the principle of banning the abuse of procedural powers as an extremely important principle. Now, the development of these principles through specific legal norms remove indeed the irregularities observed so far, then the long-term and expensive bankruptcy procedures which in their final case not only resulted in the shutting down of economic operators, so by shutting down and the jobs, but the entire bankruptcy procedure was outlined through the unequal position of the creditors, the inability to settle them, or the settlement of their religious claims from the established bankruptcy mass. This regulation guarantees such an efficient bankruptcy procedure without undue ambiguity, without delay which has always resulted in a long-term bankruptcy process, and indeed unnecessary financial expenditure. In this context, it is necessary to take due account of the provision which defines the insolvency of the payment, that is to say, the insolvency resulting from the law if the debtor has registered outstanding liabilities for a period of more than 60 days and which obligations should have been settled on the basis of valid payment grounds without further consent of the debtor or to be charged from any of his accounts. It is precisely this institute that should support this not only because of the prescribed 60-day deadline, but also when it is considered in relation to Article 251. The Act on Commercial Companies, which provides for the obligation of members of the Management Board of Commercial Companies to take place within a short period of 60 days. That deadline is prescribed in the Company Act of 3 weeks from the date of the failure to pay, so they are mandatory under that law to initiate the bankruptcy procedure themselves. However, the provision that really needs to be highlighted, which concerns us, we have had a lot to hear about in the debates so far, refers to employee workers' claims, but workers who, by the end of the working relationship in terms of carrying out bankruptcy proceedings, have thus become creditors. And it is indeed a new and quality provision and a provision that really improves the position of the workers in the bankruptcy process that places them as creditors by the foundation of this law in the first higher payment order, and into this first higher payment order they enter as creditors with all their claims with therefore gross amounts of their claims in relation to the very bankruptcy mass. And regardless of whether this institute analysed on this or on the other hand, unfortunately, employees in the bankruptcy process are creditors of the bankruptcy procedure in general they are no longer in a working relationship and I think this is an extremely high-quality solution, a socially acceptable solution and which is a newspaper in this sense and improves the status of former employees or workers in that company who appear as creditors in terms of carrying out the bankruptcy procedure, so that absolutely their position is improving in a way that they entered the first payment order. And in this sense, it is absolutely necessary to reject all those remarks that we have had the opportunity to hear about some kind of social insensitivity of the proposings, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary, on the contrary, reading in which we wish, this institute are actually workers their status is in terms of conducting bankruptcy proceedings in this way absolutely and protected. And even claims can also refer to work injuries or professional illnesses. And this category of demand includes, of course, salary contributions and salaries under the provisions of specific laws. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that it was really necessary to specify the deadlines for the smooth performance of the business. Thus, the deadlines for submitting requests in order to abolish the decision of the congregation of the believers. The solution is that such a proposal can be highlighted, but only until the end of the hearing at which the assembly takes place, with the required obligation of the bankruptcy court to decide immediately on this request for the removal of the congregation’s decisions at the assembly, that is, during the duration of the hearing. And only in exceptional and complicated situations is the deadline allowed, but the deadline is therefore maximumly reduced. It's about eight days. In light of this provision, a provision under which the previous bankruptcy procedure may take a maximum period of 3 months should be observed. As regards the deadlines themselves, it is still important to note, i.e. to highlight the date of 60 days in which a decision must be made on the complaint of the Council of the Second Instance, with a view first of all to the decision of course on the opening of the bankruptcy procedure itself. And finally let me look back, given the content of my predecessors' discussions regarding who may be a bankruptcy manager, how it is regulated by law to avoid, in my opinion, maybe all of them to the public and in the extreme line of unpleasant situations towards that institution of a bankruptcy manager or persons who can be bankruptcy managers. I will repeat this once again, and for the sake of clarity, I will read directly this provision of a law that literally says that a bankruptcy manager cannot be appointed as a person who, by law, could not be appointed a member of the board of debtors, a supervisory board or a similar body, a person entitled to commit crimes against the security of payment and business, and other criminal offences that make it unworthy of the duties of a bankruptcy manager. When we add to this explicit legislative provision a way, i.e. the possibility of becoming a bankruptcy manager under the provisions of this law, how the list of bankruptcy managers is made up, how the exams are conducted, in fact which persons in concrete situations can become a bankruptcy manager, then absolutely all those remarks that went even to that extent and so characterised that they can practically not be criminals who are thrown out of criminal prosecution, and even because of commercial crimes be a bankruptcy manager. Well, I can't. It's a direct answer I can't give her. And because of this legal provision that I have read, and also because of these procedural or procedural situations, that is, the way in which a bankruptcy manager can become in a particular situation. In this respect, support should be given to the legislative solution which has been determined to pass the relevant expert examination. So also the expert exam for bankruptcy managers, regardless of why we want to remove the basics, because it really does not correspond to the truth that all irregularities that have been identified by bankruptcy procedures have occurred in history or previously been put into the context of new legal solutions so that when they are both quality and good legal solutions, and this one is indeed, then it is placed on the basis of a questionnaire, it is characterized and it is actually sent to the public by an unacceptable offer. In short, let me conclude. Absolutely this bill should be supported. He's a really good solution. Much more quality than how we've had the situation so far in terms of carrying out a bankruptcy procedure. And I have no doubt that this will be the case, or that as a quality legal solution, we will support this bankruptcy law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70116	Thank you. Honorable representative, Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70117	I think Mr. President is the greatest virtue of this law that is not expected of him too much. This is also seen in the interest of the number of polemics, the correction of false allegations. And that determines the important difference of one let's say parliamentary and public climates in relation to that law, compared to the one I first met in 2000 at the advice of economists in Opatija when Slavko Linic first appeared there and described the situation in the economy as black and upside down. So everything went down and his key thesis there was that the Croatian economy could be cured through bankruptcy. When it comes to the legal regulation of bankruptcy or drums or bankruptcy, there are three principle paradigms. The first paradigm can be called a union working paradigm where it insists on a prior, uncompromising, ad hoc and short-term protection of workers' interests. Another would be the entrepreneurial market paradigm where the old coalition government insisted on this one enthusiasm when they moved away from their own social tradition, so they moved the workers in this payment order very low and they felt that through bankruptcy, entrepreneurs could unload workers' burdens and enable the recovery of the economy. The third paradigm that I stand for and which is partially but partly protected by this law. One social development paradigm that is trying to find a balance between these two principles. For reasons unknown to me, the current ruling coalition can never organise a pyr for its legal proposals, nor when it comes to the packages of these health laws nor when it comes to this law. According to the old law, this law is more socially sensitive, and there is no dispute about it. So the workers were moved according to the first payment order, they were allowed to collect gross claims, trying to insist on shorter deadlines. However, the fact remains that there are significant weaknesses in regulating the profession of the bankruptcy manager. This is where he insists on lists of bankruptcy managers and exams. I would be very interested in what kind of exams these will be, who will do the programs through which education programs they will go through, and this principle provision that practically bankrupt manager can be anyone who has VSS, means whether he is a poet, whether he is 85, 95, whether he has any work experience. If this is some sort of test that will be formally directed or directed towards overcoming the legal structure, I don't think it has much use for it, and in that sense it is truly with due respect to fellow Emil, I think that this provision, even if it is about criminal proceedings that are being initiated under official duty, that such persons may also be bankruptcy managers in conditions where we have a completely inefficient judiciary, when the trials are going on for 10, 15 or 20 years, it is certainly one provision that should be amended by the Government. When it comes to the debate very interesting with the elevated tones of counterpart Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, I think she was right in one part. I go to the State's Attorney's Office every so many times with Mladen Bajic and his associates to see how the items I care about are mostly three criminal charges against the former Minister of Reconstruction and Construction who is currently working on... and the last time I had a debate with Mr. Laz Pejic, perhaps also the leading Croatian money laundering and economic crime expert, I remained quite in such a misery as young people would say. [[You don't understand.]] Namely, he and Mr. Bajic drew my attention to the important weaknesses and Croatian criminal legislation and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office that was discussed yesterday, so if you want this law as well. I will give you a concrete example that Professor Turic and Professor Hebrang will understand well. The man's name and last name came to Hungary, bought two companies. One chain of commerce and one hotel company. He founded two small companies according to the logic of the mailboxes, a single-island company in a European country. The state's attorney's office or the investigative authorities were able to record the man who was sucking these two firms into bankruptcy, acquired a huge fortune, went to those foreign countries with suitcases, physically took the money, took them in and by the existing legislation says Mr. Bajic has no chance of that man being fit for anything. If we are in such a situation as to incapacitate the State's Attorney's Office, the motivation of these people for work will be nothing and, therefore, such people as our former colleague and current mayor will probably be released in the final instance. It's not them, it's the whole system. The system that is also referred to here, which Daniel Kofman speaks of very generously, may be the World Bank's leading expert on the problem of transition so-called "transition". big or political corruption, that the big profits of the first wave of privatisation become the main fighters for the rule of law and must be recognised in this law. So it can be the perfect European law to regulate everything in order to show the legion of artis. There is no dispute over the need to protect the rights of the believers because it is an undisputed fact in European countries. However, if we do not deal with transition experiences where there is equal importance and protection of the rights of creditors and protection of rights, but also protection of the rights of workers and the possibility of healing companies, I put emphasis on the healing of companies, then we will have one important difference between Slovenian and Croatian experience, that the tycoons have done the greatest harm not by getting rich overnight or through bankruptcy proceedings rather than by destroying companies, they have not healed them and are now returning to bankruptcy itself. That's where my colleague Cain was talking about 20 thousand companies that might already be in a position to be bankrupt tomorrow. You have a situation where, well, I have to be very open here, when the new government in some way extends payment orders for a lot of reasons, so indifference increases. You have, for example, a construction entrepreneur, a model entrepreneur who worked for the Croatian railways, who has claims 358 days old, so he's in bankruptcy. He's got nine kids. I happen to know him. I would therefore like it to be understood that this law has great comparative advantages above all in the area of social sensitivity which is a great shower to the old authorities who, in the enthusiasm of encouraging the development of wild capitalism, did not realise that such protection of the rights of thieves and such a threat to workers' rights would put them in a position today that they must go under tents and must return to the period of early communism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70118	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70119	Thank you, Mr. President. This is where I heard my name from an esteemed representative in one context. I don't know if I got it right. It's mostly about some tycoons down there, the truth is, there's a burden coming from where I swept from. But since it's the tycoons, so if I'm among them...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70120	It's not that. Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70121	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70122	Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70123	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I'd like to suggest is that it's really good that this bill draws even further the line of distinction between bankruptcy and liquidation. Unfortunately, there are often times when bankruptcy and liquidation are identified... practice, although liquidation may be one of the consequences of the bankruptcy implementation process, and as a rule it should not be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bankruptcy procedure should first and foremost focus on the settlement of a creditor's liability to creditors and, in that respect, or on income that he or she can make or from assets held by a creditor. Of course, there's an issue here that opens up in which way, and I think it's a very important question for a number of reasons. First, the simplest way to settle part of the debt is usually only part of the debt, not the entire debt. In the event of the sale of the insolvency property, the creditor is normally sold below the average market price and it is not possible to expect to settle the bankruptcy claims to the creditor at the most and, among other things, because these claims are generally higher than the value of the insolvency property, so... Like you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is understandable that it is the particular interest of the creditors who are trying to reach a possible settlement of their claims. Of course there may be additional interest if it comes to speculative bankruptcy when it is actually trying through speculative bankruptcy to reach attractive assets or to come into a position that through attractive assets actually achieves specific goals. However, what is the general objective, what is the general interest of the social community and the state community through bankruptcy proceedings? Through bankruptcy proceedings, it is not and cannot be and should not be of general interest that in fact the legal person on which the bankruptcy is opened is liquidated. And the first thing that should be drawn here is mostly on our occasions when we have so many hundreds of thousands of unemployed, when we have such a situation that we actually need new investments to create new jobs and do everything we can to try to increase the existing jobs, or to try to preserve them. I think it's such an interest that's extremely important and this biggest flaw or lack of this bankruptcy law is that it doesn't encourage creditors through legal measures, so it forces them in a sense that they're actually turning their bankruptcy claims into equity shares in bankrupt companies. In particular, in those cases where companies or legal entities have the opportunity to survive their activity on the market, to develop further or not, a similar or related activity to continue to work and to actually preserve jobs and to preserve economic development in that segment and activities with that legal person. This seems to be one of the key segments that should be developed in the Banking Act, and in this context, it is particularly interesting to consider when legal persons dealing with financial affairs, such as banks, financial institutions and other financial institutions, and other financial institutions appear as creditors. Because it should be kept in mind that often times their claims are not only the result of the debt but also interest, and they often do, and no matter what time after the amendments to the regulations have ceased to exist as... , they also have a part of the green interest that has reached and are portable by then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In such a situation, it would be important to open up this bankruptcy law to the debate and also to law that these bankruptcy, such creditors must convert their claims into shares, and if they cannot convert them into shares for financial business reasons, then, in fact, such claims are left at a discount price to the state and that the state converts that part into its share, in order to practically open itself up to the possibility of saving. I reiterate, in conditions where such a legal person can continue with the same activity on the market... , if it can continue another similar activity with the same technical and technological means or employees, and of course to preserve jobs and employees in such a situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is very important because we must finally be aware that in fact often our bankruptcys were not only the basis to come cheap and fast to property but unfortunately there were also situations that led to the increase in the number of unemployed, to be unemployed... On the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then it's usually said, no one's going to stay hungry, we're a social state, the state will find instruments how to socially deprive, etc., etc. A third group of questions first of all you'd like to point out. I, of course, commend the progress that is related to the fact that workers appear in the first order of charge. Of course, now with gross wages, not just net wages. However, I must say, this is not done to the end either. I would like to recall that gross wages are actually entered by taxes and contributions paid from wages, but what about the contributions or part of the contributions paid on salaries that are not covered here and paid by the employer. And that part should be additionally covered with this part, and not to happen that, for example, you end up bankruptcy, eventually the company goes into liquidation, the man gets some conditions for retirement, comes to retire, and only then finds out that he has three or five years of retirement time not paid, and practically doesn't have a passive retirement internship to solve it. I think that part should also be included, that these questions are definitely solved and definitely removed as a problem. Of course, in addition to these principles and general remarks, there are several individual remarks in which I would very much like to distinguish. First of all, it is unacceptable for me to determine the ministry of bankruptcy, the bankruptcy directors. I don't think that's good, I think the ministry should adopt, in addition to the law of the prescribed conditions, a special act that will determine the conditions and criteria that a person must meet in order to put on the list of bankruptcy managers. And to install it is actually habitual automation. The same situation is also related to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which sets out by a special act the criteria and method of calculating and paying the award to bankruptcy managers. Now the question is, what is it? Whether it's a reward or what it's bound to, whether it's the property of a creditor or the payment of a creditor's claim, etc. if the reward or should actually be determined by some price of work carried out by the bankruptcy manager, I think that's exactly what this should be about and that it should be tied to some average salaries of officials and that a coefficient should be determined in such an institution and it should be resolved. I don't think that the first prize should remain here, and the second part should not be arranged by the government, but rather by the government to regulate the terms and criteria of the determination, and then the way in which the payment is calculated, now for the work done to the bankruptcy manager, not the reward. Therefore, it must be seen in this respect and must be... Second, it should not only be declared that it is an urgent bankruptcy procedure but should set a time limit until the bankruptcy procedure has to be completed except in extremely complex situations where a somewhat longer period is to be set. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, there is a rather interesting situation with the bankruptcy managers when the trustee's bankruptcy or council, or the religious assembly, decides to appoint it as a bankruptcy manager, and the proposed text shows that, in fact, such a bankruptcy manager does not have to pass a bankruptcy exam, or a bankruptcy manager's exam. It is apparent that paragraph 3 is changed and a bankruptcy judge can deny confirmation of the newly appointed bankruptcy manager only if he does not have a high professional equipment, or has no exam... Therefore, he can have an extremely high level of expertise and does not have to have a passed judicial exam because a bankruptcy judge can, but does not have to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this is a question that remains hanging and remains a question actually related to the guarantee regarding the expertise of bankruptcy managers, and therefore it should be specified that, I have no objection to the fact that the generality of bankruptcy creditors may appoint another bankruptcy manager, but I think that he should have a high level of expertise, too, in order to have professional qualifications, he should have passed a professional exam. Of course, it is very interesting that only bankruptcy creditors have the right to appeal to push for the resolution of the bankruptcy manager. The question is, what about the creditor? Does the creditor representing the creditor have the right to appeal? I think he should have one too, so actually, because this is how it can be interpreted even if the bankruptcy manager who solves it doesn't have the right to complain. I think that these issues should be a little more precise and resolved in that part, as should the very important issue of Article 17, where insurance from a bankruptcy manager is said to be provided. However, what is a very interesting cost of insurance falls to the cost of the bankruptcy process. Where's the personal risk then here's the bankruptcy... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's gone. Therefore, if there is no such thing, we have an existing situation, only to additionally burden the bankruptcy property of the creditor with the additional requirements that work in that part and reduce the burden to be borne, i.e. which can be calmed. And the last thing I have to point out in particular is Article 28 concerning a guarantee of 10 thousand kuna if it initiates a bankruptcy procedure, of course, to settle the costs, I have to say that this is a very important issue, and what about those cases where it triggers, for example, a small craftsman who doesn't have such funds? If he can then run, it would not be possible by law to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, I think it is not fair and it is not fair and that it is not in accordance with the Constitution and that this should be further worked out, so the more these costs in the final line fall to the expense of bankruptcy property. Thank you, Mr. President, for the little extension.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70124	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Snjezana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70125	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. During today's debate on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law, it seemed to me and it was right to debate the objectives of the bankruptcy process. If we go from there, then it seems to me that some who have said that there are different opinions that the law is real, that this assessment stands. In fact, for 10 years we have a bankruptcy law with objectives that haven't changed for 10 years, it's good that they haven't changed because it's known exactly what is the purpose of the bankruptcy process, and this is a bankruptcy procedure being implemented for the joint settlement of the creditor's creditor, the cashing of his assets and the division of the funds collected to the creditors. During the bankruptcy procedure, the reshuffle of debtors under the provisions of Chapter 6 of this Act may be carried out in order to regulate the legal position of debtors and their relationship with creditors, in particular to maintain its activities. Therefore, the bankruptcy procedure is the process and the cashing-in of the mass, as well as the possibility of maintaining the business of the debtor. Indeed, I initially said the bankruptcy procedure is a court procedure that comes after a certain economic, i.e. business change has occurred after legal persons, now debtors, have experienced certain changes. First of all, to the difficulties of business, to its overindebtedness, it means incompetence to pay, which is why the bankruptcy procedure is being initiated. So that person is in difficulty. And if we now want those who lay down some true believers to make their intentions possible, that's their right. Also, the right of a creditor and also of a creditor to show interest, that social sensitivity, and to enable that creditor to continue his business. In that direction, I must say that eradicating that provision that applied to the sale of debtors as a whole by the government's assessment is welcome. Unfortunately, this provision did not come into practice. In fact, it has been misread because it is a way for someone to come up with a certain asset at a low price. Reshuffle the debtor is something else. In fact, if we're talking about whether or not the bankruptcy, so we can end it or sell it to the debtor's property, or the debtor as a whole, then it's better for the employees to go to the end of the bankruptcy process. For what? Since labour contracts do not cease under the applicable provisions of Article 120 of this Act which has not been amended. On the other hand, the way it can be brought to life, helping the entity to survive is a reconstruction, and the reconstruction offers various opportunities for staying debtors such as leaving the debtor part of the property or... works, then attach it to another person, determine how to settle bankruptcy creditors, reduce and delay the payment of debt to the debtor, turn the debtor into a loan,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] guarantee or otherwise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are all the ways in which you can through this Law, through the restructured debtor, allow it to survive, but this is a situation that certainly depends on those who are bankrupt creditors. Banks were often mentioned here. Right. Why? Because banks are important persons in the bankruptcy process, but banks get on stage and secure their rights long before this debtor is or do not expect to be in difficulty, because legal persons... The loans are owed to the banks and the banks are then looking for demand insurance and they're becoming... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , i.e. mostly, it's about the pawn's right... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Believers and they have already provided their rights under the law and are in a different position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Through this law, we have tried to discipline banks, or so we prescribe, that they simply and can find their claims, that they do not go into bankruptcy and prevent other debtors or other creditors, or the creditor, from delaying or longer due to their calculations, where they will exercise their rights. It was also about banks to wipe out the head of X in order for banks to be singled out and to strengthen their position or facilitate them because they are in a monopoly position. No, and the reason why this provision was deleted from the law isn't. It wasn't a bank initiative. It is also written in the explanation of the Croatian National Bank, but the Croatian National Bank, which actively participates in the process of accession negotiations and future negotiations of the Republic of Croatia in the entry into the European Union, where the provisions on bank bankruptcy are far more complex, demanding and difficult for banks, and in the process of harmonisation, the Republic of Croatia will make it more detailed, different, stricter in accordance with these obligations to prescribe bank bankruptcy. In contrast, this bankruptcy law is largely fully in line with ACQUIS in that segment. And in addition to this one general picture and the general placement of bankruptcy proceedings within our economy, as well as our judicial procedure as a special procedure, the most words were, of course, rightly, about what our bankruptcy managers are like, because I repeat, they are the ones who run the company, the ones who decide its fate and are therefore the most responsible and therefore, it is very important and important to all of us what professional ethics and expertise are. A bankrupt manager of quality, responsible, professional is not easy to create. Knowledge is sought that is neither legal nor economic nor social. It's one combination of great knowledge. As to the way tests will be conducted through which their knowledge will be determined, we already have some experience. It will be persons who work at the highest courts, who work in financial institutions to verify their knowledge. We had them already in our practice, they were rigorous and one of the reasons why the changes in the law had given up earlier than that because, like we didn't have enough bankruptcy managers. Well, now one is quantity and the other is quality. It may be better to have less bankruptcy managers or to train them longer, but also to have that certainty that they are indeed the best people of knowledge and professional ethics, thus removing any doubt that in a particular bankruptcy procedure and through a bankruptcy manager or possible cooperation between the bankruptcy manager and the judge, something is happening. Of course, judges are also subject to bankruptcy checks on their professional ethics and responsibilities. And additionally as far as this list of bankruptcy managers is concerned. This is a good solution. Why? Because when someone passed the exam and made the list of managers, that decision is an administrative act which can therefore challenge the possibility of judicial control and in this case is prescribed. And there's something else I need to say about the award for the work of bankruptcy managers. It is already prescribed by the government's regulation on criteria and ways of calculating payments. We in this law, unlike what was said, are eradicating the provision of a law that would be prescribed and sometimes perhaps the misuse of the possibility of giving the bankruptcy manager an advance on the part of the work done. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, this law, as assessed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we hope to be improved through the amendment and improved in the meantime between the two readings, will contribute that what are the objectives of the bankruptcy process is achieved through this ten-year experience and through the return of the bankruptcy process to what it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70126	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Second, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70128	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and there are 7 amendments, from 1st to 7th. The government accepts them all. If you need to... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70129	No, thank you very much. They become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 69 votes in favour, 14 abstentions and 10 against were passed, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law, together with the amendments adopted. We are going to the next point - Proposal for a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia 2006-2015. The longer-term plan shall be proposed in accordance with Article 8. Law on defence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Mato Rabotek will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I am pleased to present today the proposal for a long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for the next ten-year period from 2006 to 2015 for many reasons. Between them and because it is also the first time that such a document has been made in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, what this document is really about is that it provides a meaningful framework for future development of military capabilities and the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. He said the basic planning document of developmental planning stemming from the Law on Defence and his proposal was met with the remaining and obligation from the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted at the 18th session. So, in the presentation of this document, I will say something about the context in which it was adopted, about its structure, about the main development objectives, about the main projects in that planned period, and finally about the financial basis on which we have been building projections of the long-term development plan for the armed forces. The long-term plan for the development of the armed forces therefore comes from key military capabilities. In the role of the parameters in the long-term development plan are declared military capabilities which are practically introduced and defined by the adoption of partner objectives through an action plan for membership in the framework of cooperation with NATO, of course those military capabilities aimed at defending the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Its main objective, therefore, is to determine what military capabilities they are, how they will finance and how they will develop and determine the dynamics of the same development. This document determines for each of the groups of these military capabilities the level of end-of-life and how these military capabilities will be developed and maintained. As far as the structure of the armed forces is concerned, the long-term development plan foresees, first and foremost, the retention of all three branches of the armed forces. Croatian Air Force, Croatian Navy and Croatian Air Force and Anti-Air Defence, with which we have a first-level command to support all logistics mechanisms and "restructions" in support of the functioning of the armed forces. The branches of the armed forces here, however, do not have the task of commanding troops, but to prepare troops and individuals for carrying out operations run by a joint operational centre, or a command and plan group from the main headquarters, supported by officers, therefore, and within the framework of a joint dedicated command, and the combined operational centre therefore provides all those logistics, planning, information and other infrastructure facilities necessary for the combined command of the armed forces. We have set up in this long-term development plan of course and certain target sizes. In the first row of the numbered size, we plan therefore to target the numbered size by 2009 because until then we hold that we are able to do all necessary organisational, technical and other preparations for the full professionalisation of the armed forces, for the suspension of military service that we therefore do not stop but use it, and can be activated depending on the development of security threats and threats and so on. And we're introducing a new element of the contractual reserve, so next to that big unclassified reserve we want to have a contractual reserve that will be trained and ready to perform operations in the country and abroad. In a word, the target size of the armed forces is 16 thousand persons employed, up to 1600 civilian employees, up to 6 thousand members of the contract reserve, and up to 2000 handbooks, therefore, who are on voluntary service of the military term. So we're introducing a voluntary military service facility where the handlers who are on voluntary military service will be human and professional, that human and professional base to complete the professional composition in the armed forces, and of course they are also a suitable base for filling up other state services where they seek knowledge of certain military skills and knowledge of elementary military skills and what is otherwise required of members of the armed forces. We have clearly foreseen in this long-term development plan a significant reduction in military property. You have seen these years that the armed forces have already determined a significant number of unspective military properties and of 335 facilities currently used are only 217 intending to remain while 117 will be available for re-use for economic purposes. Otherwise, most of them would have said all the properties owned or held by the Ministry of Defence for their management so far that they had been re-used to meet the social needs of so-called local communities or for the development of economic and other activities in a particular local environment, and we have made sure that it was represented primarily by that interest, the general interest, and that it is not subject to practical authorisation and the giving of these properties in an uncontrollable way to private users. The planned deployment of structural units we intend to achieve by 2009 and it is in fact aimed at rounding up accommodation facilities in, and locations that will increase the rational use of available infrastructure and the economic and efficiency of the regular functioning of the armed forces. A key element of such structured armed forces is the abandonment of the territorial concept of territorial commands and so on, the whole of that structure, the massive structure that followed the armed forces, the essence of the process of transforming the introduction of mobile, efficient and disposable armed forces which, so that this mobility, modularity and distribution are in fact the main principle of the functioning of the military organisation. When we talk about the main development objectives, then we have counted areas for these main development objectives. This is the area of human resources management, the area of military education, the area of material resource management. Then the doctrines and trainings and international military cooperation and ultimately not least important areas of research and development. So in the area of human resources, to briefly specify those key projects is to achieve the target structure that I was talking about by 2009. Realisation of a project full of professionalisation of the armed forces and the establishment of a single staff management system. We have already provided organisational assumptions where we form a single staff management centre from which professional development will be planned, and will be able to advance and know the development path of every officer who is in the armed forces or who enters the armed forces, we introduce a systematisation where expertise, ability, will reach the rank and thus continue to be a criterion for further professional development. It was clearly necessary, it was necessary to spend a certain time from war, so in order to sort of resolve the heritage in which a large number of officers entered the armed forces as needed, and the future criterion will be, therefore, especially for young officers who are schooled to be actually able, expertise with, of course, patriotism, but we must establish objective evaluation criteria that we, in this way, promote through human resources management goals. We also want to tie military education to the national education system, to allow first recognition of a military call in the general public, to enable the recognition of a military call in the national classification of interest, which will actually provide assumptions for the second career of officers coming out of the Armed Forces. Those Armed Forces remain the foundation of the contract. When they complete that contract, they can extend it but they don't have to come to the labour market. They therefore have certain professional skills because they have completed schools that can be nostrified and which fit into the national education system. The equipment and modernisation of the Armed Forces is one very important part in which considerable resources need to be invested in order to achieve full capacity to achieve certain missions and tasks. Of course, without organisational assumptions, without respecting the human factor, we cannot achieve quality transformation but clearly and without resources in support. So, mission and mission, we can't talk about real efficiency and real shifts in the development of the Armed Forces. And that is why this part of material resources has been developed you will see in the document especially for all three branches of the Armed Forces where we have also introduced a special chapter with developed projects and activities, with large development projects both for the field of information and for the area of real estate management, and we can now say briefly by branches. So I would say this, so for all three branches of the Armed Forces, there are some key equipment projects. For the Land Army, it's combat armored vehicles. For the Croatian Navy, it is the construction of coastal, patrol ships that enable the Croatian Navy to act as a service for the protection of Croatia's economic interests in the fishing and ecological zone. So these would be multi-purpose ships that would be used for the purposes of so-called coast guard in that part that has not been effectively represented for now and that is open sea surveillance. And clearly these ships can always be modularly complemented with armed systems in the event of their need for classical military purposes. And Croatian Air Force, so this weighty project would be the introduction of a new fighter aircraft where an existing MiG-21 aircraft has an output resource and we modernised them. We have to, so we can't count them on them anymore as a perspertive tool. For now, the Republic of Croatia has declared its ability to make its own defence policy and protect sovereignty in the airspace. So we're thinking about introducing a new plane. This is a project for which we have secured initial resources and we intend to launch this project. Otherwise, in the selection of projects, we have set a precise level of priorities and we have said what is priority one, priority two, priority three for all three branches of the Armed Forces and for that general part of the information, real estate etc. Priority one is therefore those projects and programmes without which the realization of key military capabilities is at stake. She's questionable. The priority of two is those programmes that are important in terms of the dynamics of the realization of key military capabilities and therefore which are in significant support of the realization of key military capabilities. The priority three are therefore those projects and programmes which do not depend significantly on key military capabilities, but in any case increase the efficiency of the main equipment programmes concerned and have a significant impact on their dynamics. So as far as further listings are concerned, we could mention radar systems. They're very important because they're double civil-military purposes. Radar systems for surveillance of airspace and maritime space. They enter full operational use by the end of 2007 meaning their full integration into Croatia air traffic control where we can deliver data and receive data from the system and therefore these radar systems make a very effective contribution to the protection of Croatia's airspace in passenger transport, protecting Croatia's seas because it passes through the Adriatic and enters and exits over 50,000 different vessels, etc. So, with all these projects, we made sure that the projects must be so guided, selected and planned to be a element of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Today in the world it is common that military devices, equipment and systems are not bought in the market, that they develop together with a potential, so with a strategic partner through technology transfer, the adoption of so-called production in Croatia and through various other forms of so-called. Offset program. You have amazing examples of successful economic cooperation between countries so that armed forces are equipped in other countries such as Hungary and Czechoslovakia and the countries of consummation, so where, in fact, there was a significant investment momentum in modern technology on military programmes, for example, the Republic of Hungary achieved over 3 and a half thousand new jobs for the purchase of new aircraft. Therefore, it is possible to establish a single investment momentum in Croatia through these military programmes. We have all this information and we are serious about it and it will be projects through which the Armed Forces will not only declare themselves a budget consumer, but as an incentive for the development of the Croatian economy. It is important to achieve the necessary standards of accommodation and work of military troops and this will be achieved through the project “Croatian Military of the 21st Century”. We built that project, the prototype of that project. The prototype of this military will be military in Petrinja, which has the best conditions to start with this project and join the euro-Atlantic integration of the Republic of Croatia with this development of the Armed Forces, with the development of military capabilities arising from our membership plans Croatia is becoming a significant factor in promoting security and peace in the world. International missions are represented in this long-term development plan. Our contribution to international missions. We significantly raise our military capabilities in this regard and plan a gradual increase, the participation of the Armed Forces in international military missions and operations up to 8% of the composition of Croatian land forces. If you consider that the long-term development plan says that the target KOV size will be 10 thousand and 300, not 8%, so up to 8% is about 8 hundred. We have declared in missions, so in this long-term plan 700 well-prepared and trained soldiers for various missions, support and preserve peace beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. So here are these days you've just witnessed an initiative to expand our mission to Afghanistan. We have sent the first contingent of our people who are now participating in new forms of support and peace conservation in Afghanistan. We've had military police up until now. Now we have a so-called. Mobile observation teams, mobile training teams, etc. This implies therefore significant means of equipment for training and for logistic monitoring of units located outside the borders of the Armed Forces. I would point out that this is also a major feedback positive effect on the Armed Forces. There is no better training and training, therefore the Armed Forces than their experience in international missions, in these missions of peace support. And I could argue now freely that already today we have achieved a significant critical mass of people with experience from peacekeeping operations that significantly contributes to the degree of military capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. About the funding. We are here in the long-term development plan listed only the main designs of equipment. And the main equipment projects include 70% of the total equipment and modernisation funds and about 30% of the available funds for the secondary programmes. And through this long-term development plan, we want to change the current unfavourable structure of defence budget spending. Where the highest percentage of the defence budget was spent up to 70% on staff, very little on equipment and modernisation and insufficient and insufficient to function, i.e. for the operational costs of the Armed Forces. If we do not want the Armed Forces to be such a system that will be ballast, if we do not want the Armed Forces to be a budgetary burden for us, then through these positive effects we must restore something in the development of the Croatian economy we must change that structure. Our target structure is 26% in 2010 for equipment and modernisation, 27% for operational costs and 47% for staff. In 2010, we remain about the same structure. This is therefore the structure of costs based on the real growth of social, gross social product based on so-called plan documents, which means 4.1%) between 2006 and 2010 and 4% between 2010 and 2015. Based on this growth, based on the share of the defence budget in the gross social product from 2% starting in 2010, and with a linear increase from the current rate to 2% by 2010, we are confident that we can realise all main and supportive equipment programmes. That this foundation is not only a set of wishes we also have confirmation from the Zagreb Economic Institute which has been doing an evaluation and expert review of the financial picture of the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces. And we are pleased to say that our projections, that our plans and predictions were largely confirmed by the Economic Institute. In fact, I'd say they've made suggestions that we might have been a little bit more optimistic, that it's expected in later years and greater growth, etc. We went on purpose conservatively to be realistic on Earth and the review of the Economic Institute gives us the right to believe that this long-term development plan will be achieved as we have drawn it here. Of course, now they'll measure us not according to the quality of the documents. The quality of the document has also been confirmed by our NATO friends and experts. It will now measure us towards implementation, according to the way we apply this long-term development plan. I believe, personally, I believe that we will be able to implement these projects if this Parliament has the understanding of defence costs and sight and to the extent that it is shown in the long-term development plan. Gentlemen, through this long-term development plan, we ensure not only long-term development, but we train, Armed Forces, but we train command and units to successfully meet the security challenges of the 21st century. Of course, we also have alternative mechanisms. If therefore some of the important assumptions for this plan are not satisfied we have alternative mechanisms, we have an alternative plan that will take care of reduction, do not give God a reduction in the cost of defence costs, but also about maintaining key operational capabilities that would not question therefore the defence capabilities of the Republic of Croatia or our role as a factor of peace in the world today. That's it from me. The plan is ahead of you. I'm ready to give further clarifications after your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70132	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70133	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of the Secretary of State regarding defending the correctness of the policy and dealings with the so-called so-called Secretary of State. non-perspective military properties, facilities. It is incorrect because in many cases the government, as former and present, donated these valuable military properties, buildings to municipalities and cities, and in fact it was already known that this was a known donation and ended in private hands, and even some municipalities and cities sold such objects. If this had been used in terms of borrowing, subletting these properties today would have been a completely different situation in the Armed Forces and I am glad that the government finally accepted this model of ours which is true and the German model, and how to re-establish and modernise the Armed Forces using the resources of valuable military properties, not this way that has been worked so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70134	My colleague Kovacevic, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote, so give it once...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70135	It's not a correction for you, but it's for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70136	No, you can't comment. It's not a correction of an incorrect quote. It's one comment and one assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70137	How you didn't listen at all. Mr. President, you're making a mistake, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70138	You have no right to speak. You don't have...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70139	I'm right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70140	You'll get a warning. And you get a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70141	I'm asking that the board... Mr. President, I'm right. The Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure shall determine both this and that first part. You abuse the Rules of Procedure, not me. I'm looking for that means that...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70142	You get another warning again and you lose your right to...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70143	I ask that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure establish... a breach of the Rules of Procedure and a grave violation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70144	You're not looking for anything. You won't ask for anything, because you answer, you win, you take your own word. You don't win. You can't even ask on behalf of the club break because...... You can't ask for a strict measure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please stay seated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70145	You're welcome to follow the Rules of Procedure. I ask that the board determine that you have violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70146	Have a seat, 'cause I'm gonna shut you out of the assembly. Enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70147	You don't threaten.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70148	Enough. Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Committee President Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70149	Dear Mr President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held at the 73rd session on 6 July 2006 discussed a proposal for a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 2006-2015. The proposer points out that the objective of this plan is to establish in the next ten years the military capabilities that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will develop and maintain and establish the financial frameworks and dynamics of their full achievement. In addition, it specifically points to the course of transformation of the defence system which will increase the capacity of... to security challenges and threats. [[You don't understand.]] The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and specifically discussed chapters relating to missions and tasks of military capacity and structure and the development objectives of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Following the discussion, the Committee assesses that the implementation of this plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be able to fully implement its constitutional role in the protection of sovereignty and independence and the defence of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, he unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the proposal for a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 2006-2015, as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70150	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70151	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. So what to say about the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia? It is well known that the Croatian party rights club has been saying since 2002 that it is important that this document is strategic in order to be redesigned, modernised and reformed in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia at all. The Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces was to be adopted in October 2002, meaning six months after the entry into force of the Defence Act which is still valid today. We had two reports on the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia where the Croatian Parliament has unanimously concluded that it is necessary to adopt a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, because without such a document it is strategically impossible to go into reform, neither modernisation nor the reconstruction of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And here I must immediately state on behalf of the Croatian Party Club that it is at the end of our claim that no modernization, no reshuffle, no reform was carried out in Croatia from 2002 to today because it was not possible to implement it because we did not have a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And what the former ministers said at the time is that it is working on modernisation, how it is working on reform, how to implement reform, how to modernise if there is no long-term development plan for the Armed Forces, if there is no defence plan. These are two key and strategic documents. So it was a literal reduction in number, with the mere reduction of the movement of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and because we waited four years for this very important strategic document, there was this situation of negative consequences, that the situation in the Armed Forces from year to year instead of being improved, that it was modernised, it was getting worse. If that were true, that's what she told you, that's who was at the meeting and the US ambassador to the NATO Alliance of Mrs. Nulan when we were at the meeting, she openly said you were just moving with reforms and modernisation in the Armed Forces. What you have done now is neither reform nor modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, what I was correcting as secretary of state made a mistake both the former and the current government did not treat the so-called so-called government. worth military property. We know what the number was worth military property. This was the only option of how and how to implement the modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which means that those who have been conditionally declared worthy of military property are inoperable to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, was the wrong policy to donate these valuable military properties to municipalities and cities, so that it was known at the end in whose hands they would end up. The case is special, for example, in the Varazdin area where the former government gave military property to the city of Varazdin, and the town of Varazdin sold it. I think if that's what politics was like, it's got valuable military property. There's a lot of cases like this, unfortunately, but I'm not going to look back on them right now. And I am finally pleased that both the President of the State and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have accepted the position of the Croatian Party's Club of Rights, that we cannot implement the modernisation and reconstruction of the Armed Forces unless we provide sufficient resources for that part. We know it's not small funds. What the Ministry of Defence, or Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia gets from the budget is insufficient because of the fact that over 70 and some percent of the funds are used for wages and material costs. And it is impossible to go into modernization, purchase of transport armored vehicles and everything that is important and necessary for a modern modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. So we hope that this important process of re-designing the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will finally be launched, as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says. That we have a small, effective, modern armed force that will have all three branches, which will be able to meet all the challenges. We need to be aware of the fact that the function of the Armed Forces is not just a sense of action in the event of war, the direct threat of independence and unity. We also have this part of the pension function of the Armed Forces, mainly related to handling in the case of, say, elementary,... An accident, any kind of accident. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know for ourselves what our situation is now, how and what time we can mobilise, put in place to, say, act in such similar situations. We know for ourselves what the situation in our reserve is like, the last time some kind of military exercise or something was organized. Therefore, but this is normal and the consequence of all of this which is a lack of funds and which is essentially 4,5 years in fact, has been lost a lot of time because nothing in the area of modernisation, the area of reconstruction, the area of strengthening the Armed Forces did not seem to be. However, I say, it was only a literal, downgraded number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We hope that finally, therefore, now with this new process, they will start to act on this long-term plan because what is contained in the long-term HSP club plan supports it. It is that Croatian Armed Forces have 3 branches. This means the Croatian Army, Croatian Air Force and the Croatian Navy. It is particularly important in this part of roles and aviation in other cases, meaning not those purely military purposes, related to protection and rescue actions. And it is also especially necessary for the Croatian Navy to be part of the coast guard function and to protect the Croatian Adriatic, the economic belt and all those situations that unfortunately happen to us. That we do not have the strength and resources, the Italian fishermen enter our territorial waters uninterrupted. We know what our options are, and in this sense we may need to think about one, two corvettes that we should have, which can sail at any time and operate in all situations. So, purely in terms of protecting Croatia's economic interests on the Croatian Adriatic. It's not about threatening anyone else, it's about what's needed because, I say, it's about that part and the functions and the Coast Guards and all this other stuff. Therefore, we are pleased to say, finally, that a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will finally be adopted and therefore the Croatian Party's Club of Rights insists that these deadlines set for certain stages of modernisation must certainly be implemented. And in this part, a special report on how and how the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should also be submitted every year when the report is submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70152	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70153	The incorrect quote is from counterpart Kovacevic, who has kept repeating here for years that there has been no reform of the Armed Forces in recent years. Normally it's impossible in 2 minutes to say what's been done, but I'll try to specify the most important things. The number of members of the defence ministry has been reduced from 44 to 25 thousand. It's always the hardest part of the reform. The number of sectors in the Ministry of Defence has been reduced, the number of chamber commanders, the number of guard brigades has been transferred from the Ministry of Defence to the Chief Staff. In terms of modernisation, the first phase of... the program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The equipment of command-communication systems began, another rocket gunner was created, a small anti-mining ship, etc., etc. Therefore, counterpart Kovacevic's claims that there has been no reform in the past five years, not only are they incorrect but they are completely pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70154	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70155	Mr. President, it is quite incorrect what Mr. Kovačević said that the City of Varazdin sold the land and what was given him, former military facilities and that it was not a purposeful management. In fact, the full truth is that the City of Varazdin defiled the Ministry of Defense in such a way as to arrange an entire military facility and give land for the construction of military dwellings. And to add that the town of Varazdin is the only Croatian city that has all received military facilities in 2 years re-designed and brought to a peaceful, or civil purpose. Among other things, one of these lands, a former military shooting range was named the best economic zone in Croatia this year. In 2 years, we have created the best small business zone in Croatia, Col. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70156	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70157	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Department of Defense, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. So when we talk about this plan as it is more or less indicated here for the period 2006, 2005 can first be said or the first of which should start in that period in 2006, 2005. Croatia should not expect any foreign threat. So Croatia is also expecting this period in 2006-2015 a relatively peaceful period which could certainly not be said for our neighbours. First of all, I think of Serbia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially if SFOR, or KFOR, withdraws from those areas. In our neighborhood, if I'm not mistaken, there's still almost 30 thousand soldiers who are engaged there under the international flag. With the task, clearly, to ensure, how do I express myself, a peaceful distinction in these areas. Whether this will happen remains to be seen, but it certainly depends on the future of the Armed Forces in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I said, I repeat myself that Croatia no longer poses any threat to any of our neighbours, although Croatia is making the biggest trade in goods on the territory of those neighbouring countries, the largest commodity surplus, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, almost a billion dollars, with Serbia if I'm not mistaken, we have a surplus of almost 150 to 200 million dollars, a $100 million circus in Macedonia, etc. and all this says that Croatia and its neighbours must lead a maximum, honest cross-border policy. Secondly, I would like to say that the Croatian army in the gross social product at this time has been participating between 1.7% and 1.9% of gross social product. We all agree that it would be ideal to say 2, 2, 1, 2.2%, but it should also be said that the military is significantly less represented in the budget of the Republic of Croatia than the other NATO armies. It is clear that 1.7% or 1.8% of Croatia's gross social product of 30 billion euros is not the same thing as 1.7% or 1.8% of the gross social product of 200 billion euros or 300 billion euros in one Netherlands. So the Croatian Army or the Croatian Army budget can be allocated to a maximum of about 600 million dollars a year in one not much larger Netherlands that can be 10 times more and that is where we come in some way to the sustainability of this military apparatus. Fortunately, it was the period when the Croatian state for the military or all that went with the military war, etc., as was the case in the period '92, '95, '96. it also had to allocate 30% of its budget revenues. So let's say for the 20 billion kuna budget in '93. Or '94. for the purposes of refugees, military, etc. There were also six and seven billion kunas, and sometimes we wonder why some social rights, pensions, etc. were abolished. It is clear that we have paid dearly for some of the delusions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's space, but what do I mean? Croatia is not threatened by any danger from our neighbours and we must not clearly spend more than those quotas that are in some way common in the European Union. Croatia, if it wants to reduce its costs, must professionalise its army, I hold on to no more than 14,000 soldiers with civilian personnel. In my court, Croatia should go to professional military service as soon as possible, because this civil service military service thing doesn't make any sense to me anymore that these young men are serving military service at telephone stations or in those post offices and you can finally imagine getting a nice and leave or what it's called rewarding. All of us who were in the army can simply be surprised at that and look at it with unbelief. When I received the invitation, I received a call for Kosovo Mitrovica and then my mother went to the national defense for why her son was sent to Kosovo, and all his friends were going through Slovenia, in Dalmatia and so on, and then he told her in folk defense about: "Mario, let your son of the world see." And so I ended up down in Kosovo. But what am I really up for? That the Croatian Army means professionalising as soon as possible. Secondly, if this happens to cities, municipalities, the state will be in a relatively quick position to place these military facilities that are immobilized to function today. It doesn't matter if it's Varazdin, whether it's Pula, whether it's Zagreb, whether it's Split or a fifth city. So the point is that these objects are placed as soon as possible in office as possible because practically without them there will be no gentlemen or attract relevant capital. Clearly, it shouldn't, it shouldn't mean that anything should be sold, but also without launching certain processes will be doomed to a lot of things. So I stand for 12,000 professional soldiers, 2 thousand civilians, not 16 military personnel, 2 thousand civilians, 2 thousand voluntary handcuffs. So instead of 20 grand, we're proposing 14 to 16 grand. The fact is that one Switzerland has its own army that has avoided all these unfortunate Balkan wars I, II. The world war, what happened to us in the 1990s, doesn't occur to her again to abolish the military, which will say that Croatia also needs one small operational, professional, etc. A contingent which clearly will not interfere with other people's affairs but will be the only dams against the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Full protection will make Croatia clear once it joins NATO alliance. This will most likely be there somewhere in 2008 which is not very encouraging because probably before 2010, Croatia will not enter the European Union. What we cannot accept, however, is that 8%, on page 5, of the military personnel will be engaged, or ready to engage in international military operations. That means somewhere between a thousand, about 800, or a thousand soldiers. I think it is a slightly unacceptable figure higher than at this time of material possibilities of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that can be considered, this material Republic of Croatia at this time is difficult to endure. There is no doubt that Croatia must participate on the other hand in certain peacekeeping missions that are clearly under the auspices of the United Nations. That's right now. At this time we have nearly 150 soldiers outside Croatia, at the end of this year we will have about 180 soldiers from Afghanistan further, but I think a greater burden than 200, 250 soldiers Croatia can hardly bear. We are all against the fact that the army is clearly going to Iraq and the same thing that needs to be respected on the other hand is the fact that since '92. '95. On the ground of the Republic of Croatia there were also 8 and 9 and thousands of members of international forces and that role in, as I would say to the world community today, Croatia must return to international forces or communities. But I still hold that more than 250 soldiers, and that is somewhere around 200 million kunas on an annual scale hardly for Croatia to take over. Clearly, I agree, we need to build an air force of limited numbers, we must not fall into the subordinate position of one of NATO's Italy, Slovenia, Austria. Normally, we're no super force, and we have to keep that in mind. Croatia must have something called the Navy that will take control of the so-called so-called Navy. fishing, ecological, economical belt. It could not have been declared before, but after Italy and Slovenia declared some of their zones, the epicontinental belts that Slovenia certainly does not belong, I think Croatia should do so, or declare one such belt. As for non-classified reserves, it will count to 40,000 members, which is probably fine, as well as their non-inviting to exercises, although perhaps once in three or four years, these reserves could somehow be "congregated". What tomorrow will be the operational force of the Croatian Army is expressed on this page 8. To not quote all of this now, these are the meanings in that level of rapid response means one motorized company, a special action company with parts of the Marine infantry, genders and service combat support, a platoon of engineers, etc. And a total of up to 10% of the activities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be held at this stage of readiness. That I think is at least correct. For the end, there is no European country that sets out in 2006 a small part of the gross social product for armed forces from the Republic of Croatia, that is true. I think it's commendable. On the other hand, however, armed forces are not just consumption. If we have a development, it's a kind of progress. Unfortunately, Croatia has destroyed its military production and so much if this pile happens, say, of these cops or AMVs, etc., so these other combat vehicles I want to believe that Croatia will be ready to take over and produce parts or parts of equipment such as the Poles, Hungarians, Czechs who also buy this war weapon from these renowned world companies. This has already been discussed, and this should be absolutely insisted. Today in one business journal, the title came out that up to 30% of police officers would be produced in Croatia. Otherwise, the cop is this spire, the Daimler Dormouse owned by General Dynamics of the United States. Otherwise, it has this headquarters in Austria, and this AMV eight times eight that produces patricium is from Finland. The price of these vehicles is also interesting. Of course, the more they're ordered, I don't think we're gonna be greedy here. The price is lower and the less they are ordered, the more the price will be, but it should be absolutely insisted that part of that production in future for their war component behave in the Republic of Croatia. If we have such an approach then it can be development and progress not only of the armed forces but also of the countries as a whole, meaning the restoration of the military industry that has been likely over the past decade because of imports, sometimes bordering corruption almost consciously destroyed. So that's exactly what I'm up for. Finally, let us put into office the economy as many of these military facilities as possible from Pula down to Dubrovnik, try to develop part of that production, control consumption at 2% of gross social product, do not crash our troops into international military missions above a certain number, or although the debt of the international community should be returned and trained by the military and for certain pension actions, I do not know the protection of the coast, etc. And let's get as far away from it as possible before that mandatory military deadline because it turns into one cartoon. Finally, we see here on page 68 that's the military's involvement in the gross social product. In 2005, it was 1.79%. In 2006, this year 1.71%), 2010. 2%. To be honest with me between the military and the school, I will always choose before, looking forward to giving more for other purposes, but I am sure that the military component will also have to be given proper attention in the future. The war is behind us, there will be no more aggression. The mistakes that were made today are witnessed by Manolić, Bilandzic, etc. are past and today is the right time to reform and armed forces. So, the IDS will support it, but we really suggest that someone with the amendment might influence that 8% of the total land component can't find no God-given tomorrow in some peace missions because the financial country can't take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70158	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Cain said a few inaccuracies, I'll look back at two. He said we paid dearly for the error of politics towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, and now he finally mentioned two names. I'd say we pay dearly for the delusions of exactly the kind of politicians who ignore the Homeland War Declaration. And the second is he said there's no danger from the east anymore. I think that's incorrect. The Serbian Radical Party, which is the strongest single parliamentary party in Serbia, continues to deny the western borders of Serbia, Virovitica-Carlobag.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70160	Honorable representative Jozo Radoš corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70161	It is incorrect that colleagues of Cain that no European country singles out for armed forces less than the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia with its 1.6 and slightly gross social products as much as the defence ministry's 2005 budget belonged to the upper home of countries with the exemption for armed forces. Many transition countries started with percentages below 1% ten years ago and today there are European NATO member states that single out less than 1% for armed forces so that the Republic of Croatia with 1.6% is actually located in the upper home of countries that single out part of the gross national development product, or for the total armed forces, or the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70162	The HSLS Club is a respected representative of Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70163	Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the Department of Defense, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. "I'm going to duck a pair of whites" is old Latin maxes. "If you want peace, prepare for war." Today we would have it in global peacetime... could convince and say if you want peace then have the armed forces needed to maintain peace, that is to say, the organisation of the armed forces and the entire or environmental civil society that peace can be preserved and that peace becomes something that is not only dependent on the internal organisation of society but also on international factors or on the international relationship of forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is quite certain that this longer-term, I would say a more systematic plan for the development of the armed forces in a way that the final Croatian army is transforming from the army that has been established, which has actually been solidified in the war, so from one army to a completely peaceful army, and what does not need to be forgotten is the fact that some demobilization in this sense should not mean the demoralisation of the army so that any demobilization or conversion of a warrior into a peacetime army should not also mean demoralisation in that sense that the military does not meet either less or less drawn targets when it comes to the overall security of the state. What is quite certainly acceptable but also noticeable also immediately towards... in this document, from the fact that it is a set of good wishes, that it is a high set of objectives, that it is normative acts or normative mechanisms that are sometimes and difficult to obtain, but on the other hand, we must immediately recognise the existing level of funding, and the projection that we will finance up to 2% or just 2% of gross domestic products is not always in correlation or relatively or not always proportionate to the highly set objectives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not sure, and we at the club are not sure that the total of 8.8 billion kunas will be enough for these ambitious plans, so we would say sometimes for the normative optimism that radiates out of this text. I think that turning mainly into one of the most sensitive areas is therefore about, in some way, converting competences or maybe some kind of change of competence in human resources and, of course, operational efficiency and military readiness, which is always the most difficult thing to achieve. We know that whatever the equipment is that the organization is, after all, the human factor or the availability of human resources is the most important. So we're not sure that this level of separation will be enough in particular, given what we can say about the initial obsolescence, the lack of equipment, the poor equipment, and so we can say at this point and the lack or sloppy organisation in some segments. It is therefore good to develop and support certain, developing certain military capabilities here. In order to provide clear financial frameworks, however, the dynamics of achieving the objectives outlined are not certain that, in the existing proportions or parameters, this can be achieved financially. Once again, I point out that it is good to think in some ways about changing the necessary competences or developing abilities. We believe that the capabilities of both the priority and the priority indicated here are timely availability of power, the ability to command and control, the ability to exploit information space, the ability to deploy power and mobility in the field of operations, the efficiency in the engagement of forces, sustainability and the ability to implement... surgery and the ability to survive and protect forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is in this order well-placed and in some way in this tax system that it should be kept in mind, therefore, that precisely because it is moving from one side, from one army organisation to another organisation in the peacetime that this will be difficult to achieve. Similarly, we have already advocated that the military should be fully professional, therefore, a professional composition and that, of course, it can rely on voluntary staffing or voluntary handbooks and contracting, a contractual reserve where we believe that far more could have been achieved by now or that, when it comes to these human resources, there is no need to wait too long and that, in some way, the ability, organisation of voluntary handbooks and the conversion of part of the army into a contractual reserve, it is already possible to examine, test on certain exercises or on certain organisational forms of which, of course, the Ministry of Defence will say the final word. It is good, therefore, that in this document the development tasks primarily rest in the fields of human resources, military education, only then material resources and logistics systems, because any material resources, any kind of well-organised logistics and doctrines and training is nevertheless the capacity and competence of human resources something that is of first-class importance. It is also good in our opinion that military education here is based on new settings primarily for the civilian education system, more so that in some way the military or military training should not be part of the segregated system. It should be an integral part of any civil, civil education system mainly of higher education in the Republic of Croatia. We are particularly pleased as a party that has always supported and advocated a system of education and science that has introduced a particular chapter of research and development. We must understand or perhaps go back 25 centuries and remember Plato, who said that the guardians of the state are not only warriors who are at the borders but that the guardians of the state are above all, and those who educate these warriors or guardians, that they are, therefore, those who, in some way, are the security of a state, are at rest on that stage, on the synergy of those who guard the borders and those who are thinking about education, education and education, so today we would say science or scientific system in one country. It is good, therefore, that the Croatian military school will continue to educate and train military personnel with this, of course, that special attention will be paid to participation in scientific and research projects, which we believe today is condiocio sini qua non only organization but also competence of military staff. There's a lot of talk about development, equipment, modernization. We think that just out of date technology, and we can say a little bit of already devasted resources, that thing or urgency, the premise of the whole thing, and so we think that this should start as soon as possible. It is good that as a key, operational capacity in this course of the transformation of the education system, the response to the security and challenges that stand before the military today and it is equally good that it states that the organisational personal structure is actually something that is in line with the quality equipment of the Armed Forces. We believe that these two kinds of development of the Armed Forces are the most important. It was good and it had to be talked about earlier that some of these might not be clear to me from the whole document, so I might also ask for answers to see if the 8.8 billion kunas will find funds from this part of the property management, or if the property management will still give us additional funds. As a representative of the previous council, I advocated the use of former military facilities as well as those that were completely abandoned, unconditional, untapped, and those who may have been partly military. But actually the right functions were no longer, they lost or we could use them in a much better way. Speaking of which, I can mention an example of the City of Varazdin where I think there was just this happy connection between available former military facilities or military complexes in the city itself and I would say the able-bodied city administrations that turned these former military facilities and re-designed them, we can give them that kind of civil purpose, but on the other hand, it also defiled the MORH for their particular needs, or the needs of the military. So we think better governance would not only say military property now, but, otherwise, property owned by the state could also raise additional funds for the development of the Armed Forces. HSLS will support such a plan for the development of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70164	Thank you. HDZ club respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70165	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ Club stresses at the beginning that it is a quality and important document that will certainly provide a good basis for the long-term development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the period until 2015. With this finding, what is important is that many other independent military experts and experts agree, and therefore, let me begin by quoting one of them who really represents in this area the long-term planning of the development of the NATO Armed Forces. I will quote Mr. Frank Boland's director for NATO planning forces on the long-term development plan of the Republic of Croatia's Armed Forces, which in the review of the report highlighted the following. The long-term plan of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia was assessed by a good document. It's an important finding that doesn't have any policy. The main virtue of the long-term development programme is that it realistically demonstrates the situation in the Armed Forces and provides a good analysis of the necessary measures to modernise the Armed Forces. When developing a long-term development programme, what is important is also taking into account the costs of maintaining new military equipment, etc. “life span” which up to the date were mainly not elements of planning, and in any case for complex combat systems whose life span sometimes lasts ten or twenty years is an important item. It also points out that some programmes may be insufficient but that there are clearly identified financial assumptions for the implementation of the most important equipment programmes of the Republic of Croatia's Armed Forces in the coming period, and that is the first and I would say the most important finding that is related to the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Another important thing I want to point out at the outset is the Ministry of Defence's decision that this important document is still to be given to relevant professional expert reviews. That's good, I'd say an important step that deserves recognition. In this sense, the Zagreb Economic Institute has made a review of this document and what the institution could do is quality and refers to the projection of macro-economic parameters related to the growth of gross national income during this period as well as planned allocations in the state budget for the needs of the Ministry of Defence. And this document and this review also represents I would say good and strong support for the long-term Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The following assumptions were used, this is known but we can stress the real economic growth rate extrapolated for 2006, 2010 is estimated at 4.1% and in 2011, 2015, at 4%, by taking the relevant GDP diflators as a measure of the average inflation rate at the national economy level for the period 2006, 2010. And through these adjustments were indeed obtained I would say reliable, predictable financial amounts which will be in the mood of the Ministry of Defence certainly with the internal restructuring of this defence budget, will thus be provided with the necessary, important means for modernising the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia according to the defined programmes. It also noted in the review that the review does not affect the definition of missions and tasks, which is certainly normal, but I would say in the next step it will be good in addition to that financial expert analysis for this second military review of such basic, important strategic documents for each country. And in any case, I hope that's what happens in the future. Because these kinds of jobs have also contributed to strengthening these institutions. The Economic Institute, with its knowledge, expertise, but also with regular reviews of such important documents, develops a certain kind of specific knowledge that it has not had so far. I certainly believe that this type of engagement can also be useful when it comes to some important assumptions that these projects and programmes could be realised, and they are related to the field of certain technological knowledge and certainly to the future of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute should not be a surprise. The review, as pointed out in the document itself, is based on the estimated unit values for the purchase of a particular type of equipment taken over from the MRLs. And that is the basis for reviewing the financial parameters of this long-term programme. So you would conclude very simply the following. This document is so reliable, so predictable to the extent that reliable and predictable financial items are financial frameworks intended for each of the individual programmes. We propose in the future that these financial amounts related to concrete programmes are also delivered to the Croatian Assembly in aggregate form, not entering into certain details of each complex project and programme. But that part deserves me to say attention in the future. The document stressed in the introduction that the long-term programme is based on a series of projects and programmes that should not only provide the desired, defined or declared military capabilities, but should contribute to the activation of a significant part of the Croatian industry, Croatian economy, I do not want to talk about the military industry and the military economy for various reasons. But preparations for complex programmes require long-term, continuous separation for training institutions that will lead to the modernisation of such complex programmes and projects, the financing of cold programmes, cold drives, researcher financing and that part are certainly dedicated to this long-term programme of special attention. Something in general about long-term planning problems. Certainly they are present today in one quite different I would say frame than it was at the time of the Cold War when these time horizons, I would say allowed and justified, were bound by a period of 10, 20 years etc. Furthermore, today the change in the global security scene is so great that it must be monitored not only by long-term programmes, but also by the flexibility of all those involved in the production of complex weapons and military equipment systems. And it is known to those who deal with these problems that a whole series of new technologies has been introduced in this regard and in management, and in the development of infrastructure in order to develop, produce, and install complex combat systems as quickly as possible. That kind of infrastructure also I think we need to build. She's been given some attention. Certainly everything that is happening today on the global security scene changes and the perception of priorities and I think that what is in this document is acceptable and good and priorities of the modernisation of the Croatian Armed Forces must be tied to full support, full functionality, but full security of all those employees, professionals of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who participate in extremely important, responsible, difficult and risky peace operations. And that support to these people in these tasks deserves our not only political attention but certainly also priorities in the equipment. I think it is clear and therefore this document certainly has its own I would say freshness and a good feeling for what is today a security priority, given what was previously said that the Republic of Croatia is not threatened for various reasons by any direct security threat from our closer environment. Certainly developing and training part of the economy, but I also stress some scientific research institutions in order to be able to support these programmes is very important and deserves attention. Without that part I would say there is no modern economy, because it is known that all the most developed technologies, organizational skills, management, as well as many things that today are related to modern education managers practically stem from military knowledge, military disciplines etc. Between a series of programs, I might look back on just some that I think are very important. And in any case, they need to give the ability to light foot soldiers in the event of a strong enemy armored force. The anti-arming systems certainly represent a means that had a very important place in the defensive Homeland War. These systems and the ability of Croatian science to participate in the modernisation of these complex guided rocket systems was remarkable. It was, I would say, very high, but unfortunately it happened in 2000 that many or some of these important programs were then without any excuse stopped. The results of these improvements are modernization as I have said several times, and I will now highlight the world's leading companies in the field of guided missile systems such as REJTIN, etc. This points to the following. That complex systems especially deserve missile continuity in development, financing, in particular continuity in the development and financing of their infrastructure. Certainly in your or our joint document of the long-term development programme, special attention and place deserve also anti-aircraft defence systems, needles, arrows, etc. Certainly when it comes to modernising these systems as planned. For arrow 10 in 2010, it should be kept in mind that the cold drive for future operators of these development complex programmes is financed by certain activities because the start of the modernisation of the new programme after the break-up, after the departure of people is indeed complex, risky and uncertain. Certainly, the HDZ Club holds that it is an important basic document for the long-term development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and therefore gives it full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70166	Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen assistants, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to make a few principled remarks concerning this document. This document was set up as a document adopted by the Croatian Parliament with the Law on Defence in the spring of 2002. It's been over four years, and we just now have this document on the table, so I think that for one such document as it is of strategic importance we can't lose for more than four years. The document is late, and I think it's also a late full process of reforming the Armed Forces. From this data we see that the first phase of the reform was not implemented, and it was clear that this was the concept that we were determined to start the second phase of the reform immediately after the first phase of the reform. The number of members of the Armed Forces of active soldiers, military personnel has been reduced by 2,000 more than planned, but therefore the number of military officers and tenants whose social conditions and attractiveness of abandonment of the Armed Forces remained higher in 2000. That's absolutely not good. Of course, it would be good if the plan for the reduction of both military officers and tenants had been met, and then the difference had been filled with young soldiers, and then they would not face the fact that it has been repeated in the Croatian Parliament for years in the Croatian public, as the average age of Croatian soldiers is 33 and over. And these very black diplomatic announcements from Brussels that due to the delay in armed forces reforms, our membership in NATO is at stake. As much as we can, namely the dynamics of this membership, as much as we can expect to get an invitation in 2008, and the question is whether or not we will succeed and it is a shame that, now let aside the political circumstances that affect it, we have actually come into a position that those who do not want for some reason that the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of NATO as soon as possible and does not become thanks to the failures we have made. That's absolutely not good. NATO membership is not isolated from our fundamental strategic provisions, which are membership in international integration. It has a significant impact on the speed and dynamics and quality of membership in the European Union, therefore it is not good, but we know that in this sense there is virtually no communication strategy and this one that exists formally for the European Union does not seem to give a special result, and this strategy that would bring the Croatian public closer to the membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO as something desirable, useful for the country, such as it almost does not exist. So these are the things that I thought at the beginning of the talk about this very important document that I should warn the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament. As for the document itself, of course, it would be good if such documents were adopted by consensus in the Croatian Parliament. I will ask a number of questions here, and then with regard to the answers to these questions will be the final and final position of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party. It's not enough 15 minutes to discuss this document. This document is a very important, strategic document. It's a shame it happens in front of a dozen representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is nominally weighing 15 billion kuna, and given its long-term effects on the country's security and on all other processes that occur in the country and its importance is both greater and indeed it is a pity that it is happening in this way. Obviously, if we don't have a bombist statement, if there's no big policy, if there's no conflict, then as hard as it is, it's not really interesting, and it doesn't matter, of course, that one undesirable mark of our political life. I'd like to say something about these basic proposals sent here, first of all, that the Armed Forces have 16 thousand active soldiers, 2,000 military officers and tenants. There's a big deal waiting for us, 4000 of them at this hour are too many and 6 thousand contractual reserves. First of all, I'd like to welcome it to volunteer handbooks, but I'm sorry we didn't do it long ago without the need for that segment, we're losing energy, we're wasting money, we're wasting time. We could have done this because we had comparative advantages compared to the rest in 2002, 2003. I am a combat advocate of this, knowing what the international environment of the Republic of Croatia is, what perspectives are. I'm sorry we lost so much energy on that segment, and of course I'm glad we're going towards it, but I think 2009 is absolutely very far in that sense. Many countries in Europe, meanwhile, have done so as we think about it and have achieved significant gains in the organisation of our defence system. It is not clear here how much military service there will be in this voluntary service. Financial data says it's six months. I don't think that's enough. It's supposed to be a future base to fill up the Armed Forces. Six months of training in these circumstances when we have, voluntarily, the obligation to serve is one story, and when we create a professional army, and this is the beginning of filling and rejuvenationing the Armed Forces to professional soldiers, then six months for the challenges they will face, it will absolutely not be enough and I suggest that, in this sense, in this document and of course in its realization, think about it. I must also say that we are talking here about suspending the military term. It's a game of words. The military deadline can only be suspended. We're talking Colloquial about abolishing mandatory service, of course no one can lift the military term as something that has been permanently abolished. So it's just a game of words so it doesn't work out, in a way, for this syntagma that's common in the Croatian public. So it's clear in that sense too. As far as the contractual reserve is concerned, which is not small, which is 6 thousand people, I absolutely don't understand what that concept actually means. It's a very small cost of a thousand and 708 kuna per soldier. The question is how such a soldier who will be scheduled is intended for operations outside the Republic of Croatia for such small money can be trained for such operations. This concept of voluntary reserve, the contractual reserves should be explained a little bit to see what it's really about. It's not really a backup. A guard that's so small compared to the regular force isn't reserve. It saves something that ensures you, that you have a security supply for some extraordinary things, not for regular tasks, and that's why I'm also worried about the fact that these 40,000 unclassified reserves aren't actually going to be trained at all, so it's actually a question of whether we, as far as unexpected, but potential conventional threats and attacks are concerned, are we even having a reservation at all. The contractual reserve is not reserved in a strict sense of the meaning of that word. Speaking of finances, we here in the Croatian Parliament yesterday had a rebalance on the state budget in which the Ministry of Defence lost 40 million kuna and its share in the budget, in the gross national product according to that data that was delivered here yesterday was 1.63% of the gross national product. The question is how, by what dynamics, are we going to be able to achieve that amount? In 2006, which is one of the years of this long-term plan is already behind us, and we in the implementation of the 2005 budget had a share of staff costs over 74%. What about who knows what this is about, what this relationship in some desirable frameworks knows is that it's an absolutely bad structure of the defence budget. The question, therefore, is how these financial plans will be achieved and the dynamics of reaching 2% of the gross national product will not be easy. It's going to need some segments that are equally important, all segments of the administration are important, something to take away. Which will be segments, of course, these questions cannot be answered by this document. But I warn that in that sense, there will certainly be constant difficulties. Of course, it's impossible to enter now into price hike dynamics, etc., but if it were at this level, it would be if it increased to 0.4% of the defense budget, then it's somewhere around a billion kuna, with today's amount of our gross national product. In 10 years, it's 10 billion kunas. The question is, of course, whether or not we will be able to get into 2% immediately but only in 2010 to achieve this financial plan. As far as human resources are concerned, I must say that the planned age structure of the new Croatian soldiers, which will be as old as 33 years old as possible, is not in line with the usual age policy. A soldier at 33 is too old a soldier. He's already too deep in the Armed Forces system and he's too old to, or much harder for him to go the other way if he's not in the army anymore. Usually the upper limits are the years when you can be a professional soldier without going further, therefore, in development towards the officer and officer, 27 or 28 years. Why was such a relatively high age limit chosen? Because when you're 27 years old if you won't be in the system anymore you have a chance to start almost a whole new professional life. At 33 years of age, it's a little more complicated. Therefore, I do not understand why this, in my opinion, is a high upper limit. It says here that up to 35 years, so the situation is even more unfavourable in that sense. It says here that by 2015 we will have 10% women in the Armed Forces, but as active soldiers. Of course, it can't be written like that. This should, of course, be more than that, but it is impossible to set it as a final goal in such a way than it should be set as something that has almost already been achieved. The countries best standing in this regard, which have professional soldiers, therefore, women as professional soldiers in exactly the same status as men, one Norway, for example, today after a long-term policy in this sense there are only about 8 or 9% of women who are really soldiers, and not like us, that we have active military persons women, but they are not actually soldiers but are only in some decorative places, and only nominally active military persons. So that goal will not be easy to achieve. You should try to set up mechanisms, and put it like something that's already done, it'll be a little harder to realize. It takes all the assumptions that this could happen, too. Speaking of the structure of individual branches, I'm skeptical of keeping the branch command. It's one command link more than necessary, especially if the Armed Forces are shrinking. Its meaning is getting smaller, so it's almost unnecessary. And in terms of the structure of certain branches, I want to conclude here that the development of a combat helicopter or its acquisition is not planned here. The existing combat helicopters we have, they are long out of service, they will be written off, and perhaps they are very important, especially for these operations and for these missions that are scheduled for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. There's no supply of modern missile anti-aircraft systems. The ones we have now are low-level systems. So, in that sense, we will leave our skies, except, of course, through these multi-purpose super-sonic planes completely unprotected and we should know the same. And what about the Croatian Navy, when it comes to it, is not happy that we are definitely saying goodbye to our submarinery. One country that has such a developed coast, such a large coastal line, such a large territorial sea, especially with the declaration of an economic belt, I absolutely think that it should work or try to keep the elements of the submarine system in any way. I know it's expensive, that something needs to be given up, but I have to say I'm not happy about what happened. And it seems to me that if indeed the Ministry of Defence, or the Armed Forces, will take over the work of the Croatian Coast Guard, the law has not yet been passed. So this here is just a wish. Then I think that the number of patrol ships inside the territorial sea and beyond the coast should be greater than planned, that's what the daily need is that difference from some things, some of the instruments that we plan to obtain here, which may actually be very, very rarely or at all used. The Navy, in its function of protecting the day-to-day protection of our coastal sea, the territorial sea of the economic belt, is something that is of crucial importance and I believe that its representation with both ships and other and third species should be greater than in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70168	Thank you. In 14 and 6 timed out for an individual debate of 10 minutes on this subject. For the SDP club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70169	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I want to express my satisfaction at first that we are discussing today a long-term programme for the development of the armed forces because I think it is one of the important national issues, but also the development issues of the Republic of Croatia and the issue of the conditions in which this debate takes place, we can probably achieve even a political consensus. Allow a few words only about past times. Armed forces have played an important role in the Homeland War and there is a definitive and political and social consensus around this fact. Unfortunately, the same armed forces in the wider environment of the Ministry of Defence and an even wider political environment during this same period are very often, even too difficult as a front for a large number of abuses and illegal alienation of budgets. This is among the many other reasons why today when we are discussing a long-term development programme of 15, 16 years after the establishment of the armed forces we approach the planning of the armed forces aware of the facts of their very modest equipment and we can only regret the money spent in the 1990s for the needs of the armed forces which is not seen enough in the armed forces themselves, but is therefore seen in very fairy-tale properties or other different assets of some former officials or privileged suppliers of the Ministry of Defence from that period. The long-term programme for the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, according to the document, was followed by a strategic defence review adopted in September 2005. Even more precisely and clearly and this strategic review of defence and the long-term development programme is a continuation or continuity of the reform and transformation processes of the armed forces launched in 2000. This document, unlike the parts of a pretty bad report on the readiness of the defence system and the implementation of human resources and the overall state of the armed forces that we also discussed in the Assembly, discussed this document in the Assembly, is of a much better quality. Such an assessment stands no matter what is possible, and also the necessary parts of the document read extremely critical of what I will try on behalf of the SDP. First of all, I think that places of some great pleasure, and there is no less relaxation. What we miss most is that we do not have time for pleasure or relaxation, and we do not have much time to continue the reform process that has been defined through this long-term programme of development of the armed forces. First review. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Defence, is well behind the opening of this second stage of defence reform, which was also mentioned earlier. According to the existing plans in 2004, the transformation started in 2000 was to end, bring a system from 44,000 found to 27,000 staff and implement other changes. In parallel, strategic, development, legislative and operational preparations for the next phase planned for the period from 2005 onwards would be prepared. However, such dynamics are not respected. That's how it is, for example. Creating a strategic review launched in October 2003 and completed only in September 2005 The government and the ministry have, in some ways, stalled the Croatian public as well as partners. In the annual national programme 2004, the adoption of the strategic review was announced by the end of the calendar year 2004 and the long-term development plan until half of 2005. As we can see, it's not respected. This year's national programme for 2005, i.e. 2006 announced the adoption of a long-term development programme by the end of the calendar 2005 which is clearly not respected because I hope that we will now adopt this programme in half of 2006. Whether it is a conscious, deliberate difficulty with not quite an easy reform job or about the uncertainty and non-compliance of the responsible can only be speculated. However, what we cannot speculate on are the following claims and facts. This approach contributes to the loss of credibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. when it comes to relations with partner countries and alliances, the loss of credibility of Croatia is simplified by whom the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not meet its own obligations and objectives. Another important delay is not just a full fact that is worth noting and nothing to anyone. The delay and delay in reforms has its own clear price. So, for example. The long-term development plan envisions reaching the planned numerical size by 2009. However, the simple calculation shows that a one-year delay in the transformation and reduction of the system can be shown as a loss or as a cost of about 400 to 450 million and only as a direct cost of salaries and staff compensation. It is also quite uncertain that further dynamics of reform and transformation of the system. In the best case, in the second half of this year, we should follow the business of amending and supplementing the entire package of military-defense laws and a series of sublegal acts. Again, in the best version, a concrete realization would begin in the 2007 election year and we know how major and serious reforms are going through in that year. A series of reasons for the skepticism and the assessment that serious reform procedures in the defence system will not be in 2007 and that instead of a year and a half to two delays, the real delay will therefore be extended to a period of three years. Multiply that with the 450 million, and you'll see how much the taxpayers cost. This unrelenting political stance on non-acceptance of security and defence policies, namely one of the reasons why it is late in this business, can be argued with several facts. For example, in the spring of 2004, the most responsible in the defence system announced the abolition of the ability of the supersonic combat system and today it is one of the first priorities of modernising and equipping the armed forces. Also, in the summer of 2004, the Ministry of Defence and the basis of a study on professionalisation made it clear that there is nothing from military professionalisation and, today, in the long-term development programme, complete professionalisation is foreseen by 2009 and 2010, respectively. Thus, contradictions cause confusion and are the reason for these slow preparations or slow process of reform and development or delay in creating and thus the implementation of a solution to the development of the armed forces. Allow now and several possible critical remarks on this document. First they have some general or general levels. The impression is that the document is actually not exactly a real wish list and that the possibility of realising is more than just a questionable one. Possible example is the level of separation for defense jobs. By 2008, the defence budget was planned to drop to 1.67, then rise and in 2010 it will be stabilised at 2% of the gross social product. It is difficult not to notice that the problem we could easily call a square circle will be those who will have to ensure the realization of this document will not be very easy to implement. For example, for the total modernisation and equipment of HRZ over a ten-year period, it is planned to spend 2.8 billion and surface know-how, for example, that some other nations that have caught up with such jobs have spent quite more on the purchase of new fighter aircraft so that at least one squadron of flu aircraft should be spent, for example, around 3.5 billion kuna. 2 and 800 and 3.5 is not exactly the same amount. We also have some individual spordic maybe remarks. For example, due to a lack of understanding of the nature of defence and security affairs, I assume the plan states that the programme of conversion of non-perspective military facilities or real estate will provide some of the financial resources needed to equip and modernise the armed forces, which is actually one of the systemic errors. The plan clearly indicates which properties and facilities are unnecessary and unspective of the system but the problem remains the government in which to convert these properties and what to do with them in the future. It is also our claim that, for this reason, criticism of this document that the equipment and modernisation of the armed forces cannot rely on uncertain sources of funding because such properties can be marketed for good money or perhaps for less good money, which depends on market conditions and on some other conditions, but that the development of the armed forces, their modernisation and equipment must rely on certain sources, on the budget and on certain budgetary financing. We have another individual remark, it refers to the human component. In fact, right now what's most valuable is that they have armed forces is exactly the human component. All of this remains of no importance and all of this needs to be replaced to the greatest extent. What we want to warn about is the position of this human component or staff today at the beginning of this ten-year development period. According to our information, there is a serious devastation of this human component, people for various reasons abandon armed forces and armed forces and the defence system remain without the highest quality and most valuable and experienced people. That's why we think we need to stop the priority and introduce the criteria immediately. In reform processes, the knowledge and experience of existing staff whose escape from the system needs to be used without delay should be used. One way to do this should improve their material position. And that is why we are taking this opportunity to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence to immediately catch jobs this year and raise salaries in the armed forces. In fact, the latest increase was made in 2002, before that in 97 and from 2002 to today, you can imagine how lagging behind people from the defence system is compared to the wage growth that is happening in some other sectors. Only in such a way, by respecting all the other useful things contained in this long-term development programme, we think that it will become a reality, reality and that indeed after this ten-year period we will be able to talk about how we have created armed forces that will fully fulfil their function and be financially sustainable to the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70170	We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70171	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the Department of Defense, colleagues and colleagues. We have a very serious document, a proposal for the long-term development of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia or a translation of further training of the Croatian Army. The Croatian Army has passed several major jumps in its historic period. Let us first remember the creation of the Croatian Army at the beginning of Serbia's armed aggression when from nothing under the international arms embargo created the ultimate powers of not only regional proportions but also wider. Then the second great task came in 1998 when the war ended with the reintegration of the Podunov on January 15, 1998 and followed the first phase of the transformation or reorganisation of the war in a peaceful way to finance the system. A very painful stage that ended that year. They followed up in 2000 when, as counterpart Rados said, a very difficult task of reducing the number of members of the armed forces for military or war forces in peacetime was carried out over the next few years. And I would say that the fourth major historical phase of the Croatian Army is ahead of us. It is its long-term development into a solid, solid armed force that can carry out its tasks. This proposal is certainly a good basis for such a new phase of the development of the Croatian Army, and I think that these chapters briefly cover everything that should be said. These are: first, the mission chapter and the task of the armed forces in which the structure is processed, the deployment. Then another development goal. Finally, funding is enough to say what the plan has to do with achieving these famous 2% of gross national income, which is also NATO's recommendation and what some say is too much. I think it is too small because comparison with other armies at this time is not possible because other armies have been equipped for decades and the Croatian Army as we know it is only at the beginning of equipment with modern technical and technological achievements. So these 2% are really minimal in the growth and development phase of an army, and surely one day it will be able to reduce. And immediately I ask the question is it really possible to reach that target of 2% only in 2010? Shouldn't we be seriously behind the standards NATO and other international institutions require of us? But in any case, this proposal is high quality. He should be held and supported, and praises should no longer be spoken of. I'd just like to ask a few problems here or a few questions that I don't think are entirely covered in this proposal. In fact, this proposal definitely solves the development of the military by 2015, but I'm asking whether it is hitting good foundations for further development during this period. In other words, if after 2015 we will have enough human potential after 20, 25, 30 or 35 years of age, enough technical opportunities to meet international conditions not now that are harmless, peaceful, such as thank God are but what they may be in 30 years. And that's the task of this generation and this reconstruction. The reserve is now being created, which will be the basis of the reserve for the defence of the Republic of Croatia in 30 years. So I ask a question or I don't understand why there is, above all, one large category in these plans that guarantees the quality of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, which is its own war experience. I didn't see anywhere in this document that we were referring to our own war experience, to the personnel, someone here mentioned it that had experience in warfare, in governance, in organization. By giving up such personnel and unfortunately seeing that we have already given up most of the work we have amputated ourselves a very important lever in the development of the Croatian Army. These Earth War personnel of ours are invaluable for further development of the armed forces. They're recognised in international terms. We are happy to see a guest in training, military exercises with friendly countries and friendly and partners, and partner armies. We are happy to be seen at professional conventions where we are discussing the war strategy of the modern era because we have experience that others do not have and yet we have not built it verbally at least, and I hope in practice that we are in this document. What should also be said should be pointed out in a very large war-based operational experience of accompanying services, I will only say two sentences about health care. An integrated health system was organised which was then accepted at all the international meetings at which the system was discussed, so we led it to perfection according to international standards and today we neglected it, today it practically does not exist. For example, only personnel specialised in civil institutions do not do their job but sit in some places where their knowledge has not been used. But that's just one example. There's got to be more of those. A few words about missions and missions as it's called in this document. Basic missions and tasks should probably be expanded after all. The following are listed here: 1st protection of sovereignty, 2nd defence of the Republic of Croatia and allies, 3rd participation in response operations abroad, 4th construction of security and trust and 5th aid to civil institutions. If tasks are already in place, such details as assistance to civil institutions would probably be one of the tasks that should be particularly addressed are both assistance from the Croatian military or the wider armed forces to the economic and strategic development of the state. Mr. Secretary of State talked about it but I think it should be a special chapter because it is of particular importance because the Croatian Army and the wider armed forces can return much of the investment. If we connect them to the economy, if they are stimulated by production, maintenance, technical equipment and so on. It is not necessary to say here that the schedule of the Croatian Army in the territory other than military-strategic should also have economic objectives because it does not matter where a few hundred or a few thousand members of the armed forces will spend, for example, food products, where they will use catering facilities, where officers will live with their families and so on. So I ask the question is whether leaving some of the sites that are economical, demographic and strategic is completely, completely at low levels, such as Vukovar, Glina and some of our other cities. Here I would also mention the problem of a number of compositions in the composition of operational abilities. The figures presented are figures that surely meet our needs now in view of a relatively peaceful environment. I think relatively because there are still unresolved issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina, potential dangers, Kosovo, other potential dangers and other countries in the environment. But given the high awareness of the international organisation, unlike the '90s, when it will intervene in the event of some kind of threat, we can certainly be satisfied with this numerous situation. 16000 persons employed, 2,000 volunteers, 6,000 contractual reserves and 40,000 non-classified reserves. But when we look at the possibility of intervening with these forces within a certain period of time, which is the operating capacity system, then we have to ask one at least a small questionnaire. According to this plan, intervention within 24 hours is only possible with 10% power. So within 24 hours, we can count on about 2,000 active military personnel, which is absolutely insufficient. Within 30 days, we can count on high readiness, high preparedness. It's only 35% of the military personnel or about 6,000 members of the active military. That means only 30% of them within a month. Low-readiness forces mobilize 55% of the active military system, but within 30 to 120 days, I think it's absolutely insufficient and what I'm actually giving the biggest question or maybe a warning it's 40,000 non-classified reserve members mentioned by a fellow Radoš who don't have any exercises at all. What's a 40 000-seat reserve without any exercise? A reflection of such a structure is also in their place in the operating system. Namely, they can develop within 120 to 360 days. 360 days it's a year. Next thing you know, it's a time structure. I believe that the age structure of 33 to 43 years of officer soldiers is insufficient and now we're creating a reserve in 30 years in advance, and we can't do that with 2,000 handbooks as many as we're going to have. At the end of the last, but no less important in this Strategy should certainly be a special task, which is to strengthen the reputation of the Armed Forces, because the reputation of the Armed Forces, which is unfortunately reduced to the lowest level, means a significant link in the armed preparedness chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70172	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for my dear colleague, Chuljak. Here's your colleague, Chuljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70173	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the long-term development plan is the basis for the transformation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with forces that will be able to perform an entire spectrum of operations in the protection of national interests, but also within the collective defence system. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia should be built into forces which will be able to be engaged quickly and efficiently in any territory of the Republic of Croatia but also outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Powers that will be able to conduct operations for a long time under different combat conditions. In each and in its transformation of the Armed Forces, all the Armed Forces that face the transformation must be ready to meet numerous challenges. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have so far been mostly defensive and territorially oriented with a massive and outdated technique, stationary and command systems and infrastructure. In order to achieve the desired capacity, the long-term development plan also identified key areas for implementing the transformation, which are planning reform and such distribution of available financial resources in a way that balances in the financing of personnel, operations and modernisation of arms and military equipment. Investment in personnel through modern and new times and conditions adapted to training and education, the construction of a system of command and control, the equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with modern equipment and weapons and the abandonment of unspective infrastructure in order to create better living and working conditions and liberating available resources. In the long-term development plan, a whole series of measures have been planned to strengthen the capabilities of the Armed Forces to respond to threats to the armed forces of the population and territories of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of where these threats came from including global terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It also provides for a way that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will respond to threats with full spectrum of their capabilities, taking into account the opportunities of society and resources that can be allocated to defence. Of course it would be good if more resources could be allocated. The long-term plan presents the main features of the future structure of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I'm only going to single out some that I think are the main features. So we can also expect a reduction in the number of units, a reduction in the number of command levels, a constantly ready force. So professional soldiers who will always be ready for every challenge, military suspension and voluntary service, the introduction of a contractual reserve, a unique system of education,... a system of training and a unique logical system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Armed forces need to modernise this I believe that we hold all and professionalise in a way that will primarily serve Croatian national interests, and then the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will also be able to contribute to the overall capabilities of NATO as a single alliance and global security as an indivisible category in today's world. The optimal security of the Republic of Croatia will certainly be achieved through cooperation with other countries including membership in the European Union and NATO. In order to achieve these objectives, the long-term development plan should and should provide priorities on equipment and modernisation with clearly defined deadlines, giving them the necessary financial resources. In order to achieve full professionalisation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, the long-term development plan envisioned suspension of compulsory military service and relying on external logistics services. The suspension of compulsory military service would allow voluntary military service, thus creating conditions for the professionalisation of armed forces, but would not end the military obligation but would call on military bonds to take the oath and, in the event of need, be called on to train to defend their country. This is why the long-term development plan also foresees unclassified reserves and the possibility of increasing the defence potential to the needed number for the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Voluntary military service would make it possible for soldiers to join the service in harmony with the profession and the training for the conduct of their duties to the armed forces. In the long-term development plan, a non-spective infrastructure with clearly specified abandonment deadlines is defined, thus liberating a part of the financial resources invested in the perspective infrastructure that would serve to raise the quality of life and work in the military and, of course, in modernising the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I would like to say that it is good that the long-term defence plan provides for greater engagement of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in international military operations aimed at contributing to global security and stability and developing compatibility and interoperability with the partner countries involved in the NATO alliance. The plan describes the ways, deadlines and means needed to achieve these outlined objectives and I believe that by accepting this plan of armed forces of the Republic of Croatia through all that I have stated that the plan can and must become a guarantee to Croatia as before, as in the Homeland War, that the safety of the Republic of Croatia will never be compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70174	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It's time for my dear colleague, Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to start a little unusually this exhibition of mys with one question about where the Croatian Army went? In a translated sense where the term Croatian Army went missing and why is it deleted and now we call ourselves the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia? We came back to that famous Croatian genius. The Croatian Army was created in the Homeland War, created by volunteers in tennis shoes, and now, in this introduction, not a letter about the Homeland War, about volunteers, about traditions, about the foundations of the practically Croatian state. It's a little confusing, and it's saddening. And with all these shorts, new terms, and I also don't find much of an excuse. I will read to you only this first mission, the four major missions of armed forces are the protection of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the allies. What allies? Well, I think the job of the Croatian Army is primarily to protect the territory of the Croatian state and the Croatian people. Everything else can be additions, missions, and here it turns out that you are the most committed that this army, as you call it, will participate in the NATO Pact missions, etc., and this is to protect the Croatian state and the people, somehow, is in another plan. That's my impression. Why did he mention it in part, too, that his colleague Hebrang was abandoning this whole territorial principle? I do not think it is justified and that in some areas the Croatian army should be very accessible. This kind of elite unit I see is located in Delnice, and in my opinion it should be in Vukovar, as well as in Konavla. I can't accept an interpretation that no more threats from the east... I also believe that the facts of the day will confirm, Serbia's strongest political force continues to advocate the Western Serbian border as they say Virovitica-Carlobag. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't be blind to this and pretend it's a foothold, and that's why this whole development of our armed forces as you say should be based on these facts more than on how we're going to participate in international missions. The other day there was an article that was a little caricated on the subject, so he said we were turning the Croatian army into a winning army in the Homeland War in cop moments. Well, I wouldn't want it to ever... That's why I'm saying, I'm confusingly reading these texts and I just can't understand that the tradition on which the Croatian Army should be based is even in terms because it's a symbol. [[You don't understand.]] This people are very important symbols that I'm not saying that one term that was returned during the Homeland War, it was a Croatian domain, now it's gone. This kind of reserve that we've now heard about is what she's going to be able to do, how we can defend the state and the people if we don't have some training. Well, let's look up to Switzerland, and then all the residents go to some kind of training. So as I'm going to call, we're all military bonds are said to be called into the army so we don't even know what guns are and what they look like and what tactics are. Well, it has to be done systematically somewhere. I don't even have to admit this voluntary military service, because, you know, military service develops one patriotism, one self-awareness, one patriotism without which there is no defense of the country. I don't know why you left it all, I understand you need to go to the modern army, professionalization, but I believe that even with a professional army we should have a regular army. No volunteers but an army must be a duty, it is both a duty and an honor for every young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70176	Thank you, dear colleague... It's on behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Pecek for five minutes. [[You don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70177	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to say that we will not support this document in front of the HSS club because we think that it should regulate the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the long term, but it is not high enough to support it. The reason is that it was done in a partial way, in a single isolated and not in a systematic manner, and that it could be accessed previously was also needed to provide basic documents in the area of defence which should represent the basis for its adoption. In particular, I stress that the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia has not been adopted, and obviously we are working on a long-term development plan of the Armed Forces without a basic document called the Defence Plan of the Republic of Croatia, and I do not think it deserves that document to support it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The defence law, the military component of the defence system together with the civilian component, constitutes the defence system of the Republic of Croatia, and the defence system of the Republic of Croatia is part of the national security system. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Defence laws, fundamental documents in the area of defence are the defence strategy of the Republic of Croatia, military strategy and defence plan of the Republic of Croatia. The strategies are, but the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia, so the defence plan of this country has not yet been adopted, and so we are working without it a long-term development plan. We also note the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the term of office of 2003-2007 expressed the need to amend and adopt new strategies, namely the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy and the military strategy of the Republic of Croatia. To date, too, these documents have not been brought in, so we haven't even seen the proposal for these documents, we don't even know if they're being developed. By proposing this document, the Government of the Republic of Croatia demonstrates its determination only in the implementation of one part of the security and defence system of the Republic of Croatia, but it is not harmonised and unbalanced with other parts of the security and defence system, particularly not in line with strategic documents that have not been adopted, which are neither produced nor brought in such a way as not to have them in the form of a draft proposal, and not to mention again the most important document is the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia. In drawing up a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces, the document is called for a strategic defence review, however, it is not one of the fundamental documents in the area of defence. The HSS welcomes the attempt by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to arrange a plan for the development of the Armed Forces in the long term, but not in such a partial and isolated way, so I would even say "servant way". We have a feeling that we actually want to make out with the leadership of NATO or with some of the components of the European Union and at all costs. That's one of the facts that's confusing to me, so I'd be begging for it to be explained here in the Parliament. We are saying that during the first part of the planned period, we will develop capabilities that enable the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to be effectively involved in the NATO collective defence system, i.e. participation in the defence activities of the European Union, and by the end of the planning period, the largest part of the necessary overall capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be achieved by 2015. When a citizen, a taxpayer of the Republic of Croatia reads such a sentence, there can only be one conclusion, that we are developing the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of NATO and the European Union, not for our own needs, and obviously it should be completely different. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia should primarily be developed for their own, only then, for the purposes of alliances and organizations to which we wish to join. Another fact that we do not want to support such a document is also a formulation of how we Armed Forces will use it in international activities. The text of the proposal states that 8% of the active land forces will be engaged or ready to engage in international military operations. We believe that this formulation should be avoided because it can simply be interpreted as what it means. We believe that the text should be prepared or able to include what can be interpreted in a way that we ourselves will be looking for military operations in which members of the Republic of Croatia would actually represent cannon meat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70178	Thank you very much. The final word is the representative of the applicant, the esteemed colleague of Raboteg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary deputies who participated in this debate because I believe that all the contributions of the debaters were well-intentioned. And this shows in fact the interest of the Croatian public whose representatives you are for this extremely important component of state sovereignty. So, and I am glad that in this sense there is a consensus on the importance of the defence system and the defence capabilities of the functioning of the state as a whole. However, clearly, there are also some issues, and there are different views of this all together, which is understandable again on the other hand because the long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces is being adopted as a result of one transformation process. One process of comprehensive transformation, I would say, the Armed Forces, the defence system as a whole, which involves not only the transformation of the organization, the structure, but also the transformation in the way it thinks and looks at what it is, as it is achieved under the conditions, therefore, risk assessments and threats it is based on. Under new international circumstances, in processes here, computer integration, etc. So it's clear that many of us each have our own different priorities and our different views of this all together. So, I've tried to note some remarks and I'd say some decoded, some decidated claims and some questions to which I'm going to try to answer. Professionalization has repeatedly caused different comments. So we have comments in the sense that we are going too slowly, to those comments that say that this is something that leads to the destruction of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. I would say that we have tried to answer this question in one non-compromising way but in the only possible way, and that is to introduce a gradual professionalisation of the Armed Forces while keeping their growth options in line with the change in the security situation in space. We have also declared ourselves a state for Euro-Atlantic integration, so we often point out that joining NATO is an alliance and entering the European Union, that these are two sides of the same process. Since these are two sides of one compatible, therefore, as are compatible processes and as they are mutually supportive. How one initiative supports another because it means in both cases supporting democratic standards, supporting transparency, supporting the respect of some global threats in which we cannot be on the side. So in this regard, we have also assessed that Croatia is an active role in such integrations with a defence aspect, it is a NATO alliance. That this implies a new quality in security because it enables us to reduce defence costs on one hand. So we will very quickly demonstrate with one of our estimates how much defence costs are reduced if we give up a single automotive concept by which the Republic of Croatia must defend itself against any threat rather than by adopting, therefore, a collective defence system can very easily prove at the assessment of the defence costs that such concept releases the real economic resources of the Republic of Croatia for economic development and not just for defence costs. Therefore, it is, it is a single communication strategy. Issues and communication strategies towards NATO are being touched here. I accept that we haven't done enough here, that we need to do even more, but, therefore, I think it's a clear commitment to become, to pursue Euro-Atlantic integration and also to defend ourselves. In order for this to be possible, we must achieve certain military capabilities. These military abilities are not for the sake of being welcome or desirable in the NATO alliance but for the sake of ourselves. Because when we talk about key military capabilities, when we talk about, I'm going to quote them, just quote them, about the timely availability of forces. When we talk about the ability to command and control, when we talk about the ability to move and move forces, about efficiency in engagement, about the sustainability of forces and the ability to perform long-term operations, the ability to survive and protect forces. These are the key military capabilities that NATO requires, but we are also asking our military system to be as effective as possible. Therefore, with one rational use of the economic resources of the Armed Forces, the role required by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is achieved. So, I was going to say, we have a whole spectrum of remarks. From destroying the army to being too slow in reform. Yes, I agree that the view on the side can suggest that we are too slow in reform because we have allegedly declared that we should be sooner than we did, and this also refers to this long-term development plan of the Armed Forces. However, often, many times in regular contact with NATO experts, it is suggested that we do not bring programming documents at all costs just to comply with some of the deadlines that we have set for ourselves at the time we have not been able to counter all the problems we will encounter. And we're told, you'd better wait a little bit more than once to have all the analysis available that will allow you to make what you're planning sustainable, based on real economic indicators. And that is why we have made this long-term development plan today instead of perhaps having made it last year because we believe that we have seen and through it all the far-reaching long-term consequences of some hasty decisions, so we have therefore made such a concept that the risks of such wrong decisions reduces to a minimum. Also, reform means reform in the heads. We should have broken resistance in many people, in people in the system or in people who are closely connected to the system. It wasn't easy, maybe it was the hardest process to accept the fact that from an armed force that came out of the war with nearly 200 thousand people we have to come to a small army like this. It is for some who felt responsible for the development and for the creation of the armed forces either at the beginning of the sacrament. So we had to reach a consensus in the armed forces, in the Ministry of Defence, in all the components of the defence plan, that reforms are necessary and that reforms must be based on real economic indicators. I think we've done this, and we can't say that because of this delay in this country or this people, we've put so many millions of unnecessary costs. Because it's really a loss, and it's because we don't have a well-structured defence budget. It is not structured in the way that we could be if we had implemented reforms earlier but the costs of the defence budget in any case remained as they are, the rest of us couldn't realistically reduce the costs of the defence budget from the size at which we are now but we can improve its structure and there is a real loss that we spent on staff more than we should have spent on modernization, on training forces, etc. But I'm saying, I think given the responsibility of this task and the importance of this document, I don't think it's about lost time, I really don't think it's about lost time. We have a few specific questions. For example, why are we about the age of soldiers 35 years, etc. In fact, we did not prescribe that this is the limit that we have set as the upper age limit but we said that soldiers will, based on the results achieved during health, psychological, military-professional testing, offer them the first time-limited contract and based on the results presented in progress based on the needs of the service can be extended. This does not mean that it will be extended, can be extended, no later than 35 years of life if it meets all the criteria, if there are such needs. So we could go more restrictive but it's not a commitment. It is therefore a time limit, one of the age limits that we thought could still be used, especially when you have soldiers who have passed international operations who can now build this experience into the formation of therefore new officers, new soldiers and in the application of these acquired military capabilities to further development of the armed forces. Fight helicopters. We were in a real dilemma about combat helicopters. However, we are clearly told in NATO, gentlemen, what NATO needs, and we need to be honest with you, these are transport capacities, so these are transport helicopters that we need for health care, which we need to put out the fires, which we need for a whole series of civilian military tasks, including NATO. So that's not where we're part of them, and here we are, and we're dealing with this problem of getting combat helicopters because we've determined that it's going to be the means that we're going to get through beating up the clearing debt. Likewise, submarines. My Navy commander, when he hears the honored representative, Radosh, he will bless him in himself. I wish we had submarines, too, but you said yourself we had to give up something. We do have a tradition of submarinery, but I'll say the following. Croatia does not give up its capacity to control the submarine. We retain the ability to control the submarines because through new ships so that they will have sonars, which will also have towed, towed sonars, etc. So all means of surveillance of the submarines through the construction of a small mineship that may continue, etc. So we have the ability to effectively control and control the submarines. Fight, anti-submarine combat using submarines at this time cannot be financed in a way that we build one or two submarines and then a whole series of capabilities that involve setting up submarine rescue services, etc. I don't know how much but incomparable about what we're doing. So, we'll have patrol ships on the coast guard for a larger tonage that'll have a helicopter platform on it. Perhaps these helicopters will also be equipped with anti-submarine weapons. So by giving up the concept, we do not give up on the ability to control Croatian submarines. So, missions and assignments. Here, I'll say it right now because this is the freshest thing I've ever had. Why did we leave the appointment of the Croatian army? We didn't. The Croatian military, therefore, is a professional term. The Croatian military exists in Croatian military terminology. It is the Croatian Land Army as one component of the armed forces, it is one branch and it is the Croatian Land Army. Other members of the armed forces remained branches, Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defences, the Croatian Navy. You'll find it hard to convince a sailor that he's an officer of the Croatian Army. He is considered an honorary member of the Croatian Armed Forces but not an officer of the Croatian Army. So I'd like to see a technical question here. No intention whatsoever. In missions and tasks, we have clearly highlighted the obligation of defence of state territory and that is our first task. It was always the first assignment. So we have combat tasks in missions and tasks on page 84: "Averting potential aggressor as the first combat mission and defence of the territory of the Republic of Croatia including calling for Article 5. The North Atlantic Treaty." Just as we have obligations from, as the NATO Alliance has obligations to protect the Republic of Croatia because we are delegating military capabilities towards the NATO alliance, so we too have some obligations to the alliance of which we belong. And benefiti whose membership we use if anything else then in reducing defence costs. Therefore, we must show that we are ready, that we are ready to engage as part of the international community in the fight against those threats that threaten us all at this time. And that's organized crime, that's, that's terrorism and so on. This is where Croatia sees its engagement. Not as a pendant of this or that, but rather in the fight against terrorism and all those pains that involve a violation of the economic or territorial sovereignty of a state. When a respected representative of Pecek says that the HSS will not support the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia, he will not support the long-term development plan because it has not been developed, no defence plan of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted. I am telling you, Mr. Representative, from this place here, that the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia will be in the Croatian Parliament in September. The military component of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia is expressed. She exists. So the plan to use the armed forces is just one segment of the defence plan. The defence plan of the Republic of Croatia now means that giving up the concept of territorial defence that has been incorporated into all our programming documents in terms of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia. We are now doing this time and this summer time on dozens and dozens of consultations with all defence preparations in all the authorities of the state administration and in all the major systems responsible for the implementation of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and we are designing a concept in which procedures, mechanisms and ways of responding to crisis situations will be recognised. The defence plan of the Republic of Croatia will no longer be a plan of general defence. It's going to be a crisis management system and we're working on it. These are things that are not simple and that should not be looked at through the optics of each other I would say party competitions and myself, and here again I am acknowledging to you as representatives of the maturity of these debates because it really isn't, but here is a clear explanation for you that we are seriously working on it. Yes, here, it's said on several occasions that we are late for the second phase of defence reform. The honourary, Mrs Antunovic, said the SPO was only adopted in September 2005. It was supposed to be sooner. Yeah, I'm doing it again. Yeah, looks like we're late, but we've made quality papers. We made the documents ourselves, our own forces, by considering our own possibilities. I can tell you by the way, many of the countries that are aspirants for membership together with us had entire NATO experts teams from sponsor countries who helped them so to speak, who were doing these documents to them. We are proud to point out that we have listened to everyone's advice but that we have done these documents ourselves in the Ministry of Defense with our own forces. We even consider it a matter of delay that we can be proud of what we've done because it's our document. We didn't allow the condition that we didn't need this or that, that we didn't need this or that military ability. We said we have primarily armed forces to defend national sovereignty and integrity, and then we'll see what from these abilities we can delegate to missions and missions abroad. So about firing the staff, I have to say, we're probably making mistakes with the staff cuts. Just like you made them. We found ourselves in a situation where we analyzed the rhythm of layoffs, analyzed the structure of the staff that came out, and when we took over the Ministry of Defense we realized that we had already lost some abilities. That we've already brought some critical military abilities or expertise to zero. So that layoff when it was only a matter of getting more people fired, and the former government took a little care of the structure of the staff being fired, and that's why at this point we're a little bit more careful not to lose those military abilities that we won't be able to make up for overnight. I owe Mr. Hebrang, too. The experiences of the Homeland War. The experiences of the Homeland War may not be explicitly mentioned which may be a failure in this document. But I assure you in doctrine, training, in the concept of training, in the doctrine, in the programs of the military university of the experience of the Homeland War are very much alive, valorized and applied. They really are. When you look at war school programs of Western headquarters shocks, when you look at doctrine and training and... The documents are mentioned very often in the experiences of the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The level of this document may have been the cause of some things being left out in terms of explicit guidance. However, all these remarks could be discussed extensively. I once again say they're all in their own way in place. For each of these remarks, we have an explanation and I think we've done a lot this way. Of course we must give meaning to the standard of living. I'll be right back. I remember the questions and so on. We haven't kept enough or still don't care enough about the standard of living of soldiers, just as we don't care enough about the standard of living of workers or we're taking care of everything but we're not able to meet all the needs of all structures. Clearly here we must not put ourselves into a situation where our military call becomes unpopular that we cannot, that we have a problem with recruiting, that we have, thank God we do not have yet, we have more registered in cadet programs and therefore professional training programmes for the entry of officers who are educated at civil universities for Armed Forces than we have reception opportunities. So he's still, however, aware of that. Unless we have an incentive policy to maintain staff in terms of wage increases, in terms of raising living standards, that when that enthusiasm of young people goes away they may try to leave the system because in the meantime they will find some job on the side. We're taking care of it as much as possible. So, also in the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, we predicted a realistic increase in wages of 3% per year. Also through the concept of military 21st century, we predicted that you will, therefore, be the first to see a sample in Petrinja, so we also predicted accommodation facilities for active military personnel. So, in the military complex, we have training facilities, so to stay in the army, but also facilities for the accommodation of active military personnel. And we intend as much as possible to provide funds for the construction of personnel apartments, because we are aware that in this situation, the perspective of meeting the housing needs of active military personnel is something that may be more attractive for them at present than, therefore, more challenging than the receipts themselves that they have in the Armed Forces. We're trying to work this out. The answer was also what happened to the real estate and how we shouldn't base a long-term development plan on some fluid item. Indeed, no real estate income has been taken here. Thus, as an integral part of the financial resources intended for the development of military programmes. And neither can he in such a fluid way be threatened in any way. We are now going with the law, with a proposal for a law on the redesign of military properties where a fund is planned to be established for the re-use of military properties from which part of the funds will be allocated for equipment and modernisation programmes and for programmes to raise the quality of housing and living standards of members of the Armed Forces. But in these projections, these figures are not included and are therefore not presented in the plan and we expect some positive effects from these funds. What do you say? I'm saying, I probably didn't exhaust all the remarks. There's more to be discussed. But I believe it was a good observation by one MP that both the value of this document and the credibility of the government will be measured by the degree of ability to apply this plan. We will pay special attention to this, I agree with that finding that this plan must have its rapping points, that this plan must have its own ways of assessing. If we agree he's founded, he's ambitious. Someone said to shoot high and hard to reach, but one poet said to be realistic, we're looking impossible. And I don't think we are, we're not looking for the impossible. We're looking for ambition, and I think we're also able to do it. And here, thank you for your discussion. So much for my final presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70180	Thank you very much, dear colleague Rabotek. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70181	Well, it's incorrect that Mr. Secretary of State claimed that the reform went away because we've invested more in people and less in equipment in recent years, as Mr. Secretary of State said. Because until yesterday, the same option that you're now very busy defending has just been objecting to the rulings at the time that they're too little to invest in people, in severances, to deprive them of the system. And undoubtedly here you are now saying that it is quite the opposite and different that too much has been invested in them. So obviously that is not the reason for the estrangement, the lengthening of the reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70182	Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70183	Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70184	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. The proposal for a guidelines for the application of the contractual forms of public private partnership (PPP) will be discussed tomorrow in agreement with the proposing representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70185	Proposal for a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia 2006-2015 I am voting on a proposal for a long-term plan. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 85 votes for, 5 abstentions, the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 2006 until 2015 in the text proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70186	We therefore move to the next point - Proposal for a decision to appoint the Deputy Advocate for the Children's Office The proposal for a decision was submitted in accordance with Article 27 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Attorney General's Law for Children's Lawyers for Children. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Does the lawyer want to take the floor and further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go. The word is from colleague Jelavić, attorney for children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70187	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Law on the Ombudsman for Children provides that the Deputy Advocate for Children shall appoint and resolve the Croatian Assembly on the proposal of the Advocates for Children. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman for Children, a public invitation has been issued on the basis of the Ombudsman’s decision for the application of a candidate to the office of an alternate, i.e. the Deputy Advocate for Children, and for two responsibilities one of which, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman for Children, must have a high professional preparation of the legal direction. Public calls published in "The People's Newspaper" and in the daily press with a 15-day deadline. There have been 17 candidates, or candidates, on a public call. All applications have been carefully examined and a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Master of Science, Marija Gabelica Šupljika, professor of psychology and master of science Laura Vidović, graduate attorney-general for children. These proposals were submitted with appropriate documentation to the Croatian Parliament. Why Marija Gabelica Šupljika and Laura Vidovic? Both meet formal requirements for this duty, and I am convinced and professional. Mrs. Maria Gableica Šupljika is a professor of psychology. I point out this because the problem that we are dealing with is so diverse that it is necessary for experts of various professions to deal with it, it seems to me that psychology is a profession that can interpret many behaviors and problems and that it has methods that these problems and phenomena can explore, talk about and act on. Mrs. Gabelica Šupljika has 21 years of work experience and experience gained in institutions of education and education, health and higher education, and in the Office of Advocates for Children as a psychologist practitioner in the field of rights and the protection of children of early development, education, psediagnostics, counselling and higher education. He's also a psychologist scientist. In her work so far, she has shown strong motivation and sensibility for working in the sphere of the protection of the rights and interests of children at all levels. From a résumé that is an integral part of the decision, or a proposal for appointment, I will single out only a few cartoons. Mrs. Gabelica Šupljika is the author of 30 professional works in the field of development and social psychology. She is a co-author of several manuals for parents and educators in the field of psychosocial assistance to children, cooperation with parents of early childhood education and education. She is the winner of the state award "Ivan Filipović" for the field of preschool education awarded by the Parliamentary Committee, the 2003 Ivan Filipović Award.", and she also won the "Marko Marulić" Psychological Award for a particularly valuable contribution to applied psychology awarded by the Croatian Psychological Society. Ms. Lora Vidovic has graduated from law school, and I must point out that the activities of the Advocate's Office for Children are to the fullest extent monitoring the application of national regulations, i.e. national legislation and everything that goes with it. However, the office's activity is also to monitor the application of international legal acts signed by the Republic of Croatia, which relate to children. Ms. Lora Vidovic has 8 years of employment mostly in such jobs and is in the Ministry of Labour and Social Care at the Department of Cooperation with International Organisations and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration in the Department of Human Rights. He is well aware of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and of other international documents relating to the protection of the rights and interests of children as well as other regulations of the Republic of Croatia from the sphere of protection of the rights and interests of children. She's a master's degree on the subject of "a child's defender." He has passed a judicial exam and an exam for a permanent English language interpretation. From a résumé which is also accompanied by a proposal for a decision to appoint, I will also single out only a few cartoons. The winner is the rector's award for best student work, the special position of a woman in a working relationship. She was editor-in-chief of the journal for legal and social events lawyer, participant of numerous international seminars and conferences in the field of human rights, children's rights, women's rights, democratisation, etc. She was a member of the delegation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when presenting a periodic report to the Convention against Tortrum and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women. None of the other proposed candidates are members of any political party, which is also a condition under the Law on the Ombudsman for Children. Here's so much for the introduction, if there's any need, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70188	Thank you, Madam Attorney General. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. Is there anyone else who might be picking up later? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. This wheel will be voted upon when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70189	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the assistant attorney for the children. I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint Maria Gabelica-Supljika as the deputy attorney for the children. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, a decision on the appointment in question was taken. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision to appoint Laura Vidovic as the deputy attorney for the children. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 89 votes for, 4 abstentions, she has been appointed deputy prosecutor for children, Lora Vidovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow the newly appointed deputies for the children to take the oath before the Croatian Parliament. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath and then the deputy attorney for the children after being called up and said, "I swear!". I'll read the text of the oath. "I swear that in my work I will abide by the Constitution and the law, respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will exercise my duty in the justice, honor, conscientiously and impartially in the best interests of children."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70190	I swear! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70192	I swear! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70193	Thank you. Congratulations to Mss Marija Gabelici-Supljika and Lori Vidovic on their sworn oath and I wish them success in performing an honorable and responsible duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70194	We move to the next point - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act – Proposer zavodnik Željko Pecek, first reading P.Z. No. 447 You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the First Reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The word is from a respected colleague named Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after more than three months on the agenda, came this law, better said amendments and additions to its law. The most tragic thing about our work here in the Parliament is that when we try to get something through the emergency procedure, when, of course, the conditions require it, we fail, it's probably because this was an opposition proposal and the fact that it was signed by 26 MPs did not allow us to include it in the regular procedure. What is the meaning of these amendments and the addition of the Water Economy Financing Act to be easily seen from both the assessment of the situation and the proposal in which this situation is changed. I say the situation required changes to be done based on an emergency procedure. We all know that in December of last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia announced amendments to the Water Economy Financing Act, and at a session held on 2 February 2006, it also adopted the Water Economy Height Regulation. The regulation regulates that the payment obligation for the water economy is for each investor within the meaning of the Construction Act. The basis for payment was the cubic meter of a built object, i.e. a square or long meter. The water contribution was introduced as an entirely new fee paid in the construction of business premises, residential buildings, social standard facilities, religious facilities, production facilities, roads, etc. So by paying that contribution it could be expected that the average family house would collect for 20 thousand kuna, production plant minimum for 50 thousand kuna if it had a thousand cubic metres, church for 30 thousand kuna, road length for several ten thousand kunas, etc. The tragedy of this Regulation, i.e. the Law, was that the water contribution was paid at once, i.e. it was possible to pay on a periodical basis but the payment had to be completed by the start of the construction. In a state where Croatia needs new investments in any case, this too high new additional imposition has also been accumulated, but I suppose it has also made it difficult, or slowed down the construction of objects. However, the most important thing in this argument is the amendment of the Law. And that is the way the legal acts are passed by the Parliament and the way in which it brings its acts to the government. In fact, we have passed the Water Economy Financing Act here in Parliament, and we have allowed the Government to regulate by regulation how much it will be paid precisely for building facilities in the form of new commitments. And thanks to such an opportunity, the government has adopted a regulation to collect from private investors and businesses several hundred million kunas. There are estimates that this new imposition, called the water contribution, was supposed to bring into the state budget 400 million kuna. If we leave it to the Government to pass parliament to bring sublaws or regulations which, by their own weight, are much stronger than the law itself, I believe it is bad practice and ambition to amend the law that I am proposing here. And it is precisely that this regulation is abolished, and it is best that this possibility be abolished, because when we adopt acts of such weight, then it is absolutely certain that we should conduct a public debate on which, on the basis of which we should determine whether there is even a need to introduce a new burden on the economy and on the citizens, but then probably here and in the Assembly, we should also define the height of that new burden. In other words, there is no reason, nor is there a water contribution, a method of reckoning and its height, its amount being in the integral part of that Law. However, the Water Economy Financing Act, parallel to the Water Act, was amended in silence during the period late last year. Because it's like the law of a coupled vessel, if I can use that term, and one of the other initiatives surprised everyone, and it especially surprised freshwater fishermen because instead of the reductions and reliefs they expected to make so that they could successfully place their domestic production in export, which they've been doing lately. Their duties have increased drastically and their business conditions have deteriorated. In fact, these new laws maintain the production of freshwater fish, which is in fact easy to show on one example from the average pond of a thousand 350 hectares, how much is it in Croatia. In fact, these ponds that are involved in the production of freshwater fish have to pay six levs, it looks like they're going to have to pay seven. One inducement is called a water contribution which the Government also passed by a regulation that makes it impossible to build new water buildings because if you see how much pond you have to pay for the construction of water buildings, other words for the uptake of water, then it turns out that the construction part costs 50% and 50% costs water contribution to such investments. Other impositions to be paid by fish producers are called water charges. The third imposition, which is called the Water Protection Compensation, should also be paid by those involved in fish production. Fourth injunction, water treatment fee. The fifth is a charge for melitarian draining. The sixth levy is a concession for fish farming, which is also tied to water. And the seventh imposition which is not yet calculated but is called a concession on public good and of course if someone has a concession on public good, then pays these 7 water-related charges, using water in any form. If we also want to show on an average pond what this means for their economic business based on amendments to the Law, this mathematics is very simple. This pond makes about 600 thousand pounds of fish a year, the average price for fish is 12 kuna, or other words can make total income somewhere from 7 million and 200 thousand kuna. If we look at the amount of water-deliveries I've just counted, not to break my tongue, and I'm still not picking up 6 or 7 again, I'm going to say that that's 17% of the participation in the value of production. So what's called a water fee or a water treatment and protection fee, melioration drain, concessions, etc., is 17% of the revenues from the sale of fish that generates an average Croatian pond. If we look at it compared to last year when some fees weren't or were much less, we can do the math that was only 5% in the last year. In other words, we have 17% of our participation in the new, or we've increased it by 240%. Similarly, investors, whether in entrepreneurship or citizens, feel the same way when they build family homes because their water contribution has accumulated their investment. Fortunately, after 30 days, the government realized that it had made the wrong proposal through the regulation and had changed the regulation and reduced the burdens. However, it should not have waited 30 days because the first day, but the first day was known to be one big mistake, that we had put too much pressure on investors and it would have been much better if it hadn't been brought on its own than when we decided on the revenues of several hundred million kunas, it would have been good if it had been an integral part of the law and it would have been good for the Parliament to decide. Here's a proposal for amending the law going that way, and I hope that's how we're going to think about it in the future. I hope this proposal will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70196	Thank you, colleague Pacek. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, dear colleague Pankretic, president of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70197	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr Secretary of State. At the 40th session held on 9 May, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act, which was delivered to the President of the Parliament by representative Zeljko Pecek. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of the water economy is the Committee's discussion as a parent working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The majority of the members of the Committee did not support the adoption of that proposal for a law, so as not to apply the emergency procedure for its submission by supporting the opinion delivered to it by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 5 April 2006. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of the water economy of MPs Zeljko Pecek is not accepted since there is no regulation in the first legal order of the Republic of Croatia that lays down the common competence of the legislative executive authority. In the opening statement, on behalf of the promoter, it was stated that the amendments and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act at the end of last year were supported in the Croatian Parliament and aimed at improving the water economy situation. The opening statement further pointed out that at the time, it was not known what the consequences of the adoption of implementing rules under this Act would be, that the Government would determine such high amounts of water compensation. After the opening statement in the debate, the opinion expressed that the overall problem of the water economy should not be seen only from the point of view of the level of water compensation. In fact, the waters are of good interest and they should all participate in the maintenance of hydraulics, so some members of the Committee suggest that until a water management strategy is adopted, the way in which the water economy is financed must primarily be the part relating to flood defences determined by the latest amendments and additions to that law. The debate further noted that it is very often that the implementing rules, which are based on the powers laid down in certain laws, are largely changing the content of the law itself and that there is no influence in that part of the legislative body. In this connection, the principle of thinking is that the rules for the implementation of certain laws should follow their adoption. It is precisely because it is not in practice that some members of the Committee hold that it should be supported by this Law, which provides for a regulation on maintaining the level of water contribution according to the previously mentioned consent of the Croatian Parliament. Further discussion draws attention to the fact that water protection is based on two principles, which is that the water polluter must pay and that the funds collected from the water protection fee are used on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. However, the opinion that the law should have already provided for a part of the means of protection of water collected on the basis of use... in agriculture, focus on end-user education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, the agricultural producer should be encouraged, directed to such agricultural production which will at least pollute water. Although the Government of the Republic of Croatia amended the regulation and reduced the level of water compensation, it is in the opinion of some members of the Committee still high and restricts investors and not only in the area of agriculture but also beyond. At the end of the debate, the Committee submitted a proposal to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act. The Committee's conclusion is that the Proposal for a Law amending the Water Economy Financing Act with the Final Proposal of the Law is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70198	Thank you, Mr. President. Does anyone else want to go on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70199	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Zeljko Pecek's representative proposed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act and the addition of Article 8(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the financing of the water economy in a way that the words "under prior consent of the Croatian Parliament" are added at the end of sentence 1 and that, by amending Article 46, the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the amount of water contribution that the Government made at its meeting on 8 February 2006. The Croatian Democratic Community's club considers the proposed law to be anti-constitutional and illegal. We also believe that the proposed law is proposed by us, our assessment of political causes and false courtship to the Croatian public. In the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, there is no regulation adopted under the principle of common jurisdiction of the legislative and executive authorities, and that is exactly what the proposer proposes. On the contrary, the Constitution and the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that the rules are laid down according to the principle of strictly divided jurisdiction of the legislative and executive authorities of each and individual holders of the executive authority. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is competent, but also obliged to lay down regulations on how laws and decisions are implemented, and ministers are also making rules, instructions and orders, for the implementation of the law, and therefore, the proposed law proposed by MP Pecek introduces disorder and uncertainty in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal to suspend the validity of the Regulation on the level of water contribution on the date of entry into force of the proposed Law does not rest on valid grounds. It is a constitutional rule that the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the national authorities and bodies which have public authority cannot have a return effect. Well, that's detailed in Article 89(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the exception of the exceptions to that rule, which may be applied for particularly justified reasons. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not recognise, in the proposing explanation, the particularly justified reasons for retroactive application of the proposed legislative provision. The Croatian Democratic Community's club believes that MP Pecek is insufficiently aware of the water management system in the Republic of Croatia or of the other reasons it unresponsibly proposes the above-mentioned bill. The removal of one legal source of funding for the work of the current and economic maintenance of the flood defence system and the implementation of the flood defence during the period until the adoption of a new regulation would result in a legal vacuum. The proposed draft law did not propose that those needs be financed during the legal vacuum period. All operations of technical and economic maintenance, a built flood defence system and the preparation of flood defences should be suspended. This could lead to inconceivable consequences in the event of intense rainfall or the occurrence of large water waves in the waterways in any part of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I would point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia changed its rules on the level of water contribution and reduced the water contribution by 30% on average and on the construction of family houses by 50%. This was not done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of the proposed law of MP Pacek, but it estimated that in the state budget, and now it is done in this rebalancing process to provide part of the funds for the construction of water regulation buildings. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will not support such a legal proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70200	Thank you, dear fellow Chirac. A fellow Pankretić, on behalf of the HSS club. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70201	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So we at the Croatian Pecek Club will support Mr. Zeljko Pecek's bill. And I must say that at this dramatic performance of Mr. Honorable counterpart Shirtz on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, that I was in general in the dilemma of protecting the distinguished representative Pacek, because some of the words spoken could in some way be interpreted as having made some kind of big mistake. And I think it's the other way around. He didn't make any mistakes. As much as he does his duty as we do all who have to do it by proposing the law, because the people have chosen us here to be MPs and to propose certain laws. In that part of the law, as the Honorable colleague who throws here and the paper list says, we must respect and part of what we are here, and that is that when some law comes to us here on benches like the law that was on the benches in December of the month and that was talking about water fees and when we all read it, I would pray nicely if someone would remember that time and say how much of us sitting there could have expected that the government would bring its own regulation to bear the burden that it brought to our citizens in total by looking at it. I don't think anyone could have expected that. If it were something that didn't surprise us at the Croatian Pecek Pecek Pecek Club, it would say the entire Croatian public. And I think it's normal to react. Normally in the role that we here as people's advocates are acting to protect the interests of those who have allowed us to sit here. And their interest is very clear. What was passed by the regulation was unacceptable. What has been passed by the regulation is certainly, I feel free to say so, given that the Government and some proposals here if I read well, and that was since 5 April 2006, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia assessed Mr. Zeljko Pecek's proposal as irresponsible. I must say that the regulation passed under the law was irresponsible in that part because it did not take care of the difficult situation. I am not going to elaborate on how difficult this situation is in the part where it relates to investments in agriculture, when it relates to investments in construction, when it relates to me, I would say of the overall activity affected by this law. Therefore, the aim of Agent Pecek is very clearly assessed at the Croatian Peasant Party club. Neither as irresponsible nor as the introduction of unrest and uncertainty in Croatian society, nor with any false advocacy but as one duty and obligation of all of us who are here to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I would say, and now I will use the irresponsible regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If I were right about this part, the fact is that such an irresponsible regulation has been withdrawn by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and published a new one that I would say has shown more responsibility towards citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Because here, according to the honourable representative of Shirtz, on average, it reduced 30%. However, that assessment, too, is I would say the assessment that has been passed in a certain way, and it was not according to our assessment according to what should be and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is present and future, should not go out with the law. If it is impossible for the law to state how much of the amount in that part, then the projections would have made it very clear how much each law would, after the Government of Croatia's regulation, in a certain way if it did not go in accordance with that part, burden the citizens. And then I honestly believe that all of us here today would not even be discussing the proposal of this law, but when that law was passed very clearly, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia could not be such a law. Or if you go to the adoption of such a regulation, such a regulation cannot be adopted in that part. And I think we'd all have one less debate together that certainly wouldn't be happening here today. In this way, we must again here on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club support such a proposal and warn that without clear reflection when certain laws are passed or when certain things are passed, which are most directly burdened by Croatian citizens, I don't think it goes in order that all of us together when we are here are trying to help. Help investment, help development. If this regulation helped, I think we all agree that it didn't. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70202	Thank you very much. One correction, Mr. Marco Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70203	Just for a minute, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Pankretic said in his statement that he was in a dilemma in how to protect his colleague, Pecek, from the stance of the Croatian Democratic Community club. I think that quote is incorrect. A colleague of the Croatian Democratic Community should not be harmed, but we from the Croatian Democratic Community club and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community cannot be prevented from presenting our assessments of a legal proposal that is against the constitution, illegal and which imposes legal disorder, which puts disorder into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70204	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first Mr. Representative of the Nenad Stazic he doesn't have. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So let me give you a few words about the proposal of the law of my fellow Pecek, which I really think is very important for normal economic and basic life in the Republic of Croatia. I don't think of him as a false advocacy because he's not a false advocacy, and it's not a false advocacy that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know. When we discussed the legal proposals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia personally, we often objected to the government as a legislator to make draft laws without simulations, which means we cannot see the adverse consequences and the positive consequences of the individual proposals. I think these remarks were particularly prominent when we discussed the proposal for a Water Economy Financing Act. However, even if simulations were made at the time, these simulations could not show us what happened after the Croatian Parliament passed the law, and the Government completely changed the will of the legislative body by its regulation. And that's why it's a good thing we're discussing here today in this way. It seems that some parts of the Croatian Parliament knew what would happen. They knew what was going to happen. They knew this regulation would completely stop full investment in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation provides for water-based compensation for the construction of family facilities, so on the construction of economic facilities, infrastructure, hospitals, kindergartens, churches and so on. This contribution had to be paid to obtain a building permit and we were addressed by a number of citizens who had been found, frankly we didn't know what to answer either, because if we had known that what was going to happen we would certainly not have supported that law. But the government is used to being socially insensitive. Yesterday, when we discussed budget rebalancing, we saw that the government lives in a completely different world, that it has a completely different idyllic view of Croatian reality and has really passed a regulation that has stopped investment, it has introduced a regulation that has made it impossible for the construction and family houses, family housing, but also economic business spaces. The construction of kindergartens has also been stopped, infrastructure construction has been stopped, but of course it was not important for the government and today we hear the government has changed its decision but not because my colleague Pecek was going through the bill but because the government liked it so much, the government is becoming suddenly a little more socially sensitive and says funds have been raised in the state budget to maintain water supply, draining, etc. Which simply isn't true. The government has changed its decision and has reduced the level of water contribution, however, it cannot be deceived by citizens of the Republic of Croatia who know that this regulation and this law introduce some new contributions and no matter how much they are, they collect investment in the Republic of Croatia. If our priority is to stimulate economic activity, if our priority is to make better employment as possible, of course, without encouraging economic activity, and that means investing, then we must look at this investment and in the light of this regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that collects these investments and it is absolutely safe to invest and encourage it is not acceptable for the ino-investors we so long for. What is particularly surprising is that this regulation makes the Government of the Republic of Croatia in no way sensitive to the area of special state concern. In areas of special state concern regardless of which category and group were the first, second or third, life is quite different. There, the conditions of management and life are greatly difficult. This country has passed laws that encourage economic development and a halt to life in areas of special state concern, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just encouraged the departure of residents from these areas, it has stopped the restoration of infrastructure that has been destroyed in the war, and in particular the construction of the new infrastructure that is really needed in these areas because without infrastructure life is not possible. I don't understand, I really don't understand how such insensitivity is possible for people who have paid the greatest price of the Homeland War. These are people who have been evicted from their fields, who have been somewhere else for years, who after years of living elsewhere and the birth of children somewhere else and the enrollment of those children in other schools, have found enough courage and have come back out of love to the area of special state care, now the Government is giving them this regulation to be an unpleasant surprise and, in fact, be regretful of what they have come back for. What do we need areas of special state care where there are no residents? And in the end, I wonder. I wonder, are we as a society, are we as a state interested in encouraging these areas to reach the level of development of the Republic of Croatia? I don't think so. I don't think so. And for that reason, it is unacceptable to have such a regulation, and therefore I personally support the proposal for the law of my colleague Pecek, not for the reason that false advocacy was said, but simply for the reasons of responsibility to those who voted for all of us and for me. We did not come to the Croatian Parliament by our own free will, in the Croatian Parliament we do not have the right to represent the opinion of some others but those who voted for us. I come precisely from these areas, Mr. Vice President, and about these problems, not only do I listen, not only on the phone or on the phone or on the run-off or on the speaker, but I witness this life. And you know when one of my Kobashans wants to build a house so when you get a building permit for that house he has to pay a water-based fee of 50 thousand kuna, and he's working for a salary of a thousand and 500 kuna, then he doesn't stand a chance. It may seem amazing to you that we work, not me, but we in those areas, and we're happy. We are happy if we can work for 1,000 kuna and without working time, without the right to vacation, without hot water in the company because the company owner ruled out hot water for punishment for not winning the election his political option. Mr. Representative of the State, under such conditions live these people who find it hard to make money to do something to survive, and this regulation now sanctions them. And as I told you, be in them only regret that they have returned to those areas. If we want to realize what we declare to be in favour, and that is to return life there even though life is difficult to return without economic incentives and without economic recovery, and yesterday we see that only 0.024% of those funds provided for in the economic recovery of the area of special state care have been invested. So neither the state invests in economic recovery, yet these regulations burden the will, the insistence and the difficult solutions of the citizens themselves. In this way, it does not care about these areas, in this way the state is not sensitive despite all the beliefs about its social sensitivity, and in this way it does not build an idyllic picture of Croatian reality. I therefore support the proposal of my colleague Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70206	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words on the bill. Here, when we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act on 9 December last year, which I personally voted for, I didn't know that with that vote in this year, I was going to make extra expenses more than one constituency salary. Because it's all of us who are building something this year, based on a regulation that came after that, some sort of a simple, average object, that we've put ourselves through costs. And then what to say to our people who voted for us. Well, they voted for such a law themselves, and they brought it to themselves, so let them enjoy such a system. Because what to say is that after the Law was passed, the regulation followed, and when we passed the law, I personally could not understand that after the regulation, there would be such a drastic increase in the fees that would have to be paid not only in the construction of the house but in all the construction of the facilities that we are building today in Croatia. Well, I can give an example that this regulation and my company, which I have worked with so far, will pay for this year, according to my director around, between 3 and 4 million kunas with an increase and water compensation only for the construction of forest roads that are built and fire roads built in Croatia. Some 300 miles [300 km], about that is probably what he says. That means that practically by passing a law like this, we've increased the cost to all of us. And I can understand that you need to finance a water fee, pay, but it seems to me that this way is too big. I didn't get a projection anywhere, not even in the adoption of this law, as much as it would have been expected at the end of the year of these millions of kunas from a full amount of such compensation. I haven't seen her anywhere. She's probably worth a lot. And I know, I realize that we need to finance it, but it seems to me that this way we're really stopping some economic branches. Because what to say if, according to some calculations for the family house, it's some kind of minimum of 10 grand per higher, it can be, depending on the size, for building a mile of road, a huge amount, close to 40 thousand kuna and building other objects. And what to say for direct, let's figure it out, the one who builds so probably will get wet if he's already made all the advances, then he'll pay for that contribution. But when you look at the height of that house building fee, it's more expensive than the whole project is documentation with all the fees that you have to pay the others. Only one charge is more expensive than the rest together. I'm sorry, but it's a big donation we introduced, and when we talked about the law, we didn't even know it was going to be like that. And no one can convince me that it's useful and everything, and we didn't even know when we passed the law that it would be. And if that were the case, those words of mine must have confirmed a regulation that changed and decreased a month after that because they were too great. I also say now that those who remain too large are still too large and that we must not, in such a way, impose once-in-a-lifetime some fees that will drastically collect all the construction. But I'm glad I'm not the only one. Here I know, and colleagues on the left here, just not here today, fellow president of the Legislative Committee must also pay that fee, so I'm not the only one. His is a little higher than mine, because I got some papers back in time. But that doesn't mean we did it right. When we look at economic resources in fisheries. They've had trouble all this time after the war. Which is because of the loss of the market they had before, which is because of the damage they had because they were in war areas. And now that we've introduced these water charges and everything else, it's been said 17%, I in some data 22%, that it's more expensive for them to build. What does that tell us? If one charge can affect 1 product that it must collect 17 to 20%, this means that this fee is not properly maintained. If it hadn't been for a little worry about making some kind of calculation of it, to see an assessment of what such a single blow would bring to that economic branch that was potentially exportable always and today is and which survived in the difficult conditions after the war environment and everything else. And now instead of trying to weigh it in some way in the right way, we cut some fees more quickly after a month and then nothing further. Well, it would be logical if we really tried to see how many such increases they wear, how heavy they are, how much they burden our citizens in that part, and not to say what my colleague Ljubica is in areas of special concern. The fee is equal to the cube of space everywhere. Thus, the poor person there in a special care that has no income, who knows how to live in those parts. His fee stays the same. Therefore, there is no way to reduce and if he wants to work legally and get the permits he has to pay for it, and then we will have the consequence that there will be a larger number of illegal buildings that will not be affected at the moment, we will have the other extreme, because such gatherings work on how people resort to trying to solve it, so there will be no control if he builds some economic object that I don't know the barn, the barn, and he will try to set it on fire. We practically got on the other side another illogicality then and therefore my appeal to the representatives of the government regardless of what it is clear that you will not accept this bill, but try to understand that this fee is too high, that it affects a common man and that it is not the same for him that I told him about the building permit and all the paperwork, for all the permits you need, just about there somewhere just for this water fee. And it's an enormous increase and then it doesn't want to be realized that now I don't know Pecekov or anyone else's. It was accidentally my colleague Pacek who proposed this bill, the bill, but I'm asking you fellow MPs, so you'll all be building the same thing, if not this year, maybe in two, three, five. With this kind of payment, I say on my example of more than one constituency salary a month costs me voting for the bill this year. Now listen if it's good for how many people are building today? I think it came suddenly one fee that no one expected, and it's too big, and that's why it's necessary... I'm not against paying for a water fee, but in reasonable quantities, not for that one fee to be more expensive than any other fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's inappropriate. Therefore, I appeal to you colleagues and to the Government's representative to try to sit down over the summer and try to see how much money you've raised for that time, how many people have paid, how much it was possible to pay such a fee, to see and to come to the fall of some proposal or some new regulation that will significantly fix it. That's what I'd end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70208	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr. Zdravko Krmek, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me briefly look back on the government's behalf on what we heard here today and make some arguments that are what they are. First, I'd like to say something about ponds. Here it is said that there are five or six different kinds of fees for ponds. I am here to say that as far as the pond is concerned, as regards the amendments to the Act on the financing of the water economy, the ponds are placed in the category of agricultural land. So it's exactly the same water treatment fee, and I also want to say that the total cut of the former water fee for 2005 was about a million and a half kuna, and the total cut for this year is going to be somewhere around 805,000 kuna. So this water treatment fee is about 50% lower than it was in 2005. I also want to say that we said that on the parent board and that all the members of the parent committee were familiar with it, so these are facts. As far as these other fees are concerned, the only compensation that still exists for the ponds is the concession fee, so whoever uses water in terms of the amount of water he takes from the water stream pays that concession fee and it is exactly the same as it was before. As regards the water contribution, the water contribution is not paid on existing ponds, it is not even paid on newly built ponds, it is only paid on the facilities that are within that pond, so these can be business premises, production spaces, etc. Here I also want to say something about investment since it was said here today that investments have been stopped. The facts mean that since the water contribution was introduced, the number of construction permits, i.e. the number of cubic meters compared to the same period in 2005 has increased 4.2%. So there's no saying that the investments have stopped, or that they're stopped. It is also important to note here because it is said somewhere that the water contribution is the same for the complete area of the Republic of Croatia which is not true. The highest water contribution is charged in the City of Zagreb and in the protected coastal area where we expect to mean that 80% of all water contribution revenues will be from that area, and I would also like to say that the largest source are commercial business centres, as well as apartments that are built by the sea, means apartments for sale, meaning the maximum amount of water contribution is obtained from these sources because they are issued the largest number of building permits. It is also said that for the ordinary house here you should make a water contribution from the circus 50,000 kuna. If it's in the area where I come from, then in Slavonia it should be a house from somewhere 820 square meters, so here we can figure out what amount it's about. Here I would particularly like to highlight what, in fact, we must point to as Government, which is that the water contribution, the purpose of the water contribution, is to protect against the harmful effects of water. We all know what happened less than a month and a half ago, we were in the area of Osijek, Vukovar, also in the area of the settlements next to the Danube. We can imagine what would happen, let's say, that he gave in to the rash in Kopačev. We can imagine that thousands of housing and houses would be compromised, people should move out. Of course, the damages that would come from a scenario like this that didn't happen with us would be more than multiple of this one-time fee paid in the construction of new objects. And I repeat, the greatest benefit from this water contribution is just being built up and finally let me add something else and that's about paying in wars. We said and allowed it and it was possible immediately at the beginning means when and the water contribution was made we brought the rule that brings the minister where we gave the means to these residential buildings, the houses, so we gave the opportunity to pay off the table just like the communal fees. Excuse me, communal contribution to be paid on authorisation. So, the exact same conditions were, so also if you can make a communal contribution paid to build a house pay in, by heart I'm saying, ten wars can also be paid a water contribution and it's enough to pay the first war to get a building permit. And finally, I want to say that the government is following and that this reduction that we had meant after a month has been made for reasons that income was above expectations. So we saw it within a month and we said it ourselves means that given the investment and construction, given the investments for which the applications were submitted we evaluated and here's the only reason we went for is to reduce the water contribution by these individual categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70210	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Ledinsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70211	Mr. Vice President, it seems that a fellow secretary of state was wrong to mention 820 square metres of cubic meters and the building could be smaller, it could be high, so it has more cubicity, especially economic buildings. Well, here, in that part I'm correcting that quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70212	Thank you. On behalf of the Club is the conclusion of the HSS Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Well, I'm glad that Mr. Secretary of State mentioned some facts here and this fact that he mentioned is that the income above the expected will certainly help solve this case that I'm going to be talking about and this is a particular case where I believe that we will all and at least so we people here are saying that we are socially sensitive enough to people and I'm going to tell you, it's a particular case of Mr. Solic who directly addressed me as a representative. I referred that as a written parliamentary question to you, but perhaps for a little while I should say it here. Mr. Solic is a relatively difficult asset. The wife is on maternity leave with a thousand $600 fee, the salary I would say on that average in Croatian and you know that it is very little and he decided to raise a loan and build a house and build it in a way that the old house that his grandfather still built in the 1970s still builds about seven times eight objects with no attic in his body. However, Croatia's waters of the water-economic department of the Sava water sector have issued a solution class/UPI No. 325 of 28.06 this year and the amount to be paid is 42 thousand 303,13 limes. It's impossible for him to pay that amount. They are at war, war would be five thousand kunas to him. If you count this maternity fee, his wife, three thousand kuna, gives him credit so he can even raise the facility. What happened? In the water fee, the existing old facility is also accounted for. Here, there's all the paperwork that's going to be sent to you. I'd like to appeal. We have concrete cases where people are because of what happened, I'd say they were brought into a staunch situation, so I'm asking you to see all of this, saying about where we've all somehow come up with the fact that we have to protect especially that man who can't really make this fee, the man has also filed a complaint. I believe that here is my appeal in this final part that we will specifically help a man to respond positively to my representative's question and that really free this fee from Mr. Solic's man who can't and I believe that all of you believe that 43,000 kuna for that number of cubics is certainly not and that the entry of an old part of the house that was built in the 1970s can't be so by no regulation, by any law, and I think we have to meet there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70214	Thank you. On behalf of the proposing Mr. Representative, Željko Pecek is final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary, thank God this proposal is not going to go into another reading because I don't know how I would classify all these remarks that we've heard here especially from what my colleague Shirac said I'm going to say even the accusations are ridiculous from false courtship. To whom I, Mr Širac, or HSS, is importantly grateful that he proposed what he proposed at the time of the adoption of a regulation that has brought high burdens and the Government has subsequently withdrawn the proposal. So my question is to whom the Government of the Republic of Croatia is granted when it has reduced 30% of its contributions. No, she's not courting anyone, she's already realized she's made a mistake, and that condition has changed. As the Prime Minister here in the Parliament said. But it wasn't supposed to wait a month. Mr. Secretary of State, you can't explain that you've earned income above expectations. Well, you changed the rules after a month. What can you estimate in a month's time for revenue for a whole year? That argument is at least ridiculous. The reason and motive for amending this law is, above all, what is a new imposition, which is one of the eighty duties that there are in Croatia, a burden called taxes, a burden that is called contributions and that I do not now list them all in order. Croatia is therefore uncompetitive. Investors are bypassing Croatia, and they are bypassing it because there is also a large legal uncertainty. A fellow Shirac, however, is true that the Government has the right to adopt a regulation. It's perfectly logical that there is and it's perfectly logical that the minister has a fellow secretary of state right to adopt a rule under the law. That makes sense. And it doesn't make sense that the government makes regulations weigh 400 million kunas at a time when the Parliament is sitting. Well, logically, it would be an integral part of the law if we here in the Parliament discussed it and then you see there wouldn't be any surprises. Then we wouldn't get our income above what we expected, so we wouldn't change that regulation. Instead, they would assess all of this objectively, and that contribution would have those frameworks for investors and would ensure that function which I agree is necessary in the function of protection against water penetration in certain areas and so on. What you also said about this regulation having a retroactive effect is not true. But when the regulation is abolished what is the proposal of this law after that day, something else is happening? Whether the proposer or the Government of the Republic of Croatia will make a proposal to amend the law, new law or new regulation is, that is, someone, some of the possibilities. In any case, it would have been good if we had put something that wasn't right immediately after power, and that regulation wasn't right. The proof is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has changed the regulation itself. About how you say there's a legal vacuum, so at least that's funny. If this regulation introduces uncertainty and legal vacuum, what would happen to over 200 regulations and regulations that have not been passed for two years under the law that has not been passed by the competent ministries and governments? Or what would happen about this point we discussed earlier, based on the law better said Article 5. The defence law did not adopt a defence plan for the Republic of Croatia. It wasn't brought. But you see it doesn't concern you even though it should have been brought in within three, four years but you're worried about a legal vacuum for the regulation. So if we wanted to make out with someone, then I'm asking you what interests are you protecting? So it is very interesting to collect 400 million kunas of new charges and it might be good to buy again for 400 million euro steel pipes that would then be built into the next 100 years in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We probably haven't spent the steel pipes we bought from the water contribution we've also increased, so now we could do it for the next two, three, four years to spend that money and that lobby that's interested in buying steel pipes, plastic pipes, which is interested in digging to have an extra 300, 400 million kuna. But you see me and the HSS Club looking forward exactly to the fact that this proposal has prompted the government to change the situation, so instead of $400 million, it's going to be 280 million kuna, somewhere around the year, and that's enough to be in the function of protecting the defence against floods, and in any case, there's one big reduction for investors called citizens and they're called businesses. About the ponds of my fellow Chirac so I'll tell you that this calculation I've been reading and just from the pond in your area of which you are 3,4 kilometers. The manager of that pond's calculations worked, and it's absolutely accurate. A fellow secretary of state is funny to say that the water contribution does not apply to the pond but to the buildings that are being built. Well, that's clear to the little kid. It's clear that I said that the rash on the pond was an object. Then you don't know the law. Then you don't know the law that the rash requires a building permit and that he's an object. And that imposition is 50% of the cost of construction of the embankment or anything. On your claim that the house in Slavonia, in your native Slavonia of 800 squares, is too big a house at the very least is questionable. So how much should be a house in Slavonia with a residential space, with a stable in which there would be perhaps a 100th of a heifer, in which there would be a haystack, where there would be an infrastructure of the access road where there would be water, gas and all that was needed. You think 800 square meters is too much? I assure you not. If we want to think in modern Slavonia where we will have peasants with 100, 200 acres of land that will have stables, and build them, thank God they're worth 2 and a half million kuna that these are then too high loads called water contribution. So if we talk about the increase and the claim that the water contribution did not stop the construction because the construction of the larger and the number of building permits issued is 4.2% compared to last year. This is at least questionable because no one has brought down the claim that we do not have any conveniences and should have them for areas of special state concern where not only people have to build their housing and economic facilities but also municipalities have to rebuild the roads, have to rebuild the waterways, install the gas and so on. So what I've heard are the flat-rates. Thank God we don't have to build these proposals anywhere, and thank God the government has realized that it has passed a regulation that burdens investors and citizens and units of local self-government too much. That she's changed that regulation and I think there's room for further changes and I hope she does it over the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70216	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And Mr. Shirac's correction, here you go before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70217	... Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In his presentation, he stated this: that by passing the law he proposed to this Croatian Parliament, so as not to create a legal vacuum, it is not true either. The bill proposes to abolish the government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation providing funds for a public activity called the Croatian water economy. And my colleague, Pacek, did not propose any way in his Bill proposal to provide funding for that public activity. I could do a lot of decommitment about this, but, of course, we will have opportunities when a spatial order strategy comes before us to then declare on the means of financing any activity carried out in the Croatian water economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70218	He didn't have to propose... It's nowhere. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70219	No, no, he didn't claim he wasn't going to make Mr. Vice President a legal vacuum. The legal vacuum would be created because he did not propose another source of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70220	And I'm just saying he didn't have to propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70221	No, no, he didn't have to propose. But I'm saying there'd be a legal vacuum.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70222	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act. Proposing representative is Željko Pecek. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act proposed by Agent Zeljko Pecek for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies." Please vote. The result? With 65 votes for, 4 abstentions, 23 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70223	We move to - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia – Proposer Zeljko Ledinski, first reading P.Z. No. 438 The legislator is representative of Željko Ledinski. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the Proposer want to give an additional explanation? He does. Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70224	... Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Here, let me briefly explain the proposal of this law that I've had as many opportunities to see has not been found... a bill proposed by the Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do I propose a bill like this? It's about one part of the settlement, relatively small. His name is Opatija Gornja. She has several hamlets, and she used to be a local community who entered a municipality with all other places, and she had a situation, which nobody cared about was part of a local community called Gornji Hroševec, so she entered another municipality under Opatija. She doesn't have any physical connections of quality to this community where she is now. There is no desire for those inhabitants to live in that municipality. Both municipalities agreed to transfer that part of the settlement from one municipality to another. The problem is the procedural nature which is part of the settlement, which is not a settlement. Although on the ground it is practically called Opatija Gornja and it has all the attributes of the settlement. I ask the Government's representative to do such small things that help municipalities and people living there on the ground to allow this procedure to be resolved. Not that they're coming back. Because they were told a few months ago when they were at a lady's office that it was practically settled. Because both municipalities have agreed. But now I see that the proposal does not make it that way. Because they don't have the institute to call it a settlement, but they're part of a settlement with several villages. It's not a big number, but believe it makes these people difficult, because they have to go around, they don't have a way of quality. And until now, what they've been doing in life has been done in another municipality, i.e. The municipality of Kravarsko, not Popojsko where they are now. Well, I wouldn't explain it for long, but that kind of thing, I think, should be a little bit different. Not that he has to go into procedure and then not go through that part yet. And I think that, given that it's in power and in one and other HDZ municipalities that supported the proposals, there's no reason why these things don't satisfy these people. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70225	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSS, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70226	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Peasant Party club supports the bill. After all, we support the locals of Opatija Gornja. I think it's incomprehensible that formal things can't solve people's problems. The problem of people who really face one community in their lives every day, and they should be in another municipality. Officially the Municipality of Popusko, the Municipality of Kravarsko gave consent, people all, all signed with a desire to cross into the Municipality of Kravarsko. Zagreb County confirmed it. Everything would almost be said to be satisfied and finally we all thought that the people of Opatija Gornje would be satisfied in that part. However, unfortunately, here is an existing proposal which has not been done in the procedure. The discussion on this part said that Opatija Gornja is not a place, is not a settlement and that this is why it cannot be done. I don't think that's enough reason to see one whole, one place doesn't satisfy their wish, their right to always let someone decide where they're going to be. In addition to that right and the decision of its own, it does not conflict with the decision of the Municipality of Popusko, nor with the decision of the Municipality of Kravarsko, nor with the decision of the County of Zagreb County. So I'd like to ask you all to support this proposal. The Croatian Peasant Party Club stands firm with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70227	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. The legislator is representative of Željko Ledinski. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on the completion of the Law on City Areas, Municipalities and Countys in the Republic of Croatia proposed by Agent Zeljko Ledinski for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies." Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 68 votes for, 8 abstentions, 17 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70232	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the law proposes amendments and additions to the payment of so-called. rents, which are paid by craftsmen who are situated in, I think there's a fellow Pecek, he's the only one who's authorized, so here's a fellow Pecek to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70233	Here you go, fellow Pecek, this Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of the Conservation of Cultural Goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So I'd like to protest a little bit at the beginning against this way of skipping the agenda, because this looks like a 100-metre race where some dots are skipped for unknown reasons, and some are included in the agenda, of course, when there are no cameras and there's no public interest. Here are four points of the HSS in a row placed at this time for unknown reasons. Well, here I would beg on behalf of the club a break of 10 minutes and to explain to us such a way and reason. I hope there are justifiable reasons why we skipped these points.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70235	Comrade Pacek, I will give you a clear break, but the reason is that in accordance with Article 205(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, because it is simply that we have had a report from a private public partnership which the proposing representative will be provided not for today but for tomorrow as we have two previous, two previous points concerning the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and the National Consumer Protection Programme. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I move them. That you're still insisting on this...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70236	Yes, Mr. President, because you see you're making the chair of a session the difference between the proposing who proposes guidelines on a public private partnership and a representative of Sabati who proposes something else. And I ask you why you make such a difference? The promoter is not here, of course he couldn't be, because he has some other obligations as a representative, but you're making a difference between the proposings. It's an excuse if the motionary isn't here, if he's a representative of the government or some ministry, and I'm stressing the same problem again. You set up five points that has HSS as a club or representatives individually, you put them in for a while, and you skipped a lot of points from me for an unknown reason. So we don't have a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, so I'd like to hear why we skipped it because I saw the Secretary of State sitting here, I assume he came because of that law. We also have the Annual Report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme, I think it was also not difficult to provide the promoter and there is another third proposal called the Guidelines for the application of contract forms for a public private partnership. I remind you that these are points 7 and 8 and point 13 and now we're at point 16 noting it's called a 100-metre jumpover. And here you have grouped in an unattractive time a bill on water economy financing, then on areas of county and cities of two laws, then the Law on protection of cultural goods and the Law on pension insurance, the Law on maternity leave and the Law on the status of parents of education or six laws. Whether or not, because these are all HSS proposals that are read here at 5:00 and 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70237	A colleague of mine as chairman in accordance with Article 209 shall have such powers and opportunities and I shall do so in that way and as always the chairman of the earlier. Do you want a break or do I suggest you don't ask for it, that we move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70238	If I were to ask you to take a break obviously... from half an hour to prepare for this set of all the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70239	Ten-minute stop. All right. It's 5:00 P.M. ... Gentlemen. [[Home is not saved.]] We're continuing the session. On behalf of the HSS Club, the president of the club, Honored Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, which is actually very similar to this proposal that we discussed earlier. In a section relating to the new impose that has been defined for entrepreneurs as we have through the regulation burdened additional entrepreneurs, i.e. citizens with a water contribution, so through the amendments to this Act we have burdened people who carry out certain activities, and work them in objects that have cultural goods status. That obligation to pay the so-called so-called payment. monumental rents were introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia by the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, which is, of course, good and that happened in 99. The law was amended in 2003, but the news for 2003 was that the Law introduced a double way of determining the monumental rent. I.e., direct monumental rent and indirect monumental rent. The direct monumental rent is paid by natural persons and legal persons who are taxpayers of income tax or profit tax, who carry out activities in the immovable cultural good or in the area of cultural and historical integrity. And today it seems to me that no one understands what a cultural and historical whole is, but about that something later. The property of cultural goods defines and determines the minister of culture and is published in the National Journal. However, the Law defines a cultural and historical whole only as a settlement or part of a settlement, i.e. as an area that is protected as a cultural good. And the law doesn't really determine what a cultural and historical whole is. The concept of cultural and historical integrity of the Law is only used in Articles 114 and 114, which determines the amount and method of payment of the monumental rent. Otherwise, it's a cultural and historical whole we don't know. Only in the function of paying the rent. This direct monumental rent is paid by all the bonds that work, meaning, in an immovable cultural good and they refer to objects in the register of cultural goods of Croatia, that is, in the area of cultural and historical integrity. So-called Indirect monumental rent is required to pay legal and natural persons who carry out their activities regardless of the area and area in which this activity is carried out, listed according to the national classification, and among which we, for example, separate hotels and restaurants, which may be logical. But that's also where we list the people who fix the bikes. So if he doesn't give God a bike repair at such an facility he's obliged to pay that fee as well as the one carrying the taxi ride so he accidentally parks here or somewhere nearby. Well, it refers to telecommunications and everything else actually according to a certain national qualification. It is interesting that according to the ministry's interpretation, payment of indirect rents and direct monumental rents is not excluded. Which doesn't really make sense, there are two charges for the same facility, for the same job done. This height of the monumental rent is defined by municipalities and cities by their decisions under the Law and it ranges from 3 to 10 kuna per square metre of useful area of business space, i.e. this other rent is paid at a rate of 0,05% of total income for so-called. indirect monumental rent. With these amendments to the Law, we want to achieve actually a simple effect. That the maximum regulation of the monumental rent moving between 3 and 10 kunas is reduced to the possibility of 1 kuna to 5 kuna per square metre of useful business space. We would also like to through the amendments to the Law and make exceptions to free the payment of monumental rent crafts that have tradition, but also entrepreneurs from areas of special state care, island and mountainous areas. We would like to delete the provision which introduced the payment of another rent for certain activities because if you are carrying out a certain activity, it is also because you are carrying out the provision to pay additional rent. And we would like, what I was saying earlier, to erase the notion of a certain cultural and historical entity that is neither defined in this Law concerning rent nor anywhere else in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. This regulation would result in a reduction in the issuance of entrepreneurs for monumental rent, which are higher for certain cities even than the amount of municipal compensation. In addition, the Law would delete a provision on payment of rent for cultural and historical areas, which areas, once again, are not regulated. In addition to the definition of this very concept, it is not prescribed who and on the basis of which criteria determines them. Also, our proposal deletes the list of activities that would pay for so-called activities. indirect rent, and for a choice that wasn't really a clear criterion that was used in such a selection. Using this legal possibility of prescribing the rent, the monumental numerous cities and municipalities made their own decisions, which, of course, determined the maximum height of the monumental rent. The payers see in this rent another state charge, tax, contribution, tax, whatever we want to call it and refuse to pay, that is, it is hard to pay. A commendable move is made by some cities and municipalities that have put such decisions into rest. By accepting this proposal, we would be disbursing entrepreneurs who are in fact the foundation of the Croatian economy and would actually enable the implementation of the constitutional principle of public cost settlement in accordance with the economic opportunities of entrepreneurs and the principle of justice. I know that here from the Ministry's representative, I will get a comment and a proposal on how in fact this Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods gives municipalities and cities the opportunity to prescribe for themselves the height of the rent and the same way that they have the opportunity to free individual entrepreneurs from paying and rent if they have traditional crafts or are in the area of special state care. However, the amendments to the law go in the direction that the monumental rent could not be greater than 5 kuna per square metre per month instead of 10 as it is so far and proposes to free those who need it most, and I stress the islands, the area of special state care and so on, because the municipality or city cannot do so without paying that rent instead. So if the municipal council's decision is to remove the rent from a craftsman or entrepreneur, it must pay for them, because that's also the state's income, this monumental rent that is shared means between the unit of local self-government, the municipality, the city and the state in relation to 60 versus 40. So if the municipality freed the craftsmen or entrepreneurs from paying the rent at the same time, it created its own obligation to pay for it. Here is a simple proposal to amend the law that reduces the amount of monumental rent per square metre, which wants to erase the notion of a cultural and historical unit that we are not familiar with at all, which wants to free the payments of that rent in the areas of some state care, islands and the like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70242	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70243	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few more words that I would like to say on behalf of the HSS Club, who is also the promoter of the Proposal for an amendment and addition to this Act. So here last year, the HSS club received a memo from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, after repeated memos that were sent to the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister, where they suggest that we put such a bill in the process because they couldn't get it from the Government. I wouldn't read it, but here I'm just saying it moved us to try one way and in a set of artisan laws that we've proposed to allow the craftsmanship and the little craftsmanship to dissipate certain givings that are growing and more difficult for them. When this Law was adopted clearly that all municipalities and cities introduced mostly maximum rates for monumental rent, mostly 10 kunas and when you calculate these fees are the same as those mentioned earlier, a significant item that our craftsmen are dealing with with with small crafts, especially here I mean those crafts that are already in extinction. These are significant givings for them, especially since their income is not large annually, and the monumental rent is usually in urban areas, and it is very large and encouraged by this we proposed first of all a reduction and compensation proposal and I think it is justified that this fee with, was from 3 to 10, to be reduced to one to five kunas maximum. It should also be possible to free those areas that are of particular national concern. We know what the situation is there, that conditions are difficult in both these cities and municipalities that are of particular national concern I don't think it's right to charge such a large monumental rent. And the same thing when we add this indirect rent, they practically pay two. In this way I believe that it would help a little to dissipate that craftsmanship that in these environments where there are these craftsmen, and there are more of them, are actually initial signs of recovery especially in areas of state concern that something will start happening in these areas and we are now... at all possible maximum fees and then what happens to us? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have the expected development of the economy. It's an example now with this year's fee introduced... that we were saying earlier if he wanted to build something these are huge amounts, they're more expensive than I was just saying than one building permit with all the papers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that he's working if he had the money to start and he's up to something, then we give him a high monumental rent, and then these fees are so I don't pick up much and it's actually disabling his normal work. Then his workers are on a minimum wage, then he tries and cheats where the state can avoid giving, and then he brings it all in, it comes to a great burden, and it simply makes it impossible for him to grow and develop. I think it would be good to think about it and to allow at least what we suggest here to especially in these areas of special care that part of the fee to allow municipalities to do so, that they do not have to make such decisions and that this fee does not have to be paid, and that it is also reduced by practically 50%, from 10 to 5, or from 1 to 5 kuna, as provided for in the bill. I believe it's a small proposal that may seem insignificant to someone, but believe it for that small craftsman and entrepreneurs many such small proposals allow some kind of better and normal development in these small environments and I think they are completely justified and therefore I appeal to all of you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70244	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 76 votes for, 6 abstentions, 12 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70247	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So the pension system is one of the most important social security systems. It provides safety in the case of age, disability, death of a family member or physical impairment. On the day of 31.12.2004, a pension was received by a million 65 thousand 655 users, making up almost a quarter of the population of the Republic of Croatia. The Pension Insurance Act defines that the pension system is based on three levels and this is the first compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity, second compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. Pension insurance rights may only be granted by insurance and insurance personnel and members of their families only in the event of death of an insurance undertaking. The right to retirement has an insurance policy when a man is 65 or 60 years of age and 15 years of retirement. The amount of pension depends on the salary achieved or the basis of the insurance on which the contributions were paid and the total completed retirement pension until retirement. By virtue of the Pension Insurance Act, as many as 71 thousand users receive a pension of less than 500 kuna per month, and the average pension paid to those users according to the data that we could get at the time of writing this bill was 359,24 kuna per month. It is absolutely certain that the pension system does not give this part of the user almost any social security. Furthermore, according to the 2001 census in the Republic of Croatia, there are 644 thousand people over 65. Part of these citizens are not pensioners, nor do they generate income by their own work. For the social security of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia over 65 years of age, we propose amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act, which introduces national pensions into the pension system. The right to a national pension would be granted to citizens of the Republic of Croatia over 65 years of age who, from 15 to 65 years of age, had an uninterrupted residence in the Republic of Croatia and who in the year preceding the year of recognition of the right to a national pension did not earn more income than the income established by law. If a person and her spouse have obtained income less than the income established by law, the right to a national pension shall be exercised in the amount of the difference between the income achieved and the amount of the national pension. The national pension would only be paid to citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia and the right to retire ends with death, emigration, obtaining income greater than prescribed. The system of national or social pensions is not unknown in either the world or Europe. In some countries, they call it social pensions, in some national pensions, and it is common to all to ensure the social security of citizens who have experienced inability to work and do not have or do not have enough means to live. The conditions under which the pension can be realised as well as the level of pension depends on the economic power of the state. However, it is tied everywhere to the age and residence of a certain number of years in the territory of the country. In the Nordic systems of national pensions, they are based on the social democratic idea of equality and because of the wealth of the countries that apply such systems, national pensions are revenues from which they can live with dignity. In Australia, New Zealand, these pensions are called social pensions because they are often accomplished by those who did not have much before retirement. Switzerland has a national and Portugal has a social pension. And if we seek Europe, it is our duty to accept European standards, as other transition countries accept them. During the discussions on committees, the objections considered that the national pension should not be in the pension system, and this time it should be stressed that although it is incorporated through the Pension Disability Insurance Act, it is not in fact in the pension system and pensioners who exercise those rights that really do not lose anything if the other part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have income greater than the law envisaged guarantees social security. In order to be absolutely clear why we decided to go this way, it is necessary to emphasize who is actually entering that system of national pensions. In this system, national pensions are made by citizens who are 65 years old and who do not have employment skills and have no income. So this is the poorest part that may not have had the opportunity to start a working relationship during life. However, such citizens in the system are very few. The second part of citizens entering the national pension system were those who worked, paid contributions to pension insurance but did not turn 15 and did not exercise the right to retire. This law would cover them, too. Indeed, the different reasons for the termination of employment are different, and most often people are not guilty of being unable to complete 15 years of employment because many colleagues have lost their jobs precisely because of privatisation and tycounisation and have not been taken into account what they are missing for a few days to obtain the minimum conditions for obtaining a pension. The third part is those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have always lived in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but for various reasons and have worked in some other countries now, then some other republics of the state of Yugoslavia and today their pension is much, much smaller under these 500 kuna. We need to know that these people are receiving pensions of 200, 300 or 400 kuna. The fourth category to enter national pensions is peasants. You remember very well that the villagers did not have the possibility of legal possibility of retirement insurance. The legal option was introduced only later and the part that paid the pension until 60th, until 65th. They have made pensions, and these pensions today amount to 230 kuna. They're old today, they're incompetent to work and their income is no more than 230 kuna. We believe that a country that says to itself in the Constitution is a social state, that it has an obligation to take care of the safest and most incompetent citizens and what we have predicted is indeed a minimum. And we heard complaints when we suggest so little better not to suggest anything. But what was our standard? The measure was the lowest, a pension that was made for 15 years of employment and 65 and 60 years of life, respectively. We felt that up to that amount there was, there was justification and that it could be evened in that part. I'm not saying that those who have 15 years of employment, 65 or 60 years of life that their pension is now what they pay off is enough. No, it's not enough. It's not enough. And that pension should be increased, however, by the very fact that their pension is insufficient cannot be established and a justifiable reason to exclude this poorest part of the citizens from any, any social security that the state can provide. Next thing you know, I'm counting national pensions aren't strangers in the world. Not in the world, not in Europe. And more and more states have national pensions. And Russia has a national pension. I said there are two systems: social pensions and national pensions. We considered the most appropriate system of experience and the use of experiences from countries created by the former Yugoslavia. And exactly one of these systems has our neighbouring state of Slovenia. We believe that if this law were accepted to prove our responsibility and our social sensitivity, and the state, I don't know who the state is, the state budget wouldn't lose much. It's a small amount of money for what can be given to the poorest and the weakest. On this occasion, I might be able to analyze a little bit of the welfare system. I would like to remind myself that in the social care system the right to social care also has a working capacity for citizens. Personally, I feel it is unwarranted that working citizens have the right to social care and those who are incompetent, who are still ill with no social security whatsoever. Here is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, therefore for these reasons it proposes these amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70248	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy, Health, Law. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are here before you is the proposal of this law. I will speak on behalf of the Club about one segment of the Law and especially put an emphasis on it. National pensions, one part of people's protection has been said for a very long time. I would say that many of you sitting here today have discussed it on your round tables. I would say to my party posts and that you sometimes made certain or promises or conversations in that part, but unfortunately to this day since the existence of an independent state of Croatia we have failed to say correct a certain injustice. When we talk about injustice, then here I'm primarily talking about our farmers, our peasants. I believe that there is a large number of you here who, if not one of your own directly, whether a father, whether a mother, a grandmother, a grandfather, but surely your close relatives have someone who is 70, 80 or more today and has no compensation of the state and has nothing to do with it, I would say reward for that work. I can't accept that someone can say that the only reason why you can't introduce a national pension is because someone didn't pay into the Peace Fund. That someone wasn't a security guard. I will then remind many of whom we know her even though they know something about agriculture that she will be aware that by the early 1980s it was not possible for farmers, and afterwards given the mistrust that has always been among them many have not done so. But no one can say that a farmer who today is 85 years old or 75 years old did not deserve his work from the Croatian state to give him a national pension. No one here can convince me. Fifty and somewhere and a few thousand we have such people, and I think we're talking about this segment is extremely important to get a national pension. This really shouldn't be taken as a single party project. I think it's a national interest, and if someone's talking about that there hasn't been any attempt to do this part, unfortunately, it's just unfortunately failed, and I think it's really high time we passed that law. Which is why he's only important not for this reason that I've talked to these people where I believe we'll all agree and that part of social sensitivity shows what he is and important I would say primarily because of future policy towards the village and one view of the village. Unfortunately, we wanted to or didn't want to admit today we have big problems in the country and we objectively are not going to solve these problems if we don't solve this problem. When we talk about agricultural land, then we come to the conclusion that the overall solution of many issues in agriculture is the solution and agricultural land, by rounding up economies that our, family farms can be competitive on this ruthless market. But the moment we put things back a little bit, we come to the fact that there's one large part of our nursing homes that unfortunately we know is owned by private persons is the largest part of the agricultural land, but these peasant economies, these people are tied to that country, they have no social security, and I assure you there's no way we can solve the problem of the village, rural space without very systematic measures, and one of these is a national pension. By introducing a national pension, we have provided a large part of these peasant economies that will still be socially secure, taken care of and we can freely say we will put a large amount of agricultural land on the market. This agricultural land, especially in the north-west part of Croatia, solves many of the problems associated with the circulation. Without solving that, I assure you, we will not solve the problem of rural space, nor then definitely the problem of agriculture. There's not a single man who lives in a village who'll sell a square of his land if there's no fee, if he's not somehow taken care of before, if he doesn't have a pension. People are most directly bound to that country. They feel safe in it, because other securitys don't. I think only this one in this segment sees the importance of this national pension. The importance of national pensions in the overall resolution of rural space. We must be fully aware, so according to some analyses, it is certainly 20 today, 30 percent of such households in the country. We have a big problem with, I was talking about agricultural land here. We have on the other hand those who would like to expand, who would like to live on agriculture, cannot expand, have this problem. We have a problem then together in the country, which is that rural space is not desirable, that rural space is not what everyone wants. And we would like to see processes happen like the processes in Europe that we often call upon, and these processes today are such that people from the city, from urban areas, go to rural areas in rural areas. But that country space must then be so developed with all those things that a modern man needs today. And we are fully aware, there is no rural space, there is no village in which we will be able to solve all these problems if we do not enter into resolution in one analytical, systematic way. And one of the first things in the common rural policy must be national pensions. Here I tried on one segment to tell you with certain facts how important this bill is. He may not have that many articles, but I can assure you he touches a large number of people. I think it shows a certain sensitivity of our country as a whole, as well as solving a lot of problems that are primarily related to rural rural space. For these reasons, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club and your parliamentary representatives, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70250	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70251	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, today it's in a set of HSS laws that happen this afternoon in this heat that's playing out, and here the president turned off our climate, so we're getting a little warm. The working conditions are good says colleague Lesar here so we can get warmed up a little. We're talking about a national pension. Apparently, national pension is also a hot topic that no one in our country has solved so far. Well, as part of this situation that's out there, and it totally fits right here today, here's when we're talking about it. What is a national pension? Is she supposed to be here? So since virtually all the advanced countries of Europe and even here in our neighborhood have a national pension introduced as one category that allows the care of some people who have a certain number of years, who have not been given the opportunity to get a certain pension. Here's a colleague of Lalic's who spoke nicely about all the categories that claim to be recipients of such a national pension. That's why I think it's necessary to say that here we were a few months ago when we talked about the Law on Defences introduced a minimum pension for our defenders who seemed to me to be 45% of the average, which was also a very good category to allow at least one part of the population when they came in some years who were defenders to have that minimum pension. And I also think that it's good and this national pension would also practically put the whole population in a position that when it comes to certain years when it can no longer be done, when they're already old enough to, and they haven't gotten the conditions for other pensions to somehow live with that national pension. Especially interesting are those categories of non-citizens, they had not to be reported to have a work book, these were mainly peasants, and many other housewives and all others who did the same during time contributed to all the communities in which they lived, but did not get the conditions to get any form of pension. Here's counterpart Pankretic said this nicely about the possibility that those who would be the holders of national pensions would probably then sell some of their land to their neighbours who would thus round up their family economy, and our goal is to make this family economy a bearer of production. In this way, it would be possible for us to get the conditions of custom entry into the European Union as quickly as possible, practically within that branch. Because it is obviously going to be one of the more difficult problems for our country, in line with the conditions of the European Union right in agriculture. And the introduction of one of these institutes would allow people of an older age, who are already here at the end of their own life path, and do not have the basic minimum conditions for the introduction of some of the minimum money that would be foreseen to create conditions for other parts to develop better and faster. This way we will be forced, these people will be forced to process, not process, rent and rent their surfaces to their neighbours, but there will be no conditions for one who should develop to develop faster and better. And in that part, one of these, one national pension institute as predicted, would show that we are taking care of our old people, that we are becoming a more socially sensitive state and that we are creating preconditions that are tomorrow waiting for us to join the European Union. Tomorrow already, here it is before us today. Whether it will be in a year, two or five, but in any case it will be very soon. Adjustments, adjustments must be made quickly. The laws need to be changed quickly and there must be one sensitivity that this process can be moved as quickly as possible in all segments. In this way, we will allow for a more normal status that our country should have. That's why I think it's useful to talk about this, this problem. Yes, if not today or tomorrow when there's a vote because obviously there's no will to vote on it today. Some of the next governments will surely have to bring it in if not this one. And it is my appeal that we all think about it together and try to respond to those demands as soon as possible. And these funds as much as it takes to budget it's not so much that it couldn't be found in the budget when we see here what kind of contributions we have in the budget, what all the proposals of the law we've been going through and regulations then a regulation like this would certainly, one such law would certainly not burden the budget and it would find a broad basis amongst the general population. And my proposal is also the ruling set to look at what percentage of voters are from that older age with them, then they will be made clear that this proposal would be useful to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70252	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act proposed by the HSS Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies shall be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 68 votes for, 4 abstentions and 21 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70255	Thank you, Mr. President. So you didn't give me your word, the closing word at the previous point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70256	If you were looking, I'd be happy to give it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70257	Well, I didn't make it. When you're so quick to hold a session today that I haven't even been able to answer it. You use your business rights to feel like a count and we feel like farmers... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70258	Not now I'm going to go. I'm going to go slow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70259	Take it easy, Mr. President. Don't be confused because we won't be confused either. [[I'll hurry slowly.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70260	Soft and slow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70261	Okay. So colleagues and colleagues are entitled to the maternity leave of women who carry out their own professional activities, craftsmen and farmers are governed by the special Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers, which was adopted on 15 March 1996 and since then has been changed three times. 1997, 2001 and 2004. I already have the basic text of the law put the above-mentioned categories of women in an unequal position compared to women who exercise their rights under the Labour Act. This imbalance is particularly related to adoption rights and childcare with severe developmental disturbances. This Proposal for a Law proposes equalising the status of mothers who carry out their own activities with workers' mothers who exercise their rights under the rules governing work. With regard to the need for this alignment, we point out. The Republic of Croatia is a signator of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of a Child since 2 September 1990 and has the same duty to provide for every child in its field of protection, in its area of protection of its rights, in such a way as to respect and ensure that every child in the area under his jurisdiction has any discrimination against the child, his parents or legal guardians regarding their race, skin colour, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national, ethnic or social origin of property, development difficulties, family origin or other circumstances. It shall take all appropriate legislative, administrative and other measures to ensure that the child is protected from all forms of discrimination or punishment on the basis of status, activity, expressed beliefs or beliefs of his parents, legal guardians or family members. To respect the responsibility, rights and responsibilities of parents or when it is necessary for members of an extended family or community when it is imposed by local customs of legal guardians or other persons legally responsible for providing children with adequate guidance and guidance in the exercise of rights. That a child who is temporarily or permanently deprived of his or her family environment or whose best interests do not allow him to remain entitled to special protection and assistance by the State in the form of replacement care in accordance with his domestic legislation, shall take due care of the best interests of the child and shall take appropriate measures to assist parents and other persons responsible for the exercise of rights and, if material assistance and support programmes are necessary, in particular with regard to nutrition, clothing and housing. In particular, we point to Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, according to which the concluded and confirmed international contracts form part of the internal legal order and are within the legal scope of the law. The obligation of the Republic of Croatia to protect the rights of the child also arises from Articles 62 and 64. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing child protection. The proposed provisions in relation to the applicable law are reached: the law is in line with the provisions of Articles 61 to 64. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia i.e. a family that is under the special protection of the state of motherhood and children shall be equalised in rights and protection regardless of the basis for which they have arisen. The law also complies with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which the Republic of Croatia has signed and confirmed in accordance with the Constitution and which forms part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and is legally above the law. Third, for mothers who carry out their own activities, the same rights are prescribed with the basis of adoption and for mothers workers. Because now these mothers don't have the same rights. Fourthly, for mothers who carry out their own activities, the same rights are prescribed for extended maternity leave that can be used by the child’s father and for the mother’s workers. So there's no discrimination. Fifth, for mothers who carry out their own activities and care for a child with severe developmental disturbances, the same rights as for mothers workers are prescribed. Six, payment rights are prescribed for mothers who carry out their own activities, as well as for women workers who have the right to pay. Seven, for parents of a craftsman who uses the right to an extended maternity leave for up to 3 years of a child's life, the right to rest in the craft by exercising his right to health insurance and health care, and the right to pension disability insurance. So this law is absolutely in the function of removing discrimination against children and mothers. The rights of mothers crafts and others who carry out their own activities shall be equalised. And we were in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party very proud when we changed the law in 2002 and we evend out the rights and unemployed mother and mother who was employed. On that occasion, I reminded the late MP, Jož Pankretić, who said motherhood has no division. All mothers are equal. And this law is going, the bill of law is going in that direction right now. All mothers are equal. And if the right to maternity leave is given to a foster mother who is in a working relationship, why is that not a mother-in-law, why is that not an unemployed mother? Why does an unemployed mother and mother craftsman have no right to an extended child care with development problems until the age of 7 as a working mother? I think we must have hearing about that part of the Croatian problem, and therefore we have proposed this bill. It is that the government's opinion is negative. I was hoping the government would change its mind, because it's not unusual. Well, we had a little while ago at the club that the government was changing its mind about some other proposal. So the change of opinion, first the government gave a negative opinion, and then she withdrew the opinion and gave an amended opinion. And it kind of associated me with some newspaper articles. Well, I'm convinced the government can change its mind without bringing someone's head on a plate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70262	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. The final word of the applicant. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity leave for mothers carrying out the independent activity and unemployed mothers proposed by the Association of Representatives of the HSS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, reports by the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 67 votes for, 5 abstentions, 20 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70265	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the Law on the status of parents is motivated by the fact that in Croatia, the democratic structure is significantly disrupted, and the fact that in Croatia less and less is born and increasingly dying. In 2005, and in 2004, only 35,000 and 390 children were born in Croatia. Maintaining such a trend will certainly bring about those black forecasts that in 2050, Croatia will have only 3 million inhabitants. It is good, therefore, that the current government has defined effective population policy as its priority on the moment it presented itself to this House and when this House trusted it. Of course, it is now up to the government to be effective and to prove that its commitment would not only be maintained on the declaration. Effective evidence is certainly not only the appointment of a Council on Population Policy, which is tasked with drawing up a proposal for a national population policy. The National Strategy for Demographic Reconstruction in this Assembly adopted in 1995. Done in terms of precision in 2001. All the measures envisaged have not been implemented and there are no positive developments. The correctness of a policy drawn up by a strategy cannot be assessed without the necessary measures previously implemented. Therefore, the new national population policy can only be seen as a delay in the application and implementation of already outlined measures, i.e. as an indicator of the declaration of declaration, not the real purpose of the announced position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Declarativeity will not result in demographic renewal, and a significantly impaired demographic structure will leave its adverse consequences not only in the number of inhabitants but also in the economic development of the country that so needs it. Without economic development, there is no need for social needs to be met, which is growing with increasingly visible decomposition. Without economic development, there is no implementation of those measures of population policy that have been introduced so far, such as An extension of maternity leave for twins, third and any further child with a corresponding maternity allowance. We consider the effectiveness of population measures to be a definition of parent status of breeders with all the rights that this status gives a far more effective measure than extending maternity leave for twins, third and any further child. The maternity leave and the corresponding fee are limited in time of 3 years. This bill does not cover either maternity leave or compensation but gives greater safety to parents with four and more children, because one of the parents guarantees an average monthly net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia until the 18th year of the youngest child. It is precisely this material security with a child’s allowance and its expected increase that is certainly an incentive measure towards such a desired increase in birth. This should take into account social sensitivity, as this refers to the poorest part of the citizens. Namely, the rights and status of parents of breeders can be achieved by persons who are not employed or who, on the basis of independent work and with which equal forms of work, earn income from less than the average monthly salary. The parent is entitled to the status of the youngest child. I would remind you that precisely those countries that had the biggest birthmark problems, but they defined it as their priority have passed such laws. And these laws work. And when laws like this started to apply then there was a rise in birth rate. We are surprised by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which it explains and suggests that the bill be rejected already in the first reading. Such a firm attitude that does not allow any other reading to which the necessary interventions would be carried out in accordance with the debate, is in fact proof that the demographic renewal supports only a declarative one, and the extension of maternity leave as the least effective measures confirms as pure demagogue. So let's remind ourselves. Prolonged maternity leave up to three years will be used only by those parents who have high incomes and who will easily find another job if they lose the job so far. So in practice, neither does it characterize social sensitivity as it wants to be shown to the public. It's an unacceptable explanation that he says among other things. Provisions are questionable which determine the age of 18 years of life of the youngest child as a condition for the exercise of the right to parent status for reasons that the child may cease to be a abstention. Article 1 of the Law clearly defines who can achieve the parent status of the breeder. A parent who has at least four children under the age of 18 can do so if children live with their parents and support them. The committees heard a variety of remarks, including that children can earn significantly more than their parents before their age and that is sufficient reason for the law to be rejected. Yes, and this is happening, but very rarely, negligible and in this case the parent does not support his child and therefore does not meet one of the basic conditions for obtaining parent status. The Government further clarifies in its reasoning that the refusal to comply with the amendments to the Labour Act is a reason. Although it does not specify what the discrepancy is, we assume that the government had in mind the erasure of the former article 63 that defined the concept of parenting status. It is true that this article has been deleted, however, this fact is not an obstacle to the adoption of this law. We would like to stress that one of the measures to encourage demographic renewal can be the introduction of parent and breeder status. As the Prime Minister likes to say and remind the representatives and the Croatian people that this government is implementing and implementing the Croatian Democratic Union programme, then we remind the government and the MPs that the national programme of demographic reconstruction from 96 was the realization of the programme of the then ruling party, which is the Croatian Democratic Community. Therefore, this opinion of the Government and the recommendation to the Parliament to reject our bill is a confirmation and proof that the Croatian Democratic Community is giving up, that is, giving up its programme of demographic renewal, and it is the right for each party to bring its own programmes and to change them, of course following the sanctions of the people. And finally here after the argument, I think this is our last bill, and after what almost no one wanted to engage in the debate, it is possible to predict the outcome of the results, I am trying to imagine what the founder, ideologist, founder and teacher of the Croatian Peasant Party would say to the people today, "Freedom without social justice means nothing to the people". Are we socially just?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70266	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law on parent status. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on parent status of breeders proposed by the Association of Representatives of the HSS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 67 votes for, 7 abstentions, 16 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70269	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me remind you first of what we have proposed in this proposal to amend and supplement the law. I'm sure you read it, but it was a long time ago, because we've been waiting a few months for this proposal to open up, so I want to remind you what we're proposing. In fact, they have been offered discussions in Croatia that have often been conducted, because they have been conflicts of different concepts, which have caused the problem of working on Sundays, especially in trades that went in the direction of the debate or/or. It's either a permit or a ban. In addition to claims that society and the state are powerless to make order, the ban would mean asphyxiation of freedom of entrepreneurship, and such a liberal approach goes to the harm of employees especially women who are forced to work for a small salary and holidays and Sundays. We have proposed interventions in the Labour Act in a way that work on Sundays, holidays and other non-working days can only be conditions if conditions, methods and criteria are established by collective agreement. This is actually what we wanted to achieve by establishing two partners employers in their associations, workers in their associations rules of the game by collective agreement. In this way, they would in some way force them to agree together, to be clear to each other, and especially important, that system allows far more effective supervision by inspection because collective agreements can be better monitored after the rules laid down. The second thing we have suggested is that the mandatory content of the collective contract is also an increased salary for such work. According to the Labour Act, however, there is no provision for the increase in wages for such types of work to be an integral part of the collective contract. By the way, such a provision existed in the Labour Act in the '90s, and unfortunately the subsequent changes were left out. Our third proposal refers to the employer being required to keep records of workers working as well as records, i.e. to determine in advance the schedule of workers for a period of at least a week earlier. The work inspectors warn us that they have two reasons or two problems why they can hardly determine when who actually worked. According to the current decision of the Law, the employer is not obliged to execute the schedule of working time for the next week or keep records of the presence at work. So, an ordinary schister whose pattern has already existed in the National Journal for years, and I saw that a month ago and in the Council for Officials and Furnishers, such records have been introduced, although, behold, the Labour Act for Employers does not foresee it as an obligation. By keeping a record like this, the inspector may carry out surveillance and may not have to come to a store on Sunday or to a company or company, any other day or night, but rather to oversee the presence at work may also be performed afterwards. And later, our fourth amendment refers to sanctions for offenders where we did not go with a single amount regardless of the size of the offence but would depend on how many workers the employer had committed to the offence. It does not matter if the employer violates the provisions of the Labour Act for two workers or 200 workers. It doesn't matter if he made them work once a holiday past a collective contract and a law or if he does it every day or every weekend or every holiday. So, this very different sanctioning we wanted to make a difference in what kind of force it would have in terms of the number of employees, the frequency of violations and work. Screening of Croatian labour social legislation has also shown that Brussels resents us and asks us as a state to step up efforts on collective negotiations, especially by border and by border collective agreements, we solve a large part of what is not there. So we will not because of us and the ruling majority not because of our proposal will have to do this because it is indeed a European trend to solve it in this way. This proposal was also supported by the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia, the organisation of the union centre UNI-CRO, the Association of Workers' Unions and the Croatian Union Association. They supported the four largest union centres, recognising this mechanism that does not go to anyone's harm, goes to the benefit of law-abiding employers, goes to the benefit of employees and for the benefit of the union. In a big discussion on Sundays in shops, it has been forgotten that already, not for the last two weeks, but 20, 30 and 50 years in Croatia work on Sundays and hospitals, police, firefighters, gas stations, power stations, public transport, bakeries, pastry, restaurants, cafes, cinemas, theatres, TV, radio, hotels, customs, flight control, plumbing, gas pipeline, therefore, a number of public services. What do they have in common? All the activities I have listed have collective contracts that regulate the terms and conditions of work on Sundays, holidays and nights. They all have a regulatory and surveillance option, so if that's how we make this step in labour legislation and help those activities that she hasn't managed yet. The experiences of neighbouring Slovenia also show that this is practically the only way because the Republic of Slovenia had an advisory referendum on working in Sundays or not. And after a referendum and the inability of a different solution to their economic chamber, their government and their trade unions agreed to regulate this matter by collective agreement, and I read yesterday that employers and trade unions have reached an agreement that in Slovenia trade will also work on Sundays, but rules of play, increases in wages, how many weeks can work, how many holidays can work, everything will be the subject of an exclusive collective contract. The government has been expecting to give a negative opinion on this bill and this is because it is a deep analysis of work-social legislation. I asked the social partners if they were involved, they told me no. And the second reason why the government is called on is that the issue of wage levels is not only the subject of collective agreements but also labour contracts, decisions and contracts by employers of working councils, and I see the greatest danger in this case if the government insists on such an attitude. That it will allow quacking agreements with tobacco working councils of different meshes, hohstapplers who are already robbing workers on just a week's overtime, to have under the supervision of the working council, and these contracts will be even worse than they are now. That is why I am appalled by the fact that the Croatian Government or those who wrote this opinion in the name of the Government prefer and put agreements first with the working councils, not collective agreements. The debate will also open on the proposal for legislation, colleagues and colleagues from HSLS, which is good because the essence of the solution in our Article 1 and in their Article 2 is almost identical and it is very good. The government has now given a positive opinion and has given the opinion that until the second reading, the government should also be involved in drawing up the final text. That's good. This proves, however, that it does not matter what is proposed but who is proposing, but now I call on my colleague Adlesic because she will be in a better position than I am. That provision on the obligation to establish through a collective agreement the level of wage increases is extremely important in the follow-up. That's right. The second provision on the obligation to keep records of the presence at work, as otherwise, cannot be controlled by this provision in your Article 2. We will help inspectors who are too little, who have no money for overtime, who do not go out on Sundays, holidays and nights, and help them to work this surveillance in office hours. If, therefore, for the second reading of these two things you can still insert into the final text then it will be about a whole that will help to protect interests and workers, and employers who now respect the laws do not impose any new costs. Which is important again because we don't collect their labour price. I would, of course, be happy that both laws go, both proposals go into second reading so that we can even come together with the proposal, but I know that this is impossible because of the government's opinion and I will be very happy if counterpart Adlesic succeeds the government's representatives in agreeing to persuade the whole of the solution to go because only the first provision without these two in practice will not benefit much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70270	Thank you. Amendments to the Labour Act, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSP. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70271	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, the lady of the Croatian Government. With your proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act, we want to address one of the problems present in the application of the Labour Act. Namely, when the Labour Act was amended in 2003, a good step has been taken in our court to prevent the dismissal of workers who report corruption, however, a cardinal error has been made, which is that the criminal provisions of the Labour Act are not complemented by an appropriate punishment which would be punished by an employer who is still deaf to this ban in the Labour Act. So, our amendment to the Labour Act, no matter how domicile, actually refers to one essential problem, which is to protect against the layoff of those workers who report corruption, or popularly called "the whistles". We therefore consider that in Article 248. The law defining penalties for the employer shall be laid down in paragraph 1 of the new point 11. which would read as follows: "If a worker who addresses himself on reasonable suspicion of corruption or in good faith submits a report on that suspicion to responsible persons or competent authorities, he shall therefore cancel the contract of employment". So these are so-called. The most severe violations of the employer, and among them we wish to cite the release of the whistler. We also believe that criminal provisions should be significantly increased. So the sanctions in this law are put in our court really funny and you'll forgive it's truly amazing that an employer is being punished with 100 thousand kunas for firing a "whisperer" and that the responsible person in the employer, so if it's some kind of company punishable with 10 thousand kuna. We believe that the minimum must be 100,000 euros for the employer, or 10 thousand euros for the responsible person within that company who fired the worker. We don't think there's any more effective punishment than money. So when someone gets hit in the pocket, think twice about what they're gonna do. Also, in order not to let the employer fire the worker through pressure, through mobbing, through experience on that worker during working hours at his workplace, we would like to add to Article 30 of the new paragraph 9, and Article 30 refers to the protection of the dignity of workers. So, this worker should be protected from harassment if he reported corruption, so that it wouldn't happen to have been forced and abused by an employer at the workplace and threatened by his dignity to force him to resign himself and leave the company, so we want to protect him from mobbing in the workplace. I repeat the existing Labour Act as much as it went to the ban on firing "whispers" workers did not take into account the possibility of mobbing and, of course, did not take into account the need to violate his dignity and thus force him to move into the workplace to resign himself. Why is this important to the Union in the Labour Act? Because Croatia signed and ratified 2000 and 2003 respectively the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption and the Civil Law Convention on Corruption. These two conventions, both of them in Article 22, prescribe that to fight corruption, it is most important to protect those who have reported it, so witness protection, the protection of whistles is important for an effective fight against corruption, and you will allow no more effective coercion on workers than the threat of failure. We have this well-known case of Vesna Balenović, which is precisely for the application of dishonest and illegal INA stores, was fired and then fought for years not only for her job but also for her dignity. We therefore believe that such examples and other examples suggest that existing labour legislation is not equipped with those protection mechanisms that would protect workers from quitting, and we believe that this can be done most effectively with a large penalty for employers, i.e. the Labour Act is not equipped with protection mechanisms to protect workers who have reported corruption from mobbing, so from harassment and to humiliation in the workplace to force them to go away on their own. I repeat witness protection in the publication of the convention is crucial to combating corruption. The Croatian Government if it wants a truly effective fight against corruption, then it should be acknowledged that instead of spectacular strategies and anti-corruption programmes, it is far better to take a concrete step, and this is, by our court, the protection of those who have had the courage and reported corruption and that protection from firing from the company. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia's response and its opinion on our Bill proposal are just over a year ago, the government has given a very strange opinion that the protection of workers who report corruption is opposed to the trend of flexibility of jobs, which is at least a bizarre finding because neither the protection of whistles reduces the flexibility of jobs, it is increasing somewhere, and it has nothing to do with each other, and the government is now saying that this cannot ensure effective protection of workers who, in good faith, report suspected of corruption because, according to the Croatian government, at the time of the power of the criminal offence of the employer, will already be covered by age-old deadlines. I really don't understand what they're trying to say with this, but what's for sure is that in addition to this attempt, there is absolutely no other appropriate government move that would protect whistles. If the government finds our proposal inadequate, that it is not adequate to protect workers, then I expected that in the meantime we will get some concrete proposal to protect workers who report corruption, but there is no such thing. It's only being realized that what we're offering isn't going to be effective enough. I don't think that needs a special comment. So, the worker who reports corruption if he is fired reports it to a disputed judge, punishes the employer and thus annuls his act, hence his decision to fire the worker, the worker returns to the workplace and that the decision to resign is invaluable to him for the loss of the salary he lost while the employer was fired and at the same time pays a fine of 100,000 euros as a firm and 10 thousand euros as a responsible person. If the government thinks it has a more efficient mechanism than that, let them offer it. In the meantime, we invite all clubs in the Croatian Parliament to support our bill because for now this is the only one, I repeat the only form of legal protection of whistles in Croatia that we offer. So, another call to the Croatian government if they think they really need to fight corruption then they should firstly fight for the protection of those who had the courage to report it, and these are whistlers through this most effective way and this is through the amendment of the Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70272	Thank you very much. And on the third proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act of Vice-Presidents, the Đurđa Adlesic is a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! Well, it's a good fact that from three different parties, different amendments and additions to the Labour Act have arrived, and I don't think the Government would have been wrong to accept all three in the first reading because there are parts of the laws that significantly improve the current law and I don't see any reason not to be united in the second reading of the proposals that we had the opportunity to hear. In Lesar's colleague, it's a part that's much more accurate than in the bill of law that I've built on a collective contract while HSP's law has better quality-solved the protection of whistles. And the law that I represent was more precise, in fact one of the most important points is not only the ban on working on Sundays or the regulation of collective agreements and the increased penalties for those who break the laws is the special protection of the measures in the mobbing which has one piece and the HSP and the possibility that people who work those days and overtime are single parents, parents with a child up to three years old, single parents with a child up to six years old, parents with severe developmental disturbances, that they are really banned from working on Sundays, holidays and some other day for which the law prescribes that the day is unworkable unless they give written declaration of voluntary consent to work. Then, a safeguard measure for workers who are said to have closed business space for up to 30 days because of the employer’s offence is not a valid reason to fire workers. Indeed, the application of this law could lead to the closure of certain spaces and, as this closure could not be the reason for the employers to resign, we propose this amendment. Then mandatory inspection to be carried out at least twice a year in stores that employ more than twenty workers so that more than ten workers can consider. Then, the protection of the dignity of workers in a new article in Article 30, which prohibits all verbal forms of insult and demeaning of workers who, according to the usual standards of communication, constitute an insult and humiliation. I will remind you that somewhere in the beginning of this year we could read in the press and hear what workers and workers experience in certain private entrepreneurs and, of course, between losing a job and suffering a mobbing, it is clear why they choose to do this second. This law significantly increases fines for offenders, supplementing criminal provisions with penalties for insulting and disdaining workers. It is then insisted on respecting the payment of increased working days on Sundays and holidays or those who do not respect the rights of workers on working vacation. In fact, we started to amend this law after we opened the phone for the "Paid Work on Sundays" action and simulations that we had in order to clear the ban on Sundays would definitely increase unemployment in Croatia, and this is exactly the part of the workforce that is difficult to employ medium professional equipment. As a rule, it's women and women, so-called. Middle-aged people who are very hard to get a job, and they'd be very hard to get it back. However, in an open phone, as many as 673 workers complained of breaking the right to unpaid work on Sundays, but also of unpaid overtime, free days and vacations, so a man who has been employed in a bakery and who has not had a single vacation day in the last three years appeared. And those who responded exclusively insisted not to reveal their identity, which clearly speaks of the fear of losing their jobs. Otherwise, there's also information that we've come up with that workers actually work 58 to 75 hours a week instead of 40 hours at the store, all without compensation. We are pleased that after that action, the State Inspector who initiated the inspections that we continue to hold to be extremely tromical. We hope to be informed of the results of their work. Of course we don't insist on closing down the company, but what we insist on is respecting the law because disrespect causes unfair competition. The fraud of the state, of course, also reduces the state budget and the penalties that existed so far have actually only encouraged such fraud of the state. The data we've come up with is that no employer in the last few years has been charged the maximum penalty for breaking a law that was 190 thousand kuna. Most of the fines imposed were up to 30 thousand kunas or reproofs. It is quite clear what it means for some major stores that they do, especially on Sundays, to earn huge amounts of money and then to cheat on workers get reprimanded. So we would have to believe in the morals of these employers, which was quite an unserious approach. Otherwise, there is also information on how many jobs would be opened to pay for this work under the law. So there is information from 2002 that it would be about opening 12,000 new jobs and in 2004 it would be almost twice as much. So no big strategies are needed, no big changes to the law. It is necessary to respect the laws to be obeyed and to insist on. Are there increased resources in the State budget for the implementation of this law? There's always a legitimate question of who's going to pay. Of course, an increased number of inspectors is needed. This number is definitely insufficient. However, there is information on three thousand new employees, so it would be good to consider, of course, including them in inspection activities, therefore, in this supervisory area. I also have to look briefly at some of the objections that I think are definitely unwarranted according to HSLS, which is that this law is going to be difficult to comply with with the European Union because apparently women are heavily protected by this law. It is indeed an offensive and unspeakable comment because such parallels cannot be worked. We're still missing kindergartens. We still have waiting lists. It's rare that the city has an extended stay. So in order for us to be able to talk about women being equal in, at work we would have to provide them with the possibility of doing the job peacefully. So when that standard is achieved then we can also talk about the standard of legislation. I have no intention of burdening you with any further explanation. And it's so unusual to talk about an important law somewhere at the end of the day. I thank the government that still supports this bill and lets it go to another reading. I hope in the second reading and suggestions we've heard from both clubs they find their place. I believe that this is a good opportunity for the final law to be voted in the House by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70274	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70275	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues can express their enthusiasm on behalf of the HNS Club that labour rights laws have come to the agenda. Some wait a little longer. A little less. Ours has been waiting since February 22nd. And it's not that bad. Adlešić's proposal has been waiting since 10 May. Why some a little longer, some a little less likely those who organise sessions and lead sessions know. But in any case, this topic has come to the Parliament's agenda in this time that is not attractive but according to the state's attorney's record, we actually live in a country where workers' rights and don't violate God knows how much. In 2004, for example, 205 applications were made to a state attorney in connection with the infringement of Article 114. The labour law that speaks of violations of the right to work, non-payment, non-free time and so on. So 205 reported. That's why the state's attorney turned down 104, rejected 12. 67 cases were brought against the court, so employers were convicted. Six were released, and two dropped the court. In that same 2004 prison sentence that was prevented by the team, the article of the law was not condemned by anyone. The fine was sentenced to 52 employers, and the paroled prison sentence, by a paroled pardon of 15 employers. In 2005, as many as 215 appeared, in all of Croatia, 215 such lawsuits. The state's attorney immediately rejected 103 as unfounded, four refused, and now the rest came to court. The court found that 64 cases in Croatia, so 64 cases were indeed violations of labour rights and convicted 64 employers. 7 has been released and 6 applications have been denied. Of these 64 convicted by parole, 17 of them have been convicted. The fine was 46, and one went to jail. Who he is and what he did, I don't know, but he must have done something really scary. He imagines ending up in prison, 1 employer in Croatia who violated labour rights. But the legal proposal we made in the procedure actually deals with this false dilemma to work or not to work on Sundays. I'm not except for some activists who don't actually work on Sundays or weeks, some union activists, I haven't heard any workers who aren't ready to work on Sundays, of course, if they're properly paid. So from that assumption, we're on our way. The key thing in our legislative proposal and the proposal adopted by colleague Adlesic is to regulate the whole matter by collective agreement, so regulation is not only the fact that Sundays are done but also the fact that they pay in a special way. In order to do all this together, it takes someone, that someone is an inspection service, to follow. Unfortunately, as we have seen in the budget, the inspection service has no money to work on Sundays. Inspectors don't work on Sundays because it has to be paid specifically no? It's a government service, it has to be paid in particular. The inspectors don't work on Sundays, so then I can't determine who works, who doesn't work on Sundays? The only way is to introduce a document that will show who worked on Sundays, the official document that so-called. Shechet, that's the one with the eights on the weekday. We've all been filling it out for the last 30, 40, how many years, similar some kind of paper and finding out who was working on Sundays and whether that person was now paid that week, whether a collective contract was concluded and how it was regulated. Another important thing. We can appeal to conscience, we can appeal to whatever you want, but if the law doesn't have a beating, then it doesn't work. The beating provided for by this law is a far-fetched beating is far lower than what an employer who illegally exploits people on Sundays earns. Then she doesn't make sense, of course. If the employer pays ten thousand kuna fines, and he earns at least five times that week, he'll do it again next Sunday, so why not. What's happening to him? One of them ended up in jail, but not yet. So the only solution is that the fine is paid by an illegally employed head. Well, then the employer's gonna think of it a little bit. When the thing is multiplied by factor 5, then 10, then 20, so it's a number that's going to question whether that store has to sell or will continue to work. The government expressed its deep thinking, just like that in the government's explanation, the rejection of our proposal says that the government has deeply considered the situation and is continuing to carry out some deep consultations and has rejected our proposal. With the view that what we propose can be regulated not only by collective agreement but also by other agreements between workers and employers. She didn't do the same thing to her colleague Adlesic. It's commendable, you can see that ideas mature. This came later, and the government came to their senses later. She realized things could still work out. It is evident not only that the government is being remembered. It is also evident that it is very important who makes the proposal and only what it says in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70276	Priors and tempors, potions and iura colleagues. The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70277	Don't defend me, please. Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mrs. Tarzai, the honourable promoters. In Croatia, we consider it necessary for the pensioners to make progress in Croatia and the necessary adoption of these three laws in the first reading, i.e. acceptance by the government in the first reading. That didn't happen, except for one. However, I will now say what I said on the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, which is that the HNS proposal by my colleague Đurđe Adlesic and HSP proposals cost this government nothing. So there are no new expenditures from the state budget, unless under new expenditure is thought to complete the number of labour inspectors and possibly pay some overtime for the inspector. Therefore, there is no valid reason for such improvements to the law not to be accepted which do not require any new allocations or greater separations from the state budget. And they in themselves are improving the control of the situation that is necessary, which is necessary. Well, we don't expect in our dear Croatia that in addition to 300,000 employees, our employees are screaming everywhere unless they are paid an overtime. Well, we don't expect that until we have 300 thousand unemployed at the door to report an employer to either the mobbing or the possible corruption. So people protect the minimum of existence. I don't justify that condition, but I understand them because I lived and worked with them. They're neither ready for a big union organization nor a big fight because they protect the naked existence. Therefore, I think it is the duty of the state to understand the processes in which it is located and to protect the weaker, not that it should only take you once in four years when they are obliged to give a voice to this or that political option. So I'm aware of the problems of union organization and union action because I'm part of that mile because I've spent a good part of my working life in that situation. But, you know, since the beginning of the creation of the Croatian state, it's been a systematic intention that has been going through legislation that we don't have strong unions. And a country that doesn't have strong social partners who are willing and by means of pressure to create their future, pressure towards other partners to create their future doesn't have a very good perspective. For years, it has been systematically working to divide the union scene. And, of course, counterpart Tadic is right to mobbing is present. However, there is no way, mobing it will be stronger as the union whether on a local or on a general plan weaker. It's a causal relationship, and we can't get away from it. And instead of strengthening the weaker, to establish a certain balance between the interest of capital and the interest of labour, I'm sorry, I hope you all understand me, I have to say so. The Croatian pensioner party is a socially sensitive party. The Croatian party of pensioners is a party of work, a dominant party of work. The fact that I am currently in the dominant past work is because of some failures that occurred in these 14, 15 years of Croatian state. But it doesn't mean he doesn't understand the interests of capital. And we believe that Croatia must develop in one balance of these relations, in a quality social dialogue that has been analysed in Croatia, and we are discussing here the proposals of laws for which GSV has not been shown. The Economic Social Council did not have these draft laws on its agenda. Does the Economic and Social Council have to only have government proposals, proposals for laws directed by the Government or by the representatives of us when we prepare such drafts of the law? We didn't have a proposal this morning, nor did we have the opinion of the Economic Social Council or of the Banking Law, although I believe and rated it in front of the Croatian party of pensioners with good law, but I fear we are neglecting institutionalised social dialogue, the meeting place of interest of this government, the meeting place of interest of Croatian employers and Croatian trade unions. Such stable social dialogue can build the future, not impose some solutions. I cannot simply believe that if the Economic Social Council had these three laws on its menu, it would be negatively obvious. It might say that something more needs to be done, but in any case, I think the Economic Social Council would recommend at least if it's in our interest to establish stable relations. I know it's a difficult factor for employers. I know that if we introduce a schizophrenic, you can no longer avoid the truth of how many people do, but sometimes we have to cut it off. If, for example, for the Economic Social Council, employers rebel, there is always the possibility that the government will articulate more interests, long-term interests, and the long-term interest is from the pension system to charge these overtime hours. Not that we have to spend all taxpayers' money on VAT and pensions. There's a pension system income reserve here. Therefore, the Croatian Party of Pensioners will and must support these three laws. Except that we support HSP primarily because we are not convinced that as long as we do not publish in Croatia the forms by which corruption persists and develops, we will be able to fight effectively with it. So I accept good intentions, but I don't see any difference between these two other bill proposals where the final results are seen where they're only positive. I don't see it yet, but in any case, and this bill deserves at least the government to miss it in the second reading, at least to go along with the promoters into the discussion of the so-called. That our internal screening of labour legislation. If we do this deep-cut these laws, I don't know when we're going to, we're going to wear out in these depth analyses instead of going to practical analyses with practical solutions. So the Croatian Party of Retired Wills and Seas, must hang on to all the ideas it represents, support all three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70278	Thank you. HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70279	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HSLS Club fully understand that certain points of the agenda must be done in these unpopular hours when this perception of the public is dropping and when people are actually dealing with other things and we really don't want to see evil intentions, although it might really be for another reading, since it's a very important set of laws, that no one feels hurt and we think that the public needs to know what parliamentary advocates are trying to do in this very important area of one day's life, trying to solve. You see, today it's such a thing that the parties also maintain their conventions that devote exclusively to workers' questions, that it is not, that none of us can be anything that is more than 300 thousand citizens of this country are unemployed, which is a large part of those who do actually do not receive adequate pay for their work and certainly what our colleague Hrelja said well, we must be aware of the moment in which we live and then, but normally it must not prevent us, regardless of all these circumstances which we do not but we can understand, we have the situation that we have and that in fact a whole series of things as well in some other countries that have long since come out of transition and that have actually the labour market and these economic laws are still functioning in one way to say more normally than we do, but certainly as people who vote these laws have to keep accounts. I remember when the ruling coalition in the last term went with its draft Labour Law, that we had a little misunderstanding then, although I was then part of the ruling coalition and then it is thought that by definition you should support what the then government, the coalition government is proposing. Then it was also a small misunderstanding between me and the Social Democrats in that very sense, in the sense that between the interests of labour and the interests of capital in some way prevailed so that the interest of capital, the employers had been, prevailed and it was, beware that I am as a liberal where by definition liberals are always expected to be in the interest of, on the side of capital, on the side of entrepreneurship, it seemed to me precisely because of the situation we had, this is precisely the fact that over 300 thousand people do not work, that we really have to try on this bar legal side to do everything to get into a situation that would first be normal and that would just allow some solutions that exist in some modern Western European countries. That's why we've actually decided on a small-step policy. It's just that this topic is so complex that it can't actually go any other way than that you're kind of listening to the voice of the street, the voice of the public, and you're reacting to it. I have to admit, in fact, that we are actually, within this club and our worldview, and I see that this worldview is working on some other political parties, at all, creating one syntagma of labor. You know exactly in this country that has so many unemployed and yet, I don't know that we're starting to discuss that one day or some days shouldn't work. I think it's actually impossible, but normally what every poll, even those that are being done, shows that people want to work, that no one is running away from work but just wants to get paid well for this work, and if it's really about holidays, weeks, then that this work has to be paid extra. Now, where usually the catch is, that's exactly why this criminal policy of ours seems stimulating, that is, it enables employers to make it very easy to eskicipate and, in fact, to be rewarded in some way rather than punished. And then it's from the fact that people keep their jobs, what they're like, and that's the pay they pay for it. In fact, it's nothing but that naked existential minimum. That they actually shut up about it. The other day we're on this show, "Open," I think my colleague Lesar said that the number of unpaid overtime allows for the opening of 90,000 jobs. You know how when you hear what Balzac would say, nothing stupid as a fact, but this is one tragic fact, if that's true, and there's no reason why we don't trust Lesar, and no one on that show has denied him or read him in any other media. I think it's actually there, that's the cure when you can move your leg and solve those problems. 90,000 jobs actually almost solve 33, most of our problems. So you could hire 90,000 new jobs tomorrow, and I think it would feel very strong right here in the general economic financial flows, the substance of this country. At pension funds, or pension funds, all those funds are just able to create these excess values that could then be transferred later to exactly those activities for which in health, education, education, which we feel is not working right now. And just like us, and the HSLS club and it's moving with one such premise that just these small, tiny shifts, steps trying to solve, try to act if they're being employed... The new 3,000 workers, then among them, in the state administration, then there must be the number of people who will be inspectors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if it's Sunday, then it's unacceptable for this Sunday to be a day off for the inspectors. That they don't actually have, then they don't have something to monitor, something to control that they don't have that day because they don't do it, or to hear that there are few. And that's why we have these problems, so I'm saying, that's what comes down to this information that I'm still saying today, and I hope that someone from both the government and someone else will actually say what might exactly be done with those overtime hours, which is actually potential and what are the possibilities that could really be, not to this government, but to this society, really, really important help. On the other hand, what I think should be welcomed, which is that in our proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act, we are of one assumption that labor is neither a homogeneous category. And it is precisely that within the workers there are a whole series of differences and that these differences, in fact, the legislator must respect the rules of law. It doesn't matter if you have small or big children, whether you have sick children, if you have disabled children. These are all things actually where they show this very high degree of awareness and that is exactly what needs to be incorporated into the law. And that's how you just protect those who are normally in one, I say, of a population, of a class by itself, by definition, always kind of broken down. And I hope the government recognizes it, too. I hope it wasn't supposed to be any deep reading, that there's no secret connection but actually a simple moment of truth and that actually until the second reading and these maybe now proposals that haven't passed and colleagues, I and my colleague Hrelja have the same actually attitude that should be very subtle. That the moment should be felt, that there should be room for whistlers and how the whistlers will pass. We don't actually do that again, and then we have a flood of scandals like whistles to be kind of stimulated to do it, so it whistles when it's right and it doesn't have to. And what's really important is that we just sort out all these relationships in our society, and that's how it's gonna work out in the area of law. And then once again on behalf of the club, we support these initiatives and we believe that by the second reading we'll have already one much better done working legislation and that's actually an assumption, and yet I say, bug in the government's ear if it's really about such a large number of overtime hours that are not paid, let's see what can be done with 90 thousand jobs. Then each of us sitting here, if he has contributed really, then can look into every citizen of the Republic of Croatia and say, you see, and that is one of those contributions, our small small contributions precisely in improving the status of the working class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70280	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review. Does the HNS club want it? Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70281	Thank you very much. We're in no hurry at all. The topics are overwhelming to look at the clock and be nervous because we are discussing Croatian employment. We can work until midnight and without climate, but we didn't call a convention to prepare these proposals in the People's Party. I must repeat and confirm that my colleague Kramarić presented the exact information from my statement and it is only an argument more. Overtime work, working on Sundays and the holiday state must make it more expensive than a regular worker if we have 311 thousand unemployed. We must do everything to stimulate employers to hire people on a regular basis with regular salary and regular contributions to address their labour needs. I can't believe that today's 90,000 lost jobs in overtime last calendar year don't mean anything. That there are no other draft laws, not only the Labour Act but other regulations, implementing regulations, strengthening supervision, tightening the conditions for the introduction of overtime to deal with this problem seriously. Except for the declaration that we're going to do everything possible to get the unemployed a chance to get a job. Three parties, three parts of small steps of intervention in labour legislation instead of depth analysis, and I want to believe that until the second reading, colleague Adlesic will really appreciate what she heard here and that we will then receive a proposal for intervention on the Labour Act which will solve this small step. Of course, I would be happier, which my colleague Silvano Hrelja said, that the economic social council on the agenda had these problems and it might offer solutions, so there would be less need for coordination here in Parliament now and not to be my arbiters... They came together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have enough investment power to encourage employers to open 90,000 jobs, and we can't open 9,000 jobs with incentives. They're here. They are on our market, they are on the existing system, we just have to turn them into jobs and prevent this abuse of labour rights in Croatia. These are our motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70282	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70283	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This brief parliamentary debate has shown that other club representatives, except for our own, feel that the Labour Act needs to intervene precisely at these points that we have looked back on. I would remind here that just over a year ago in the Croatian Parliament, a debate on amendments and additions to the Labour Act was held when we from the HSP club insisted that the issue of work be settled on Sundays, i.e. the issue of the protection of workers "whispers". On this occasion, the Croatian Parliament reached its conclusion, adopted its conclusion on the proposal of the Legislative Committee, in which it was ordered the Croatian Government to, within 60 days, keep an eye on all the requirements made during this debate and to amend the Labour Act to protect workers working on Sundays. It has not been 60 days, but 360 days, and the Government has done absolutely nothing, that we are not saying that, with everything that has been said today in this debate, everything that the Croatian Government has done a year ago and has now stated in its opinions on the protection of the "whispers" that it is actually all expensive to float in the air without any concrete legal solutions. We therefore call on all the clubs of the representatives, and especially those who supported us today during the debate to also vote on this legislative proposal, and we call on the Croatian Government to take this debate into account today when and if it intervenes in the Labour Act during this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70284	Thank you. Vice-President Đurđa Adlesic is the final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it looks like we agreed at least in these discussions that Sunday's work should not be banned but should be paid fairly and legally. I'm going to repeat 80% of what this little inspector did here on Sundays didn't work out went out of date. It's also a matter of justice, and 20% of what has arrived in the punishment procedure were minimal or reprimands. In this way, the state’s cheating was stimulated, budgeting was destimulated, and workers were wronged. Of course it's stronger and unfair competition. What we insist on in this Law is actually to protect this most sensitive category that has worked on Sundays and overtime, these are single parents, mostly mothers, then parents with small children because we do not have kindergartens, we cannot compare ourselves with the standards of the European Union or extended stays, parents with sick children, charge fines in office, and not count on something to go out of date. Protect workers, therefore, from unpaid work, from mobbing, and of course help to identify employers who work under the law. I can call on behalf of the HSLS Club on behalf of both colleagues and colleagues from HSP and HNS, we already have a government promise to make a truly single, quality law that will really enable workers to be paid for their work, not to compete in whose law has passed but to make the law quality, and then when we reopen the phones in a year let the calls be made as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70286	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate on these three amendments and the addition of the law. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HNS. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 68 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 18 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70329	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Mrs. Terze. I am extremely pleased in these almost impossible conditions and in the late hours explain our Bill of Law, Proposal for a Law on Pensions of Croatian citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro with residence in the Republic of Croatia. This law deserves presentation, the widest presentation in the Croatian public to see the whole weight of the problem, one enormous social weight and one violation of human rights, one discrimination against our citizens for which the Croatian party of pensioners estimated to be currently in the worst social situation of all pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. They are our citizens, among them are exiled, among them are refugees, and among them are those who have never lived outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but have worked under circumstances in the neighbouring former republics of one of our countries back then. Therefore, this Law could have been different in the sense that pensions from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro resident in the Republic of Croatia were extended until 31 December 2004 and I had already prepared one such proposal in front of the HSU club, but then we said that a complete solution was sought, not a solution that lasted for a time, which did not therefore in any sense change the figure of the monetary allowance. But let's try to get in line. What happened and what fate did those pensioners of ours go through? First, we go to the time after the independence of the Republic of Croatia on 8 October 1991, a large number of Croatian citizens who made their pension in the republics of the former SFRY except for Slovenia and Macedonia lost their pensions and assets for life because of the inability to conduct payment traffic. Despite all the efforts made by the Republic of Croatia so far to provide them with satisfactory living conditions, none of the regulations had been reached by the final solution to this issue. In talks with the competent minister back in 1992, when the problem was to grow and later to ratify the current social insurance contract, the representatives proposed that these pensioners be taken over into the Croatian pension system on the basis of a solution to their retirement and then the applicable laws and the newly created states be able to resolve mutual claims of pension funds in the context of resolving all other conflict issues, which is then and not later accepted. The overall course of time and the unsatisfactory result of resolving this issue demonstrates that that proposal points to the only safe path for a definitive solution. According to the state in December 2004, there were 21 thousand 521 Croatian citizens resident in the Republic of Croatia who are receiving a pension from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro from the Federation of BiH 9 thousand 765 pensioners, from the Republika Srpska state in which they have never worked 7 thousand 101 and from Serbia-Montenegro 4 thousand 655 pensioners. The average pensions are 593 kuna Republika Srpska, 788 kuna of the Federation of BiH and 915 kuna of Serbia-Montenegro, respectively. In order to preserve their social security, the Government of the Republic of Croatia passed the Pensions Retirement Act for pensioners who made their pension in the former SFRY "National Journal" No. 96/93. ensuring the payment of pensions in the Republic of Croatia in the amount in which the last pension was paid before the termination of payment turnover and whose real value is due to the accelerated depreciation of the reduction by around 40%. The law was applied temporarily until payment traffic was established between the states with Bosnia and Herzegovina, or until the entry into force of the Social Insurance Treaty with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and today with Serbia-Montenegro. Thus, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia suspended the payment of pensions adopted under this law on 30 April 2000. The decision immediately applied to pensioners from Bosnia and Herzegovina in May, and then there was a real drama about the right to pay out pensions. The suspension of pension payments for pensioners from Serbia-Montenegro has been in place since 30 April 2003 and the problem with pension payments and the achievement of bankruptcy rights is the same as the problems faced by pensioners from Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 1 November 2001, the Social Security Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina entered into force and on 1 May 2003. The Republic of Croatia and the SR of Yugoslavia. Those contracts also regulate pension insurance rights and allow pension benefits incurred in the area of one Contracting State to be directly paid to pensioners resident in another Contracting State. The decision on the right to pension shall be made by the State of the last insurance and shall be made by the State in which the insurance company worked and paid the contributions of the taxpayers of the payment of the pension. The social insurance agreements with BiH and the SRJ did not improve the situation of these pensioners, even complicated it because Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia failed to meet their obligations and do not meet their obligations. Often and unfavourable chicing, pension cuts, etc., particularly damaging those who retired before the entry into force of these contracts, so after 8 October 1991. Although the payment of these pensions under bilateral social insurance contracts with BiH and Serbia-Montenegro is exclusively an obligation of the state in which the pension was made, in 2002, by respecting the difficult social situation of Croatia, the Law on the right to add to the pension of certain categories of pensioners to protect the material position of these pensioners during the initial period of application of interstate contracts. This law, which entered into force on 1 May 2002, regulates the right to add pension to Croatian citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia who have been granted the right to retire in one of the former SFRY republics and whose pension has been paid under the Pensions Retirement Act for users who have made their pension in former SFRY republics. The reasons for the adoption are based on the fact that the majority of these users did not regularly receive pensions from the former SFRY republics in which pensions were made or were extremely low, leading this category of pensioners to a very difficult material situation and endangering their existence. The law prescribed a circle of potential users and the conditions and procedure for the exercise of the right to a pension allowance. It covered 10 thousand and 924 pensioners or 66.32% of 14 thousand 743 applications submitted by September 2004. The right to add to the pension and use of that right could have been achieved in the period until 31 December 2004 when the law ceased to apply. So let's try to analyze the current situation. Nothing has changed compared to 2004 and our pensioners who are receiving pensions from Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so they are still exposed to shagging insurance providers from those countries, they receive late pensions, they do not have a solution to the amount of their pension but their decisions say they will receive as many pensions as the competent insurance provider will receive expensive funding for the distribution of pensions. So, I also correct the president who said, mentioning the committees but also the Committee on Human Rights discussed this law and the Committee on Immigration which has found that this is a human rights violation and the Committee on Human Rights has given the green light to this law or to support the adoption of this law, at least in the first reading, to find opportunities in which this problem should be solved. Otherwise, the state of Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro pays 51m kuna and 7m euros per month for its pensioners, at the same time for these 17 thousand, so it pays for 29 thousand and 411 users and for these 16 thousand users, pardon, receives 16 million kuna in the opposite direction. The statistics shown which are official data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute show that the average pensions paid by HZMO in the BIF 2.3 times higher than paid by the Federation of BiH to pensioners in Croatia, and more than three times the pensions coming from Republika Srpska. Compared to pensions coming from 5 pension funds from Serbia-Montenegro, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in Serbia-Montenegro is paying an average of 1.8 to 2.3 times higher pensions. In other words, Croatian pensioners from Republika Srpska who live in Croatia have an average of 3 times less pensions than the average Croatian pensioner, and from the Federation of BiH 2.3 times less. And from Serbia-Montenegro about two times less. When it is known that the average pension in Croatia is EUR 241, only a little more than the poverty line of EUR 214 and below that limit are the pensions of 66% of Croatian pensioners how our citizens who receive pensions from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro survive. We can only imagine it. In doing so, we must not forget that all these pensioners from Croatia, BiH, Serbia-Montenegro, lived, worked and retired in one country, in the same system of working and pension relations and were in the same position. There were only 7 pension funds, but the terms of retirement were in all these funds. In addition, we must not forget that they all worked in a single state in the same system and they acquired equal rights and were dramatically different fates. In addition, the following facts should be pointed out. The Republic of Croatia pays regular pensions for the previous month for all its pensioners no matter where they live. Serbia-Montenegro is three months late for payments. Croatia's pension has the same content, pensions, supplements, lag behind for all pensioners while BiH and Serbia-Montenegro discriminate against their pensioners in Croatia because they do not pay for the supplement but only the pension. Republika Srpska gives pensioners in its area part of a pension in bonuses above the amount of pension, and the corresponding equivalent does not account for its pensioners in Croatia. Prescriptions of the pension solution Republika Srpska delivers as a rule without data on qualifications, work experience and paid contributions from 1 May 2000 did not pay a single pension to the Croatia user in the amount of the solution, but 30 to 40%, 45% lower. These pensioners can't afford their savings in banks. Croatia suspended pension payments for pensioners from BiH on 1 May 2000, and pensions from Republika Srpska arrived only after 7 to 14 months, so some pensioners were left without income for 14 months. In Serbia-Montenegro, pensions are adjusted every three months, in Serbia-Montenegro. For 15 months in the period of 8 months 2003, 9. In 2004, the dinars increased by 23.4%, while pensioners living in Croatia in kunas increased only 4.1%. They're also cut off at the course. The backlog of the occasional increase in pension-inhabitation insurance in Belgrade pays through a pension allowance. For corrections from 1993 and 1994, lags are paid in 80 wars but not for pensioners living in Croatia. It should also be pointed out that many of these pensioners are losing their right to health insurance. Namely, the Federations of BiH, Republika Srpska, Serbia-Montenegro are asking for pensioners to sign off on their own in order to regulate their health insurance status. For most disabled and immobilized, that's certainly impossible. This has already taken away 2,000 health cards from which after exhausting procedures... Most health cards returned to users. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Clearly, this is about continuing ethnic cleansing. It should be stressed that the provisions of the social insurance agreement between Croatia and BiH and Serbia-Montenegro also contain feedback that produce much broader and more serious consequences than Article 89 allows. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This article, namely, provides for the principle that only for particularly justified reasons can only certain provisions of the law have a return effect. In this case, insolvency rights and the legal pension system in which these people have worked and made a pension are denied. Therefore, there is a very questionable justification for the reasons for laying down provisions, such provisions in contracts. We therefore hold to the rightful remarks at the expense of the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia, which leave these Croatian citizens to fight red tape and injustices for the pension funds of BiH and Serbia-Montenegro. It is truly strange that the authorities do not even come from incentives for the state, for the state to fulfil the obligation to protect its citizens and to take over the fight for the correct execution of the contract by Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro under at least the same conditions that Croatia provides on the occasion of payment of pensions to the users of those countries. We hold an unacceptable proposal that a solution to this issue should be sought through the welfare system. Croatian pensioners in former SFRY countries do not agree to be social cases. They are citizens who have contributed to the development of the current states in their work for up to 40 years and thus deserve their pensions fairly. That is why we propose that Croatian pensioners who made pensions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro should be taken into the pension system of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute should take over 21,000 521 pensioners' funds, provide them with decent living conditions and prevent the authority of an authorised institution from respecting contracts and discrimination conducted by pension funds from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. We remind you that representatives of the Association of Pensioners from Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Association of Croats expelled from Srijema, Backa and Banat and the Association of Vojvodjanski and Podunavski Hrvats Zagreb have addressed the President of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Seks, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Jadranki Kosor and received them together with the President of the Croatian Party of Pensions Vladimir Jordan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader, on 2 November 2004. They all received support and certain promises for a permanent solution to this problem. But we're here where we are. It's the whole situation, it's the chronology of events. These people deserve more attention and this topic deserves more public debate. They are a feature of elementary honesty and belief in Croatia's rule of law. If by any chance they wanted to be in the Croatian pension system in another way they could have done and taken a job on one day and on an interstate contract they would have achieved a full Croatian pension. They have relied on this country's solution and the social sensitivity of this country and rightly demand that the steps we propose are now done as we knew best and we have been able to agree with them, and we have nothing against other solutions that are on the trail of lasting solutions for them. However, we would be very pleased to see the Government of the Republic of Croatia respond to this problem, to this challenge and to propose another solution. But in any case, that solution should not be at our party's will, but rather, to political parties and politicians, but to make that solution at the will of my colleagues and dear friends whose representatives are here with us today at the gallery. Therefore, I point only to this fundamental honesty that they did not want to manipulate the system, that, that this state of Croatia at the most difficult time, at the most difficult time of the war received them for their and from their funds, of course from the budget, paid them their pensions and that it was very solid when it was most difficult in Croatia and I cannot believe that today after the expiry of the law on a supplement that was not who knows what kind of solution we have no more social shockers to help these people secure their existence. I repeat, there's a full-time job behind them. These are not people without an internship who would exercise the right to a social or national pension that we also talked about today in this assembly. These are people who are in the then single state with 7 funds, 7 pension funds that have worked on the same criteria to achieve full-time work. And here's the man who was driving the blue train. His colleague, who was driving a blue train and engineers from both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, has more than 3,000 kuna in Croatia for a full-time internship, he has barely 1,000 kunas with a downward trend. Because it depends on how much Republika Srpska will pay him every month, not on how much his solution is because he's gone. So, I think I've given a lot of reasons for the introduction that we're still going to try to explain some things. But in the introduction, I appeal to the Croatian government to deal with this problem seriously. I know I have one among all the parties, and we're not going to single-handedly stand out. I know that people personally feel that we need to help these people and appeal for it, because of this feeling between us, I appeal to the Croatian government it would be good to withdraw my negative opinion to let this into the first reading. But I doubt that's gonna happen. But in any case, let's face this burning problem in the fall. We can't, please, ignore these facts, we can't close our eyes on human rights violations by an institution of another state, because an individual, an individual with such systems, has no chance of survival. And today, Mr. Vidovic told his board the characteristics of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is a dysfunctional state. Then you can imagine, given the lack of regulation of relationships, since there are both entities and different social forms, you can imagine how an individual can choose his right in a dysfunctional state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70330	Thank you very much. For the HSLS club, a respected representative, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. The HSLS Club will support this law for a quality approach and above all we have recognised in the HSU initiative social sensitivity, but also protection of human rights, which is certainly in line with our Constitution, with constitutional principles and the fight against discrimination. And we think the opposite of the government that this law is not contrary to the principles of the pension system. In fact, we must remember the time that SFRY was a unique area of labour and pension legislation, that it could be worked in one republic and that pensions could be received in another. And it is very difficult, and it seems to me to compare such agreements seriously with relations with the European Union, because they simply applied other rules. The non-acceptance of this law actually goes into human rights, but it goes into the standard of citizens and we have to be honest with them and their dignity because pensions are offensively low, messy, insecure and indeed run from several hundred kunas to here we heard thousands of 200 are mentioned. I'll tell you that these few hundred kunas a lot of them receive such pensions is a few of our diaries. I have to remember as the mayor of the city where people who made their pensions in other countries live, and now they're actually taking a pension, some of them reported in the City of 300, 400 kuna. Which means I can't even cover the elemental directories. People with 35 years of internships, 40 years of internships, so full-time internships and basic expenses. It is offensive then to refer them to the Centre for Social Work or local self-government in the departments of social protection. So, definitely this problem must be dealt with systematically by law, and it may also be remembered that these pensioners from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia can be treated, although this is not the best way and as the victims of war. They escaped, exchanged from the camp, lost their property, and they also earned the victims of the Homeland War, because other laws apply to them. Namely, the argument that 92 and a half million kuna from the state budget is not provided for an explanation that stands. But we have a rebalancing. In rebalances there are always projects that are not realised and items on which money remains. And we would have that kind of rebalancing, rebalancing for that purpose and supporting it. A number of 21 and a half thousand pensioners can say it's not much. However, each fate is based on a very liberal principle. And whoever deserves a pension, and we've heard he hasn't cheated on the state, even though there was such a possibility that a case can't be a social case and we call on the government to reconsider its decision or to prepare a joint law by autumn if there's some other model that could be applied from the beginning of next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70332	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70333	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. He said counterpart Silvano that the representatives of these people had received many, including the Prime Minister, and that they had received support. Is that understood by my colleague Hrelja? It is. Here you see dearly expelled Croats from Srijema, Banat and Backa you have received support, support, but not pensions. And I believe that you went looking for a solution to your pensions' problems, not support, and that's already full of attics, basements, that you're already going out the window. As the Republic of Croatia, after 91, we solved the problems of many categories of citizens of the state, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who never paid a single dinar or a single kuna of pension insurance contributions. In this response to this bill and to the committees, the representatives of the Government are also calling for the principle that pensions must come from where they were made, earned and where contributions were paid. But then I must say that the special laws passed by this House in earlier terms have been settled and taken care of by all the federal chamber and the federal executive council and the federal assembly and the federal presidency and everything that has worked in Belgrade. They never paid contributions in Croatia. We took care of the pensions us and JNA who never made any contributions to the labor pension fund. We took care of the army of all wars and of all armies since 1918 who have never paid any contributions, and then it was never worth the principle of retirement from there and where you are and how you earned it. Now it's time for workers from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro, now the principle of where you worked there is what you earned, how much you paid, you'll have such a pension. There's a lot of them, 21.5 grand. Some of them were expelled from those countries and came to Croatia. I must admit that I knew almost nothing about this problem until I received a letter on April 28th this year and the woman I heard on the phone often, I never saw, Bajic Katice from Gunja. Who in her letter, and the old woman, also sent me solutions about her pensions. The woman retired on September 14, 1990. Born in Gunja. She lived her whole life in Gunja, but she worked in Brcko, which was the closest job, because there were no other jobs, as well as 720 of her colleagues and colleagues from Gunja and the surrounding area. A woman retired and has a solution from Tuzla about her pension. Full-time internship. The war, the suspension of payment, the only existence of a special law, the pension service in Vukovar from the Croatian Fund gets a temporary pension. After signing the Social Security Agreement between Zagreb and Sarajevo, so between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the woman received a pension solution from Bijelina. She's never worked in White. White is in Republika Srpska for those who do not know. Because... Brcko doesn't have a pension fund and can't get a pension from Brcko. So someone decided, someone decided somewhere that they had worked in Brcko district that had no pension fund, so they didn't have to pay her pension now to give her a pension from Republika Srpska, so-called. Republic of Croatia... It says Republika Srpska here. And what solution did they give her? If I can read it correctly. So it starts from 1.10.2002. 219 KM a month, I guess that's the conversion marks. Starting from 1.1.2003. 214, but starting from 1.1.2004. 208 marks and that would be good if it didn't. This is how a certain pension is adjusted monthly according to the balance of funds in a fund intended to pay off pensions. And she gets as much as she gets when she gives. Now she was not the one who left Croatia, she was never in Croatia or came or always lived, worked in a social state in Croatia. I understand that we have an agreement with Bosnia, but I cannot accept the fact that no one in Croatia can start talks and say, but listen to the people in Brcko you can't deploy to Republika Srpska. Give them a chance to choose whether to get a pension from the Federation or a pension from the so-called. Republika Srpska. No, I don't. I have asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I have asked three questions, because this agreement provides that the liaison body is a pension fund. Our pension fund. So I asked whether our Pension Insurance Office was going into the process of determining discrimination against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia against those living in Republika Srpska. Secondly, will the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in overseeing the application of the international contract and interpreting the social contract with Bosnia and Herzegovina, propose that citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been granted the right to retire in the area of today's Brcko district will be able to choose from which the Fund on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina will receive pension and finally, which the Social Measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to take as a temporary solution. The government answered me, and I quote: Nor is it lawful for our pension institution to carry out the procedure to determine discrimination against pensioners from other countries. In this case, discrimination would exist if the Republika Srpska insurance provider paid pensions in lower amounts to customers in Croatia than it paid them in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But these people have been proving for years that this is exactly what has been happening, that pensioners living in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory are specifically Republika Srpska, with the money being paid off by small pensions. They don't give them bonuses, they don't have anything to do with it. So they're being discriminated against, they're not respecting an interstate contract. Ours says there's no discrimination. How is there no discination? Well, people prove it's true. They sent the papers, the whole envelope, that Mrs. Lajic sent me where it appears to be happening. Besides, they don't keep it a secret. Republika Srpska authorities acknowledge that part of the pension is paid in nature and bonuses. What does the government still say to me? In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the level of pension is not enough in Croatia either. This is explained by the fact that in April 2006, there are 129 thousand people with the lowest pensions with an average pension of €168 million in Croatia, with a minimum pension of 715 kuna for 15 years. That's what I know, but I'm talking about the fates of people who don't have 15 years of internships, but they're taking 720, how many of those marks are now when I turn into kunas, I don't know. 820, around here somewhere? A full-time job, not a 15-year internship. Guys, we have 21 and a half thousand people who are helpless because of this social agreement. They're covered here by an agreement, uncovered by pensions. And what do we do with them? Finally, the government writes, and remains the problem of unequal payments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Specifically from Republika Srpska where the amount of pensions paid is lower than that in the Federation. So now it's smaller. I want to believe that this debate will serve as the basis for responsible people in the pension institution of Croatia to really do everything to ensure that discrimination is no longer conducted, as a first step. Step two, the government wrote in its opinion that the party's proposal for a pensioner is not good. I'm interested first in whether there's a problem? Do these 21 and a half thousand people really exist? There are. There's six, five. Is it true that they're receiving poor pensions? Is that true? It is. Is it true that they need help in some way? Do you need help? You should. If this isn't good, let's look for another model. Let's see if it's possible by annexing a contract to solve something socially. Is it possible to place them in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia as part of this proposal? Is it possible in a different way to solve their problem without disturbing good neighbourly relations? It is not enough to say, dryly, bureaucratically, the proposal is not good because it is not about the bill concerning white-headed soups and the protection of nature parks. Now there were 21 and a half, 25, 26 thousand. If we stall, there'll be 15 left. What, we really want nature and biology to do, so we'll say no more problems? If we MPs don't know how to write good laws, then let the government help us with the counter-proposal of the law how to handle it. We're playing with the lives of these people and fates, we're scrambling them, and we're saying there's nothing we can do. So they didn't sign the social contract, they didn't blame the situation they were in. What have these people done to help you have these problems today? What did they personally do to you? Nothing. Their congregation made clear the name of the Committee on Immigrants, Immigrants, an apology, that they would be helped. So someone from the Parliament said they'd be helped. Now we have an obligation to help them. I would really ask that after discussing this bill tomorrow or Wednesday's decision. Let's take everybody out, maybe we'll find more for this session, and I think the promoter would agree that in September we have this again in the conclusion of the decision, that we try something for them anyway. That we took over the work of these people by special laws, not a small number, so we wouldn't be wrong. Let's pass another special law, if we had the strength and for the federal chamber, the SIV, the presidency, the assembly, and I don't know what it was, let's do one more. We already have 14 priority categories in the pension system of Croatia that have partially or never paid pension contributions. These are the workers. Even though they were never officials, officials, they never received state medals and medals. Let's go to the end now that they've already gone so far to help with a special law and take them over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70334	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70335	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words on behalf of the HSS Club on the Proposal for a Law on Pensions of Croatian citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro with residence in the Republic of Croatia, which was proposed by the Club of Representatives of HSU. The club of representatives of the HSS will support the proposal of this Law in first reading and vote for it to go to second reading. For what? Well, first of all, I think that we who live here in our country need to take care of our citizens who are in neighbouring countries today, who used to work in the common state because they filled the funds, along with us who lived then, and I think that we should take care because we see that in particular in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia about them, countries that should give them what they deserve, don't give. And that's why the presidents of the associations that are here tonight were with us and were on the immigration committee the other day were absolutely right when they asked for it. We're on the board, here... President here, she hasn't read our conclusion that I think you've all received, that she supports their demands and that we've asked the government for help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think you should say in this debate because here's the president she didn't say. To find a solution to how to help these people because those solutions they get in their pensions fall into the box tragically. If the solution says it's right, I don't know, to pension 200, 300 or how many marks or any currency, but it says down the provision that if there's not enough money in the fund, the percentage will be applied less. So if it's 5% in the fund, it's going to be 5% that month's pension or that was a 30- or 60% of the value. And our country has been giving some support to these people for a while, so we broke up. I think if we don't already accept this bill proposed by a coalition party in power today, then at least we can find the possibility of some kind of support that would allow these people to get at least about what they should get for their well-deserved employment. I think it's a moral obligation for all of us, but since we see what the situation today is that this debate is already here at half nine that talks about it one, two, three people I think is no longer reported, it says that this proposal is probably not going to get the necessary majority, which is unfortunately a finding that doesn't satisfy me personally, and I believe you who are here with me tonight. But I simply think that we need to find a common way and the possibility of helping these people and I appeal to all clubs to support this proposal for a second reading, so let us go to another reading and put in charge of the government in the fall with one conclusion and find an adequate solution for them. I think it would please the representatives of the associations, and I believe all of us to find a compromise solution anyway, if I already have this bill proposal, maybe I don't know for what reasons it doesn't satisfy. It is not enough to know just when some election campaigns come, to promise we take care of Croats from other countries, but we simply have to show it on a practical example, and that is what this proposal is today. It shows how much we care for our citizens from others, who live in other republics or deserve their pension in other parts. This is why I would eventually conclude on behalf of the HSS Club this proposal will receive our votes for passage to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70336	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. He's gone. Mr. Representative Stephen Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief and repeat what I've been saying on both committees. I believe these people are right and that the proposer of this law has made a good proposal. I'm not saying we have to accept everything so much that there may be a compromise solution, but these people don't ask for charity and they don't want to be social cases. They want to be equal pensioners, pensioners like everyone else. They are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian state must treat them as well as everyone else. But the tragedy is in something else. They did not come voluntarily to Croatia to enjoy pensions as JNA officers came. They're exiled and they can't go back to their homes, many would, but they can't, they can't, they'd lose their heads. Therefore, they did not come willingly. They're exiled. And now we have a paradox, those who fired on us got our pension bill full of pensions, went over and enjoyed it, and some went over and they came back and got the difference, so now they're laughing at them and they tell you here's your Croatian state. Well, that's why they can't accept our government's opinion, and we need to find every way that they can even themselves out with the pensioners of all the rest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70338	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bishop Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, too, I will be very brief in view of the temperature in the assembly and the time of today’s work of the Parliament. I would like to say that I really understand the problems of these citizens and that the arguments that the precedent would be done if we included them in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia that same system could seriously violate really do not stand. We've already heard, and I'll repeat, we've already done several precedents and the system hasn't collapsed. It's about state officials of the former state and military security officers of the former JNA. Recently, we also passed the Law on members of the HVO, or their pensions that have never lived or worked in the Republic of Croatia, and will not do so in the future, and the system is standing and is not destroyed. We also have artists who are paid out of the state budget for pension insurance, and have much higher incomes than most citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We've already heard that we need to give these people support. That's nice, but also tragic. Namely, our support if it does not result in concrete solutions to these people will not give bread. It is absurd, for example, that the Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of the Republika Srpska-Dobod on a citizen's request answers among other things, quotes: "Article 130. The Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Republika Srpska is set to be paid monthly on the basis of the raised funds in the Pensions Fund." Therefore, pensions are not paid according to your decision as you seek, but according to the funds collected to pay off your pension. By the way, this citizen has a pension solution of 173 converting marks, and only 100 is paid to him, which is some orderly size of 400 kuna. So, if not permanently, then at least temporarily we need to make a solution, perhaps in the form of a re-establishment of a pension allowance, and give the government the task of finding a permanent solution for these people by interstate agreements or other means. So the decision to pay for a pension allowance would last until the final decision of the Government, but I repeat, we have to react urgently because these people have to eat today and tomorrow and have the right to live a decent man, and they are equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I support the intensity of the proposings and I will vote that this law goes to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70340	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the promoter, I'd like to give myself my own counsel, and since there is no one to chair, then I'll let myself say what I think from here. I believe that this proposal by Mrs. Biserke Perman is realistic and Mr. Bačić, that it is necessary to enable and find a solution so that as soon as possible, it reacts either by an add-on or the like, and that interstate agreements or the possible adoption of the law solves the problem permanently. I would therefore propose to the promoter that, in agreement with the government, a temporary compromise solution, and then a permanent solution, be found by the start of the meeting at the 9th month. Here's my contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I also thank you for a very constructive proposal, which would mean that we would not decide on this bill if I understood your proposal well but would leave this problem open until the fall session of the Parliament to try to find possible solutions. I thank you for this constructive approach. I'll draw something else, I won't be long, but I need to introduce you to the next situation. It goes to our soul, or Parliament, and procedures in the Parliament. Namely, November 9, 2005. The Croatian Party of Retirement requested a credible interpretation of Article 14. Contract on social security between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Article 13. Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Maybe if we got a credible interpretation, maybe we wouldn't even be working on a bill because I'm going to read to you at the end of the story about how that contract article is, so you tell me if I don't understand it, or who doesn't understand it. Look, Article 13 says like this: "Retirement beneficiaries. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:". I get that. So someone has had a 30-year internship in BiH, worked here for a month, he has the right to retire under the law of the Croatian state. There's no dilemma here. That view of Article 13 is very clear to me. However, this 2 says this: "The beneficiary of the pensions made under the legal regulations of one Contracting State which has residence in another Contracting State shall be subject to the legal provisions of that Contracting State and shall provide health care as if the right to pension had been achieved under its legal regulations and to the burden of the competent holder." In the interpretation, the competent holder is the one where the right to retire has been exercised. Now, I just wanted someone to interpret what it says here. In my view, the obligation is for the Croatian state to pay pensions according to Croatian regulations and the debt, i.e. to refund that pension from the competent insurance company. But I allow myself not to be an expert on pension issues, and that's why I asked for credible interpretation, but since it didn't come, we sent this proposal on March 1st because people can't wait. The fact is what you said and what is said here. They're not here by their own free will. They are all social security institutes, or spent on them. The best was by 2000 when they were part of the Croatian pension system under special law. Less good was the Institute therefore additional to the pension or right to add to certain categories. Now no more protection institutes they don't have. I was just begging to be explained what it says here. We either write social agreements in Croatian so that everyone understands them or people don't hide behind the paragraph. It doesn't make sense because people are behind it. Look out, this article 13 says the same thing. See, the beneficiary of the pension referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article from a residence in the territory of one Contracting State whose condition requires the urgent provision of health services by the other Contracting State to those services according to legal regulations and to the burden of the holder of another Contracting State. What does that mean? Look, I understand that the health system and the pension system are two separate systems. However, in the same article, these people have the right to complete health care by having to check out in Republika Srpska, BiH and prove they have the sole residence in Croatia, which means they can forget their memories of that end because they have nothing there anymore, they must give up their past to achieve health insurance. But the fact is that according to this Article 13, they have the right to full health care and the state is refunding that cost from that health insurance provider. How? No matter how much they pay her, while they're in the pension system, the individual is therefore based on an interpretation. I'm not saying this is not what it says or what I'm saying is right or what the government says is right. I asked for a credible interpretation because it's an institute that proves what it says here, but the fact is that here an individual is confronted to fight for his rights with institutions and he has no chance in that situation. And from the looks of it, I'm going to quote you now. Mr. Pavlic Anto was looking for a petitioner from 4.6.2004. You asked us to let you know if there was a possibility of a higher amount of disability pension. In the questionnaire, you point out that your solution provides a pension of 173 converting marks and that it is paid in the amount of 100 converting marks. With regard to your application, we would like to inform you that we have been aware of the pension file and that you have correctly determined the height of the disability pension by solving this branch and that there is no basis to determine a higher amount of disability pension. Article 130 The law on pension and disability insurance of Republika Srpska has been laid down to be paid monthly on the basis of raised funds in a fund intended for pension payments. Therefore, pensions are not paid according to your decision as you seek, but according to the funds collected to pay off your pensions. We these facts where human rights violations are evident can't be seen and can't be heard. So we have to simply react and look for solutions. Of course, we agree with the government's principle that there must be a retirement internship behind each pension, and that is the right principle, but we are also aware that categories that colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned have entered the pension system. But these people are people who have a retirement job behind them. These are men of forty, thirty-five, forty years old, so full retirement. It is fully met criteria that those who have an internship can enter the pension system and have been trained in the common state by common criteria, though in seven separate funds, but these funds have functioned according to uniform principles. We must not ignore the fact that Croatia meets its obligations neatly and that we have the right and this is how the law proposes or intervenes in the function of protecting the rights of its citizens because it is the obligation of the rule of law. The obligation of the rule of law is to protect its citizens from individuals and from institutions that violate their civil rights. And it is the duty of the social state to arrange their living conditions for a decent man in their country. The Republic of Slovenia has set a protective supplement for our pensioners, i.e. its citizens, who are receiving pensions from Croatia. She has guaranteed them a certain level of compensation, a certain level of pension that they can live normally in Slovenia because in Slovenia with a Croatian pension it is difficult or almost impossible to live, almost identical to that of the pension from Bosnia and Herzegovina in Croatia. Maybe a little better. Furthermore, the government's argument that, anyway, the large share of pension costs in the gross social product is simply not standing. When we as the Croatian Government and the Croatian State and we parliamentary representatives will tell the world that we are not a transition country like Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary etc. We are the land affected by the consequences of the imposed war on us. We're not some European country where it's molded and we need to respect some standards. We will long have increased costs in both the health and pension systems because we once lived in a single country, because we had a forced war and these are the consequences and we used the pension system as a social shocker during the war. People were kind of forced into retirement to have some kind of social security thing. That's what we did in our country, the politicians who were then, it wasn't me, but it doesn't matter. That doesn't deprive me of my responsibilities. We live in that country and are obliged to continue to create and build it. But we have to tell everyone. So if these 21 thousand pensioners with this increase in retirement costs relative to Croatia's gross social product, we have an excuse. We have a great excuse and we must say that no one in Europe has had refugees or exiles or passed the war and that they stop comparing us constantly and making us sick. Of course it's true that it won't last forever. These are the pensioners who came like this, the others are hardly gonna come this way and we'll have them on board. For those new ones, the real social agreement will be applied as it applies. But these people, there were 27 thousand when this problem, when we started talking about this problem. There are 21,000 in three or four years. Let me finish with one letter. When someone signs, thank you for working for us beggars. Can we handle it? I received a letter from Baška and says this: To encourage your recent presentation in the Assembly regarding pensioners from Bosnia and Herzegovina that you will advocate that we be equalised and included in the pension system of Croatia, please, on behalf of the pensioners from BiH who, not by our fault, came here, and we worked full-time in the former state where there was a bag at the time, and today we barely survive with the beggar pensions we receive from BiH. We live here and do not think to return because we do not have where, and our own poor pensions and payment of VAT at least a few kunas, we are filling the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and for the Republic of Croatia as it is said that these pensions would amount to 92 million kuna, that is by half a year, and that is in the bill of law, I have to be precise in half a year, it would not be a big point in relation to some items of budget that could be reduced. Thank you so much on behalf of our beggars and continue to fight for us. Even if someone signs it, so can you have a heart not to see it and not to hear it. And this is what I'm done with. I thank all those who have given public support and all those who know how to support and will support this law and will support the quest to find a solution in the way proposed by Mr. Vice President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70344	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70345	Proposal for a law on pensions of Croatian citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro with residence in the Republic of Croatia. The bill promoter is the Club of Representatives of HSU. In accordance with the proposal of the Immigrant Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. The vote on the Proposal for a Law on Pensions of Croatian citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro with residence in the Republic of Croatia is delayed, the first reading since there are indications of violations of human rights of Croatian citizens in respect of pension insurance rights is proposed to determine the actual situation. The legislator is called on to find, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a solution as quickly as possible and then a permanent solution to this problem. Please, let's get on with it. Let's go vote. The result? I find that with 82 votes for and 2 against the proposed conclusion. Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system pursuant to Article 267. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system given at the request of Joza Rados. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 66 votes for, 3 abstentions, 17 against, the proposed opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70346	We move to - Proposal for a law on doubles of the Law on Croatian Television – Proposer of the PGS, SBH and MDS Club, first reading, P.Z. No. 448 You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. There is no representative of the proposer. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70347	Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Radio-Television. Proposer of the Law is the PGS Representatives' Club of SBHS and NDS. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Radio-Television proposed by the PGS Representatives' Club of SBH and NDS is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. A result? 79 votes for, 6 abstentions, 7 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70348	When the promoter doesn't have what we can do. - Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties – Proposer Vesna Škara Ozbolt, first reading of P.Z. No. 449 You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does he? There's no proposal. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official who doesn't also want to take his word for it? No, I don't. There's no record of a hearing, and I'm closing the hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70349	Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties. Proposer of the Law is representative of Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law on the financing of political parties proposed by the representative Vesna Škare-Ozbolt is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. I beg your pardon? A little concentration, please. The result? With 71 votes for, 8 abstentions, 9 against, the proposed conclusion accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70350	Proposal for a national anti-corruption strategy – Proposer Vesna Škara Ozbolt You accepted the proposal into the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of the National Strategy. The proposer's gone. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Mr. Representative of the Slaven Letica, who also doesn't have one. There are no others reported and I am concluding a debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70351	Proposal for a National Corruption Prevention Programme. National Programme Proposer Vesna Škara Ozbolt. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal of the National Anti-Corruption Programme proposed by representative Vesna Škara Ozbolt is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 71 votes for, 8 abstentions, 6 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70352	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Political Parties – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSP, first reading of P.Z. No. 364 You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the Proposer want a representative? He does. Mr. Representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70353	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party of rights, its club in the Parliament last year proposed and submitted to the procedure of this Bill proposal and let me show in a few lines for phonograms our reflections on the reasons for which we have proposed this law. The Constitutional Assessment, the basis for the adoption of this Act, is found in the Law in Article 2(2), subparagraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia: "The political parties in the Republic of Croatia act in accordance with the Law on Political Parties on the basis of the provisions of the cited law in Croatia are registered 102 political parties." This was written last year, probably now there are more. "The registered political parties have the property of a legal person. They also have the right to political action, the right to media representation, the right to equal participation in elections and other rights defined by law. However, most of the registered parties did not participate at all at the inter-party level. by participating in the elections, or through a statement of initiative, or similar, or on an intra-party level. in accordance with the obligations of the party bodies defined in the Statute of the party concerned held in the administrative offices. This also raises the issue of so-called media freedoms and equal media treatment of political parties. There is a huge disagreement in Croatia on this issue and is often subject to objections and requests from international institutions. The issue of equal media treatment of parties is particularly highlighted during the election promotion. Political parties are the cornerstone of the democratic structure of society and therefore it is necessary to ensure efficiency, an effective way of financing them, which is largely open to the public. The sensitivity of political party financing issues during and outside the electoral promotion requires the existence of a strict regulatory framework for this issue. In particular, the problem of foreign donations to political parties is a significant problem. monetary or material contributions to political parties by foreign citizens i.e. of foreign natural or legal persons. Basic issues to be addressed by the proposed law are how political parties are set up and registered, insight into the financing of political parties, and prevent the financing of political parties by means from abroad. The adoption of this law will result in the introduction of order on the political scene in Croatia. The number of political parties in Croatia will inevitably be reduced. The law will allow the removal of political parties from the register of those who do not have the support of the electoral body in Croatia. What we specifically propose is what is most interesting is the introduction of a provision which would oblige political parties to present 10 thousand signatures to the competent national authority within a specified time period of 6 months. This is how we propose to ensure higher criteria for the content of what we call a political party and thus get more serious into the upcoming elections. Of course, we didn't make it up on our own in HSP. There are a number of models in the democratic world and we have taken over the experience of those who have thus secured a serious political scene with political parties without or with reduced ability to manipulate voters which is growing and greater in view of the growing number of parties and independent candidates in each election. Of course, there are other models, but so far no one has suggested them. We have decided on this, for example in Bosnia and Herzegovina there are no specific restrictions in the establishment of political parties, noting that the development of democracy still introduces the International Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina but that the so-called co-ordination there means that those parties who want to go to the elections must pay a significant source of material resources to prove their seriousness in joining the elections. We propose this one other model that is not expensive, which only requires a little, little effort and we suggest that you support our Bill's proposal in, with the belief that after the adoption of this Act, the Croatian political scene with a smaller number of but more serious parties whose funding will be more transparent and have what we all want and this is a serious election race. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-06-0.u70354	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP club respected Vice-President Mato Arlovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her word. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's losing his word. He's gone. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 10 and 30, 10 and 30 with the proposal for guidelines for the application of public-private partnership contractual relations. At 10:30. After that debate, we will vote in, as soon as possible, on the points. It's 10:30 tomorrow night's session. The session was interrupted in 20.54 hours. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on political parties. The proposed law is the Club of HSP Representatives. In accordance with the government's proposal, I am voting for the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 74 votes for, 2 abstentions, 10 against. The proposed conclusion accepted.
