ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u75993	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Let me get that before I take it... The report on the 2007 Budget Proposal tells the President of the Government of Dr. Ivo Sanader who intended as Prime Minister to address this House High and present the budget for 2007 but because of a pre-arranged appointment for the opening of one of the most important infrastructure facilities in the Republic of Croatia that have been made in the last few years, and we can certainly say with the trans-European Ernestinovo station one of the most important energy facilities and this is the Fažana-Zagreb gas pipeline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, his apology and request to respect it and then allow me, as Minister of Finance, to explain the draft budget for 2007 on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The budget that comes at the first time the Republic of Croatia has successfully completed a "stand by" arrangement. With 15.11.2006, definitely the Republic of Croatia successfully completed its last "stand by" arrangement and this is in a certain way the recognition of international financial institutions both to this government and to the Republic of Croatia. So the budget, the 2007 Budget Proposal, is the basis for achieving key government policy specifics through investment in equality and regional development, promoting entrepreneurship and business environment, investing in education and science, strengthening social justice, preparing for membership in the European Union and promoting sustainable economic growth and preserving stability. In order for all of this to happen, conditions must be created. First of all, I would like to stress that this budget is definitely the establishment of a state treasury. Increased transparency of public finances and definitely eliminated all, all parafiscal transactions and increased regular reporting on the state of public finances. Let me say a few macroeconomic indicators as the environment in which this budget was proposed for 2007, as well as the forecasts of macroeconomic developments in 2007 as the basis for which we believe this budget will be implemented. First of all, we expect economic growth, and all indicators say this in 2006 about 4.6% in the medium term, and in the medium term, we are primarily based on the continuation of key structural reforms, investment in infrastructure, private sector investment and, of course, positive effects in the European Union accession process. It should also be noted that this year we have recorded the lowest unemployment rate in the last 10 years regardless of whether we are talking in percentages as measured by the traditional way reported by the State Statistics Institute, that this rate is 15.7% or if we are talking about... The unemployment rate that was 11.8% in the first 6 months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And she's the lowest in ten years. I also want to say that one of the key objectives of this government is to slow down the growth of total foreign debt has been achieved. It has not been stopped but its annual growth has slowed since previous periods so that in July the foreign debt has been reduced by EUR 274 million. EUR 392 million was reported in August, and annual debt growth slowed from 13.2% in June to 12.2% in July. It should also be said that the state has made a contribution to the reduction in actually fiscal, to the slowdown of external debt growth by reducing the fiscal deficit and by borrowing on the domestic financial market, thus encouraging and deepening the domestic financial market, and that is why today the state can finance all its transactions without a problem on the domestic financial market. This is why today on the Croatian market without problems and the inclusion of the oil company INA on "EPO", this is why other transactions in the Croatian financial market were carried out in the best and most qualitative way. It should also be said that the foreign debt of the state in 2006 is reduced by EUR 474 million for the first 9 months and when you look at the State budget data as much as the funds for interest at the position of the Ministry of Finance for debts raised from previous years and their annual growth then you will see that the old loans that have been refinanced this year have been made on far more favourable terms than their previous debt since we have practically a slight growth in the funds needed to finance the interest. The total foreign debt ratio also fell from 28.5% in July of the previous year to 24.2% in July this year. So this only confirms this thesis as good, the correct decision of the Government to finance all its needs on the domestic financial market. And here I would like to stress, because it is often the thesis that the state in such a way indirectly forces banks to be in debt outside to buy the securities of the Republic of Croatia on the domestic market. That's just not true. When he looks at who the customers of the securities issued by the Republic of Croatia are, then you will see that they are at least buying from business banks, rather than buying from institutional investors. So, that claim that the state is not in debt, but because its bonds are purchased by business banks, they're simply in debt, it's not simply not standing, it's not true. So the state has two decisions. One strong fiscal adjustment, that's a deficit reduction. The second is the decision to finance the deficit on the domestic market and has had a major impact on fiscal policy measures to slow the growth of foreign debt. What I also want to point out is what is in the proposal for this budget is visible, and this is the continuation of strong, fiscal consolidation. So we managed to reduce the deficit from 6.2 to 3% in three years. And what I want to say openly here, the budget deficit for 2006 will certainly be 3% and I am responsible for saying that there are no hidden, no parafiscal financing and that there is no expenditure that anyone could say tomorrow and say that it is not a deficit. And I must also say that since this is an extremely professional category, it often accepts political notes that it is all according to methodology, according to the Budget Law that was passed before this government, so in 2003. Certain stories that some allegedly owe something, you got a draft budget and you see what makes up the consolidated budget of the Republic of Croatia, which makes the central state budget. So we can't say that some company owned by the Republic of Croatia to make its obligations etc. should be put in the budget. Because it simply does not stand and cannot be talked about by any methodology used by European Union countries or any other. So we managed, yes, in three years to reduce the deficit from 6.2 to 3%. We managed to establish the State Treasury, we were able to eliminate parafiscal funding. So look at this brochure that we have issued, if we want to bring the budget closer to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia just an example of how much in the 203 budget there were funds for the Croatian Railways, if how much is in the 2004, 20005, 2006 and 2007 budgets, then it will be clear to you how and how some things have been financed. The deficit reduction is also forecasted in 2007 to 2.8%, and the share of the general government's debt in the gross domestic budget begins, the pardon begins to decrease and we expect that in 2009 it will come below 40% of the share in the gross domestic product. And the planned deficit of 2.8 gross domestic products in 2007 means the second year in order to meet the conditions, the Mastricht criteria for entry into the European Monetary Union. And when someone says it would be with an increased deficit or why it is going into such a strong fiscal adjustment that certain projects should be financed, I say it is clear that the deficit is a very dangerous thing, and if it is not kept under control, it can have extremely negative and inconspicuous consequences for each country, as well as for the Republic of Croatia. After all, when he looks at the last explanation given by the leading Japanese rating agency to increase the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia, then they just listed what I was talking about. And that's why all our political bickerings convince each other that the deficit is one or the other, that fiscal consolidation is not done, then the question arises is whether all these international credit rating agencies are blind, don't they know their jobs and on what grounds they're making this decision. And at the end of the day and the conditions under which companies, primarily on the highway Zagreb-Rijeka Croatian highway and the Government of the Republic of Croatia can receive funds today on the financial market, clearly indicate that these indicators are correct. Because if this wasn't like this then surely under these conditions we couldn't be in charge. So, what we propose in the 2007 budget regarding deficits. We suggest that the deficit of the central state remains at 1.7%, that the deficit outside the budget funds, I mean first of all the Croatian roads and Croatian highways be 0.8%, and that the 50 largest units of local self-government that are accounted for in the consolidated deficit of the state have a deficit, a allowed deficit in the next year of 0.3%, and all together when we add up, this is a general government deficit of 2.8% of the state budget. The revenues of the state budget in 2007 rose by 8.6 billion kuna compared to the rebalanced budget of 2006. Here I have to say that these 8.6 billion kunas are the revenues of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but I am not talking about that part of the contribution that has been in the budget for 5 years but only about that part of the funds that was served by the Croatian Institute of Health, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office exclusively for technical operation. So some of that money and these 8.6 billion kuna. The growth of budget revenues in 2007 was determined by the expected pace of economic growth, by increasing investment activities in the Republic of Croatia, but we hope evenly in all Croatian regions. What I would like to point out in particular is that we also want to continue in 2007 to affect part of the grey economy cake. Therefore, even better supervision of taxpayers, better and better quality collection of state budget revenues, we expect to reduce the share of grey economy in gross domestic product. At the end of the payment of revenue of 10.5% in the first 11 and a half months, in fact 10 and a half months this year, which is the largest annual growth in Croatia at all clearly shows that with the economic activities that have an effect in the state budget, this can be seen by certain fiscal revenues that may be some kind of reference size for assessing economic activities. It can also be seen that the effect of a different way of organising, different concerns about the collection of revenues from the state budget, so in 11 months this year we have 10.5% higher revenues than in 2006. Also by increasing employment which will affect better income and contribution tax payments and by developing business business business activities in 2006 which will affect revenue growth in 2007. And as you've seen from the state budget proposal, so you're planning an income of 103 billion kuna. Most of the income is planned from the value added tax of €37 billion, from the contribution of €36 billion, from the profit tax and from the part of the decentralised income tax, which will later be transferred to local self-government units and as the 9 billion kuna and excise duty fund, and we can say that 4 are the highest revenues of the state budget. What we said and when we called the 2007 budget for the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia in this booklet, which we have tried analytically to work out and to warn about certain projects financed from the state budget, the objectives of government policy are clearly reflected, and this is primarily the promotion of entrepreneurship and business environment, the creation of a positive business environment and the strengthening of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, investment in science and education. The budget of science and education is growing this year 9.3% or in four years the government's mandate has increased 33.7% or from 7.8 billion to 10.4 billion, or nominally, when you look at 2.6 billion, the budget of science has increased in four years, but not 2.6 billion to some 20 or 30 billion, but to 7.6 billion as in the 2003 budget. The 2007 budget for science and education forecasts 10.4 billion or four-year growth in 33.7% or an annual growth of 9.3%. Investment in regional development through fairer distribution of tax revenues and direct contributions from the central state in regional development, regardless of what criticisms have been made to the Law on the financing of units of regional and local self-government, will thus be transferred directly from the state budget with the basis of the share of income tax to units of local self-government 300 million kuna. For entrepreneurship, an increase in funding is projected in the following year, 300 million kuna, and I would particularly like to point out subsidies in agriculture which, with a billion and 660 million in 2003, grow to two billion and 459 million in 2007 and that is an increase of 800 million kuna or a 50% increase compared to 2003. What I was saying about science and education. Higher education had a budget of 2003 billion and 667, with a budget of 2 billion and 379 million today. Raising and education had a budget of 5 billion and 70 million, today has a budget of 6 billion and 700 million, or if we look at only education and education has an annual growth in the 2007 budget compared to 2006. 10.1% of the funds. So through the resources allocated to the islands, which are areas of special state care, funds invested in restoring the development of the water supply system and other regional programmes are increased projects for the more balanced and regional development of the Republic of Croatia, primarily Croatian islands and areas of special state care compared to the budget last year by 946 million kuna or from a billion and 80 million as in the 2006 budget to 2 billion kuna in the 2007 budget, and this is an increase if we look at a percentage of 87% or if we look at nominally 946 million kuna. Also, what I would like to emphasise, which is characterized by this budget, which is social sensitivity, because by strengthening social justice is one of the key objectives of economic policy, and it is primarily achieved towards the policy of this government, which is a national population policy, and so the funds for the child's allowance where the base is first increased by 325 million, the maternity benefits of 165 million, and free textbooks will be financed for the first time from the 2007 budget by 240 million kuna, with the fact that I want to stress that for the first time since 95 or 96, when Croatia has had one year of free students, we will be able to get free students from the area where the social moment is far less pronounced because, unfortunately, we now, we have a situation for rich units of local self-government to finance and co-finance the purchase of school textbooks to students and their parents. However, this government decision next year will give all primary school students free textbooks regardless of the power of their local self-government units. High school students will also receive free homes and free student transportation. What should not be ignored in this budget, and that is something that we all need to take care of and account for, is the financial implementation of pre-accession programmes and the assistance of the European Union. I must say that the bodies of the state, the ministries have carried out extremely well the process of obtaining accreditation for all three pre-accession funds, but it is now up to us all to allow entrepreneurs and farmers with quality programmes to make use of as much grants as possible of the pre-accession fund, because let us not forget every euro we receive from the pre-accession fund is grants that are practically direct assistance in and in structural changes, as well as in the development of the Republic of Croatia. And our wish is also the goal of reaching a 90% utilisation or if we could use the 2003 CARDS programme, which has been spent for the last three years with practically 97.7%, then I don't see any reason why we all try to make use of and the pre-accession funds of the European Union not one extremely high percentage because we have positive and negative examples from countries that became members of the European Union two years ago. That some who were well prepared had a very high rate of usability, and those who did not have it, had a relatively low rate of usability. So ladies and gentlemen, this is the 2007 draft budget. In addition to the budget items provided for in this budget, in addition to the guidelines of the public and private partnership project. I think that the government has also created financial conditions for the balanced and better development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u75994	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u75995	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Minister Shuker who found the 2003 deficit to be 6.4%. The deficit for 2003 is 5%, and we can also read this in the documents related to the Budget Proposal, given that in 2003 it is always marked with one point. That dot or star is just a political reckoning from the government with the 2003 figures. We can say that the reduction from 5 to 3% is also a contribution to fiscal discipline and, I would say, the battles of reducing deficits but speaking unclean language, speaking different criteria, speaking unfounded numbers is really something that the minister should not allow, especially what the existing documents are 5% was always for 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u75996	Second correction, honourable representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u75997	It is an incorrect claim made by Minister Shuker that there is no parafiscal funding. There was, and there will be. First of all, on the return of debt to the retired. For the first tranche, the government was in charge, so the question is, who's actually in charge of the pensioners? A bank like the government claims or states? If it's a state, then it should've been shown through the budgets. For another tranche, the property of the pensioners themselves was sold. They took it from them, they sold it to get some of the pensioners back. In this budget we do not see a return on the pensioner's debt, therefore, if this debt is to be continued to return, if the Government will continue to pay back then it will have to be parafiscal because it is not here in this budget. Therefore, Minister Shuker's claim that there is no parafiscal funding is completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u75998	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u75999	Thank you, Mr. President. The constant movement of some deficit from 2003 to 6.2, so it's said 6.3 last night, etc., doesn't make much sense even for the HDZ government more after 3.4 years the same way as it wouldn't make sense if I were to say that in 2000, there was 3 times more than 2000 in dubiosis. But I want to correct here at least one next very simple fact. She's actually from pure simple arithmetic. Last summer, the State Statistics Institute published definitive data on the growth of social product. In 2003, growth was 5.3, not 4.3. In 2000, it was 5.6, not 5.2. By the way, you're planning 5% growth to reach possible 2009. Look, if this is official data, then all the coefficients that are derived from this are that data. If the social gross product has grown a quarter faster in growth, then just a little arithmetically correct that bill. Then this isn't 6.2. It's much less.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76000	Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76001	Well, I will correct this statement by the minister that he is responsible for saying that there are no outstanding commitments from the budget. Namely, he is denied by scouts who can be invoiced by performed works on highways, except, possibly internally, with their cooperatives doing invoices. Therefore, there is no payment in full of agricultural incentives because the budget does not provide sufficient resources and Minister Cobankovic himself says only 75% of the wheat incentives have been paid. Let's remember, one former minister said there were no unpaid bills from the budget to determine the 9 billion debt at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76002	Next correction, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76003	I am correcting Minister Shuker's allegations that this budget has significantly increased funds for education and science and technology. In fact, funds in the share of the budget remain at 8.9% as they were before, as the minister spoke about increasing the budget for education, he forgot to say that since 2003 the budget has been 80 billion, that it is now 110 billion. That the share of the budget for education and science is reduced in the overall state budget from year to year. Minister, if it were what you're saying today, the educators wouldn't strike and you wouldn't have succeeded what nobody has done so far, which is to unite but absolutely all the educational and scientific unions. You also forget to say that cumulative inflation grew 16%, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76004	And the esteemed representative Bozidar Pankretić, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76005	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Secretary said the debt isn't being transferred. I think it's an incorrect quote because he knows, too, it's Mr. Secretary of State Kovacevic when we had the debate, 70% of the agricultural budget was spent in the first six months. What is now paid by the 10th month, 11 months will objectively remain to pay almost 800 million kuna. I can tell you that, capital investments haven't been paid for six months, they'll be left to pay for full livestock, they'll be left to pay for war cultures, primarily corn, the last 3 months of milk, and that's a lot more than those charges that were then from 2003 to 4 and it means a lot above. Therefore, the debt is transferred and should be re-valorised because it would be very bad if it didn't happen to be paid in the following year. We know what a disaster that would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76006	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a few notices. Seven representatives' clubs and 41 MPs and MPs applied for this debate. It's 42nd, the club yes. Okay. It's not time to log in yet, it's not time. Second, today's debate would lead to 13:30 and take a break by 15 hours and then 15 to 22 hours. On Thursday, tomorrow, we would continue a clear debate, with amendments to the Budget Proposal and the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget being submitted by 15:00 p.m. on Friday, 24. Friday 24 to 15 hours, otherwise the debate on amendments to the budget and the budget itself would be held on 1 December, 1.12. Therefore, to pass the necessary and three-day deadline, not counting the deadlines when the debate is concluded even the day it begins so that there is enough time for the amendment to be submitted and to prepare for the debate on amendments and on the budget for the vote. Reporters of the working bodies Committee on Legislatives, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76007	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government. At its 82nd meeting on 21 November 2006, the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee discussed the proposal for a State Budget for 2007 with proposals for the 2008 and 2009 budget projections as well as the proposals for financial plans with projection proposals for 2008 and 2009, which were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 14 November 2006. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. At the same time, the Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament agree on the financial plans for 2007 and that of Croatian waters, Croatian highways, Croatian roads, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of banks, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. At the same time, the Committee proposes to draw the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: the Parliament's professional service is authorised, together with the proposing representatives, to carry out a revision of the text of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 and of the financial plans before their publication in the "National Journal". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76008	Thank you. Committee on Finance and State Budget, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76009	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The conclusions of this Committee are easier than those before, but as far as the annual budget is concerned, let me inform you about the Committee's views. The report contains a budget for 2007 and a projection proposal for 2008 and 2009 as well as proposals for Croatian waters, etc. Not to count these eight points, but to contain. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 61st session held on 21 November 2006. The proposal for a state budget for 2007 with a draft budget projection for 2008 and 2009, and submitted an act to the Prime Minister on 14 November 2006. Introductory representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the State budget for 2007 plans to raise 103 billion 489 million operating revenues, representing an increase of 8.4% compared to the projected, projected revenue size for 2006. Most of the income refers to tax revenues of 56.9% of total income. This increase is slightly more than the average of the growth in previous years beyond that and because the revenues of the state budget have been increased by the amount of social security funds that have entered the State Treasury system since 1 January 2007, i.e. the coverage of the state budget. The revenues of the 2008 State budget are projected at 110 billion 400 million and for 2009 at 117,542 million. The total planned expenditure of the State budget for 2007 is 108 billion 86 million, made up of operating expenditure of 103. Costs for the purchase of non-financial assets of 3 billion 285 million, loans amounting to HRK 999 million, minus repayments of HRK 291 million and principally planned for €232 million. In accordance with the 2008 and 2009 projections, the total expenditures of the state budget would have increased by 6 and a half percent so that total expenditures for 2008 amounted to 115 billion 385 and 2009 respectively. As a result, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, According to the planned revenues, the expenditure of the State budget in 2007 will be around 4 and a half billion, because it is written, so I do not read it, or 1.7% of GDP, which will ensure that the deficit of a consolidated general state is achieved at 2.8% of GDP level. In 2008 and 2009, the deficit of the state budget will be further reduced to 1.6% of gross domestic product. After the opening presentation, there were discussions, and here are two of them, so I say a conditional opposing attitude. First, the union made the following remarks. The 2007 National Budget of the Republic of Croatia and the proposals for projections for the next two years provide no adequate means for the implementation of public administration reform aimed at establishing an effective public administration based on expertise and political impartiality. Namely, the proposed funding for salaries in the state administration and public services is insufficient and demotive, it will cause whether the outflow of high-quality and highly educated personnel. Secondly, on the basis of an estimate of the number of users, the funds for unemployment benefits have been reduced, and the current amount of the thousand kunas most certainly do not guarantee the achievement of the indirect objective of social justice, it is thought of that group. The planned growth is a 6.7% pension growth compared to the previous year, but is a means of equating pensions for new pensioners who are 1.1.'99. With the retirement of old pensioners, they are not secured in this budget, which will lead to further increases in poverty in that category, according to the said opinion. And the next view, macroeconomic indicators suggest an acceleration of the real growth of the gross domestic product to 4.6% in 2006 and 2007 and a reduction in inflation planned at 3.2% for 2007. Such expectations are the result of other growth in industrial production, retail trade and construction activities. The expected economic growth and drop in inflation rates in the coming period have created a basis for planning this State budget of 108 billion 86 million, noting that the amount includes social security funds, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, the Croatian Employment Institute. According to the opinion, the proposed items of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 are realistically planned and will ensure the functioning of the State in the coming period. After the debate was held, the committee voted in favour of, 2 votes against the Croatian Parliament to propose the adoption of the State budget for 2007 and not to read these next 8 decisions made in the introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76010	Thank you. Committee on Tourism, chairman of the board, respected representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76011	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 36th meeting of the Committee held on 21 November 2006 a proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with projections of the 2008-2009 budget submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 14 November 2006. The Committee on Tourism considered the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with the projection of the budget for 2008-2009, on the basis of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 69. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the section relating to the financing of activities in tourism. During the discussion, committee members supported the increase of planned funds to increase the competitiveness of the tourism market. For the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in tourism, a particular incentive for success is also an important one for the development of rural tourism and for putting cultural heritage into the function of tourism. In particular, the president pointed out the lack of the project "Croatian product for Croatian tourism" or measures and incentives for the development and placement of domestic indigenous products that should enrich the tourist offer, obtain good economic effects and also participate in the design of a Croatian economic image. After a substantive debate, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to bring the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with a budget projection for 2008 and 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76012	Thank you. Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, chairman of the board, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76013	Mr. President, Mr. Minister! The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry discussed the 46th session of the National Budget for 2006 with projections in 2008-2009. The Committee held a hearing as an interested working body. Following the opening statement of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy, the committee covered the part of the 2007 State Budget proposal relating to its part-time work throughout the debate. In the debate, the proposal for a state budget relating to agriculture was assessed as good as the funds for the same increase compared to 2006 cca. For 15%. However, some committee members in the debate pointed to the problem of the dynamics of budget spending for certain purposes in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. This primarily refers to the aid for agricultural aid. Namely, it was stated that in the first six months of 2006 cca was spent. 70% of the funding provided for support in agriculture. That investment support or support for capital investment is not paid for half a year and that there will probably not be enough funds to pay off all promotional cultures in 2006 and that the commitment will be transferred in the following year. It is therefore considered that if, for certain cultures, they pay off incentives at a maximum level such as that. For wheat, structural disorders may occur. In this case, for other cultures for which users are also entitled to incentives, they shall be placed in a subordinate position of future means of paying off incentives for them no longer exist. So the data was provided that it was structural... manifested in the olives because their radiation was reduced by cca. 30%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The debate gave a principle of opinion that it was more cost-effective for agriculture to encourage a much smaller number of cultures. It draws attention to the need for a swift reform of the system of support in agriculture, and this is done in the countries of the European Union. by introducing support for family farms. Although the 2007 National Budget proposal provides for a slight increase in fruit growing funds for some board members, it is doubtful whether it will be sufficient for the need for an operational programme to raise multi-annual plantations. It is also proposed that funds should be provided for the construction of the fruit office building as it was done for the Plant Protection Office. On the basis of the debate held, the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Forestry decided to support the adoption of the 2007 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76014	Thank you. Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76015	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 82nd session held on 21 November 2006 discussed the 2007 proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia in the section relating to the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Office of the National Security Council and the Security Intelligence Agency provided to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In his presentation, the Government's representative presented macroeconomic economic frameworks for the adoption of this year's budget, the main objectives of the budget and the structure and evaluation of the movement of public debates. He pointed out that the 2007 proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is based on positive macroeconomic indicators for 2006 and the projection of macroeconomic economic indicators for the next period. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Security Intelligence Agency, the Security Intelligence Agency and the Military Security Intelligence Agency and the Office of the National Security Council are individually explained the planned budget items and have declared that the resources provided for are sufficient to carry out all the tasks and activities established in the following year. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76016	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection? The Committee on Information, Information and Media? War Veterans Committee The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, Committee Chairman Marko Turic. [[Intruder: He's gone.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76017	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 63rd meeting of the Committee held on 21 November 2006 discussed the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with the Proposal for Budget projections for 2008 and 2009 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 14 November 2006 to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The introductory explanation was submitted by the applicant's representative. Most of the debate followed was held in part of the budget relating to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and associated institutions. The debate pointed out that this budget also shows social sensitivity because the allocations for health care and social care are increasing year by year and thus increased by more than 9% by 2007. This way, by means of means of insurance, the board's opinion will continue with the start of capital investments and the opening of new ones is ensured. Renovating medical equipment, raising the availability of specialist reviews, faster diagnosis of diseases and reducing the waiting list will contribute to raising the quality and availability of health services. The Single Policy Programme for people with disabilities has increased around 16%, which will certainly result in improving the health care of people with disabilities and training healthcare professionals to solve problems related to working with people with disabilities. The Committee members expressed satisfaction with the fact that significant increases in mobility insurance, accessibility to disabled persons, and in particular that these measures provide for the removal of architectural barriers in order to ensure the availability of healthcare. The board member expressed concern that the funds foreseen for the work of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute will continue to solve the hospital's financial problems and their long-term debt to suppliers. After a brief discussion, the board members voted with one vote against to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76018	Thank you. Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, President-in-Office Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76019	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 54th session held on 21 November 2006 discussed the proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with a draft budget projection for 2008 and 2009. The Committee considered the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with a draft budget projection for 2008 and 2009 as an interested working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening presentation was given by a proposing representative who stressed that the character of the 2007 budget is the full operationality of the state treasury. He also stressed that the increase in the 2007 budget of 8.8 billion kuna compared to 2006 was the result of fiscal discipline by improving the treasury system, covering the social security fund in the state budget as well as more effective revenue collection. In particular, the Proposer referred to the area of competence of the Committee and pointed out that, compared to the 2006 budget, the Department of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development in the section relating to the Committee's competence, a planned increase of 210 million kuna and, in particular, 54 million planned for the Agency for Inland Waterways, and a circulation of 5 million for the Postal Services Council. It has also been pointed out that Croatia Airlines will be subsidized for domestic flights of 70 million kuna for the first time. The debate expressed views that the implementation of the programme needs to be approached more quickly, especially in the development of internal navigation, so as not to be preceded by neighbouring countries. Modernisation of Croatian railways and modernisation and development of ports is of state interest and all in order to better connect faster transport of goods and passengers and increase traffic. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority vote 7 for, 1 against and 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with a projection of the budget for 2008 and 2009 in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76020	Thank you. The Committee for Immigration is a respected representative of President Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76021	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! At the 26th session of 21st November of this year, the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with a proposal for a budget projection for 2008 and 2009 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee considered the items of the budget from the section of the Committee on Immigration, which relate mainly to the funds set for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, immigrants to the Republic of Croatia, Croatian national minorities in neighbouring countries and Croatian citizens working and living abroad. The proposer presented a proposal for this year's state budget as a whole. He noted that he shows that macro-economic stability is ensured, GDP growth is 4.5% this year and that the 2009 GDP increase is projected to be 5%. The fiscal adjustment did not go to a disadvantage, but rather to an increase in rights and, as evidence, it cited active measures of population policy, whose positive results are already visible. He stressed a significant decrease in foreign debt. The Committee expressed its satisfaction that the Government of the Republic of Croatia continues to care for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the means of health, science, cultural institutions, publishing activities, information on radio and television, scholarship of students and others. It is proposed in the entry at the Ministry of Culture 13 million and 200 thousand kuna for the International Programme of Croatian Radio "The Voice of Croatia". Whether the broadcast of the 1st Croatian Radio Programme is included in this item on a short wave, which is very important. They have indicated that assistance to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is greater than shown in the draft budget and that the hospital in Mostar has received an additional 3 million kuna, Croatians in the Czech Republic have received their home and Croatian national minorities are helped to finance the publication of magazines and their arrivals in the Republic of Croatia are supported and projects are financed through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are being sent to them. The assistance to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is contained in the items in which the aid is visible and listed. The members of the committee consider insufficient funds for Croatia to be a queen of immigrants and decided to ask the Minister of Culture to increase funds for Croatian queens' projects, given the accepted projects "Croatian emigrant lexicon" and "Croatian literature anthology abroad".". The board president informed board members of the very difficult conditions in which Croats live, exiles in Capljina. We will require the ministry's resolution to be resolved this year, or the following year, by the housing of 126 families living in a pro-Nazi settlement. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with a projection of the budget for 2008 and 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76022	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76023	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The Croatian party club will not and cannot support this proposal of the state budget because it is primarily the pre-election budget and again in the end about the pre-election budget which is essentially further introducing Croatia into a new debt-slave relationship. Namely, if we just take '93. to this day, the order of the state budget, which is '93. It was about 29 billion kuna, '98. Somewhere around 45 billion kuna, we have now reached 108 billion kuna, so this is the highest budget that has so far been proposed in the Croatian Parliament and which is proposed to bring this Croatian Parliament. In fact, it is obvious that all this time is happening what is very bad for Croatia, very bad for Croatia's future, because all these budgets are primarily based on what they are, based on the task of both internally and on the external debt and the sale of the family treasure. We sold HT, now INA's on sale. We still have a chance to sell HEP and this system. And what about after that? What after that? How will we be able to patch and cover the state from one side? We won't have anything else to sell. And we won't even be able to borrow it because it won't give us credit. Every day we representatives in the Croatian Parliament find out whether the government has made an additional debt, a billion and a half kuna, or that bonds, securities are issued, whether it is public enterprises but these are all new responsibilities of Croatia, the future of Croatia. And what is it really, what is it now, what are the economical other trends at this point in Croatia will best tell you the data for the first 9 months of this year, meaning official ones that talk about the ratio of imports, exports. We have a deficit in imports-exports, i.e. we only cover imports with 48%. 48% that's official data on this last one. I don't know if they're haired, but that's how I read them. E, but $5.9 billion is our deficit. 5.9 billion kuna, but the euro, 5.9 billion euros is ours, and we're talking about tourism. For tourism, we only imported 655m euros in food and other products for tourism purposes in the 6th month alone. Says the minister of economic growth, the growth of gross domestic product. Let us be realistic and aware, our economic growth is not based on new values, new values. Our economic growth, i.e. the growth of gross domestic product, is primarily based on consumption, on new borrowing. On consumption on a new borrowing. At this point, according to the latest data from economic analysts, Croatia is looking at the total amount when all debts are taken is due to over $50 billion. We count both the debt and the state itself, citizens, but citizens are part of the state we know what the state is doing. Apart from the territory, they are government and citizens. So if you take both interest and everything else, and the trend is that somewhere in 2012, in 2013, the total debt with this policy could be $146 billion. 146 billion dollars. So we entered completely without, we today do not have an economic strategy for the development of Croatia. And every day we lose more and more opportunities to have an economic strategy for Croatia's development. Why? We sold HT, we sell INA, we sell HEP. We don't have our own banks anymore and on what grounds we'll be doing economic development. What strategy can we do when we do not have a single factor, a solid that will represent a stopper and the possibility of creating a new value that will be in the function of Croatia's development. The very fact that in the last few years we have been open according to the data that we at the Croatian party club have come to somewhere around 14,000 new jobs tells you enough about the economic situation. How many, our innovators, inventors get recognitions in both home and world competitions? Is one of these innovations in the economy resuscitated? Why? Because our economy is falling apart. Our economy is collapsing. We do not have domestic banks that, as such, have no economic development strategy that will make possible what Croatia has, take advantage of the potential because this way only buys time, and the charge will come in two, three years. We'll only have governments to pay the interest. No, we're gonna get into a situation where we can't do anything systematic in this area anymore. The fact itself, let's say, we see now around the shares of INA it doesn't run, the Croatian bank let the Post Office Bank run, party bank. And she means she's using what we're supposed to have at home. We were also proposed in 2003, 2004 even I think the minister and said that if you want to have an effective real economic development, so if you want to give the possibility of developing how to entrepreneurship of the small and medium, we have to have our own bank that's going to be clogged. Which part will serve. Unfortunately, we see for ourselves that nothing has been done. We know how the banks are in our foreign hands. We know for ourselves that even money from the Peace Fund was spent in a bank recovery, somewhere over 22 billion, according to what analysts say. We know for a fact that with the sale of banks to foreigners, all the deposits that these banks had, that amounted to over $100 billion. It was taken out of Croatia. We know what our situation is. It's said to be a national income per capita. Let's say we take a question from Zagreb. It's spoken somewhere between $15,000 and $17,000, but it doesn't stay in Zagreb. It's all coming out of Zagreb. It is out of Croatia. It does not remain there to give the opportunity to open new development, to open Croatian development, to open Croatia's future. So if we don't have an economic development strategy. If it is not based on real postulates, there is no possibility that one day a general budget will be drawn up and it will be in a situation that a new government will have to be required in 3.4 years if it is not done, it will have to cut the rights. We'll have to, we'll bring the whole country into collapse. So let us not build a future or deny the future of our children. Let us not deny new generations the future because, because we are bringing this budget on the basis of new duties, based on the new sale of Croatia, and there is almost nothing to sell out. So this is a fundamental point of view and that is why the Croatian Party Club cannot support this Budget, and in an individual debate we will also talk more widely about the issue of armed forces and the issue of police and other parts that are important for the functioning of the entire system in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76024	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76025	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect to say that the growth of the budget is conditioned only by borrowing because only by the superficial view of this budget, I do not have time to correct everything else, so it is seen that of itself, of the 68% rises in profit tax. I'm not gonna say it's just the new budget law. This is also because of the increased profits achieved by those who have stimulated economic growth. So in its 2003 mandate, this government has increased the budget by nearly 30 billion, 29 billion, and this results and shows that in all those areas where we wanted to stimulate growth and development, and that this economic activity is seen through the collection of increased taxes. And that costs rise by 8% less. This means that these scissors are reduced in favour of both reduced budget imbalance and reduced borrowing. For the first time, the government has therefore embarked on a single discipline in taxpayers, hitting the grey economy, on an increased collection of tax revenues. And that's clear to every surface economist. I ask that Mr Kovacevic therefore have that in mind when he discusses the budget in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76026	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76027	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Kovacevic said in his statement: "The government introduces the Republic of Croatia in a debt slave relationship with this 103 billion kuna budget. It's a very, very difficult, difficult qualification and, of course, it's not, it's not true. Mr. MP, if he had read the budget in detail, would have seen that the budget, including social contributions of 36 billion kuna. Furthermore, the government is proposing a reduction in the state budget. The government also proposes a series of measures for economic and other development. So exactly what is contrary to what is said in Mr. Pera Kovacevic's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76028	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76029	Thank you very much. Mr Kovacevic says, which is incorrect: "The HSP club will not and cannot support this National Budget Proposal because it leads us to a new debt slavery." These are in one sentence, here are only in one sentence two incorrect allegations. One, that's what my colleague Shirac said now. You can't talk about some kind of debt slavery. And secondly, it's not true that you won't support the budget. It is true that you will not support the budget because your president said yesterday: "If he remains in custody HSP will not support the budget."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76030	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76031	Dear Mr. President, so MP Kovacevic really said that Croatia is coming to a slave position with this which is simply not correct. Good reading of this Budget shows, in fact, the budget shows that Croatia, that the Croatian economy is developing. It shows good, good macroeconomic indicators, stability of the economy, currency stability, good credit rating of Croatia, consolidated finances. So all the opposite of what Mr. Kovacevic claimed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76032	And the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76033	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, Kovacevic, claiming that everything here is earned to get out, which is absolutely not true. A colleague forgot the long tails at the border when the Croats were out of everything they had, and they imported all the bofl they could buy there. According to that mass of money stays here today. But I don't think a colleague needed so many dark, black predictions to justify actually his vote for something that had been announced in the vengeful style before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76034	The HSS Club is a respected representative of Zeljko Pecek. What? ... What was it, colleague Kovacevic? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76035	Well, of course it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure because he's saying something I didn't say at all. And please tell me he's not insulting his colleague. If you put Glavas in a dungeon, don't insult us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76036	Don't... Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. The HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If former Minister Shkegro remains known for introducing the VAT, the current Minister Shuker will remain known for making the first budget of more than 100 billion kuna and for passing around or over EUR 50 billion in a four-year period or mandate. What happened from Skegra to Shuker besides the fact that the budget is growing significantly more than the growth of gross social product, and how is it always claimed to be social and developmental? How these 50 billion euros have actually been spent and what objectives we have achieved through such a budgetary policy, which we have not achieved. What is absolutely certain is that it has not changed that the fundamental concept on which the 93rd Stabilisation Programme rests and we explain it forever that the main objective is to maintain macroeconomic stability and sustainable economic growth, even though I do not know what this sustainable economic growth means to me. During any debate on the budget so far in this government's mandate, the HSS requires that we change such a macroeconomic policy and support different development objectives that will be in the role of production, employment and exports growth. We are talking about the need to achieve higher growth rates of 3.4%, especially if we are watching and increasingly worrying about the growth of external debt which has grown at a rate of 3 to 4 times that of GDP in the past few years. The fact that the growth of external debt has slowed down and that this reduces the role of the state does not leave us optimistic because we are aware of the fact that even the smallest global disturbance in the world can lead to a serious debt crisis. Credit expansion allowed domestic demand and consumption to grow, which was too much to buy goods produced abroad. It becomes even questionable whether we will be able because of our disproportion to the growth of gross social product and ino obligations to service interest, let alone the main debt. It's worrying that we've been put into a situation where we have to spend the substance. We are aware of the fact that the state has reduced its participation in external debt over the past year, but it is still alarmingly high and because of its service we limit development. We also set ourselves a further limit in development in the targeted deficit of the state budget of 2.8%. Have we done so in order to please someone outside or ourselves or have been able to act as some other countries who have been in a similar situation and have courageously opted for a higher deficit that is defined by the criteria of masturbation. Our budget certainly can also suffer a greater deficit, but in this case it must not be pre-election like this one but must support reforms and development and not focus on consumption. The investment of a larger deficit in development can bring good results in the short term, but for these ambitions we need to raise the bar and something more and we need to seek the growth rate of GDP somewhere between 6-8% of what HSS has been here for four years in a row repeating. If that is what we want and if we know that such a procedure is necessary or that it is easier to fit into some molds and defend ourselves by the fact, these are the rules of conduct that apply to Europe. Is there a scenario, a simulation for greater development with a greater budget deficit than the one which Europe is most desirable to declare at least during this period when we are not familiar with the date of entry into the European Union. In Europe and in our immediate surroundings, we can find such exceptions and successful exceptions. Do we know about them, whether we are willing to study them and apply other people's good experiences especially now that we could also take some independent moves because we are relieved of the reins of the International Monetary Fund. Whether economic growth can be based on ambition and effects arising from domestic consumption, rather than exports of production and employment. We still have too much import and too much deficit in the balance of payments. Next year, GDP growth will be based on domestic consumption and how the public sector is mainly through infrastructure and population, but not quality investments. Ino investments in Croatia mainly took place in an activity of which is taking place on the domestic market, until recently in the banking sector, and recently in trade. These investments are certainly not aimed at strengthening Croatia's export potential. We are aware that the obstacle to export growth cannot be resolved overnight to be recognized and resolved through budgetary policy, and that is exactly what we stand for. Croatia is not the only country found in the scales of the balance sheet deficit and too high foreign but also internal debt. However, Croatia is a country that has no ambition to start solving accumulated problems through this budget. The objectives of this budget are, as we heard, regional development, here first of all I want to comment on changes in profit tax where we give local self-government an estimated 800 million kuna, but if we subtract 500 million kunas left behind by Zagreb, it means regional development of around 300 million kunas of new money. The second goal is to create a knowledge society. Obviously, we will create a knowledge society without teachers and teachers who are on strike tomorrow, and we will create a knowledge society that we have on one professor 300 students instead of 30 students as required by Bologna. We'll also conduct a population policy in a way that gives births a fee of 63 kuna and we raise the allowance by 34 kuna. For infrastructure projects, however, we will invest 1.7 billion kuna more, but this development will be uneven because some areas in Croatia are completely neglected. As for the guarantee card that we actually received in terms of this government's programme, the first thing was tax cuts. Variation of tax cuts through smaller VAT and through implementation of tax reform. We are witnessing that this is here in the four-year term, and it will not happen because this budget does not foresee it. The element of economic growth in the guarantee card has already been commented because we have not achieved a growth of more than 5% in a year. Employment, the third element in the guarantee card is almost as high as two years ago. Standard, of course, we think of the standard of citizens enough to tell us if these citizens are in debt to banks for 10 billion euros so that they can live normally in Croatia. And the final element of the guarantee card is entering the European Union. We today, and probably tomorrow won't know not only what date it is, but what year it is, so that's a guarantee card comment. It is interesting when we talk about social sensitivity to observe what these social benefits actually mean because it brings social assistance to those who need it the most in Croatia are too low. The absolute poverty line is somewhere around $4 per person per day, and our social assistance to those most needed is about $2.2 or double that. As a result, 18% of all citizens in Croatia live almost in total poverty. Politicians have no responsibility for the days of promises through budget projections especially in the election year, while voters cannot know whether these positions are objective and whether they are the best solutions because, of course, most people do not know public finances at all. Either the government has no real knowledge of the most pressing problems or has no desire to solve them especially in the way she promised voters. We cannot boast of the large budget as evidence of a successful policy. It can be praised by achieving greater economic growth than the growth of the budget, and according to all of this is not the subject of this budget as well as expectations in the near future based on the conduct of such an economic policy, as has not been the subject of all these budgets in the term of office of this Government. The HSS has been talking a lot lately about protecting national interests. I'd like to mention the experience of transition countries this time. Interestingly, those countries that sold less of their assets were more successful, they also achieved greater economic growth. It is before us, as we see from the budget of INA sales, sales of HT, Elektroprivreda, we sold Pliva, but at the same time the pensioners settled themselves and paid back their debt. There are no new pensioners in this budget, and we will eventually set up some new fund from which they may at some point receive pensions, but I suppose we will be filling that fund with an existing pension fund portfolio, or pensioner rights. Something about spending a budget that's supposed to be transparent I'll try to elaborate with two examples. Example one. 60 days ago, I asked the Minister of Agriculture who will spend two and a half billion kuna in this budget, which means one of the biggest users in this budget. The question is which 100 users in Croatia receive the biggest incentives? Simple question. To draw the top 100 in 2005 and 2006. After two months, the minister tells me he can't give an answer because the system doesn't allow it. Mr. Minister, what kind of system is this with your colleague, and how does the Treasury actually work if we can't get an answer to the simple question of which 100 of the biggest users are the incentives in agriculture in Croatia? An example of another. In the past and this year, the Virovitic County received 2 times 3 million kuna from the budget for the construction of a new hospital that needed to finance project documentation. The money was spent last year and this year on purpose. In the term of office of this government, that hospital was supposed to be finished, and here we obviously don't have a project, and we're not going to have one. My question is whether money should be given to those who do not know how to spend it, that is, when they spend it, they spend it on purpose. I'm sure you shouldn't do that. And who's he supposed to give it to? Those who know how to use it for the necessary steps in the growth function of over 5% with an increase in employment, with an increase in production, with an increase in exports. This budget is unfortunately not in that function. It's sad that it's not even in the function of paying back new pensioners because they've been waiting for it for six years. He's not even socially sensitive enough. That's why we at the HSS Club will vote against this kind of budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76038	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, a respected representative of Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76039	Yes, I would correct, Mr. President, my colleague Pacek when he said that the fundamental concept of this budget was the same as it was before. I say it's an incorrect piece of information because it's the sky and the earth from before. So, there were some things that happened that didn't know who was drinking who was paying. A whole new system of the State Single Treasury has been introduced, the budget coverage has been expanded so that even the user's own revenues go into the budget, all income by regulations specific. So, since 2007, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has been involved, for health insurance, the Employment Office. So, it stopped with the practice of being held in banks for money while the state was in debt at the same time. You can clearly and loudly see the cost bearer, you can see the cost spot and you can see the cost time. I mean, that's something else than it was before. Not to mention the fair distribution of tax revenues that will affect the equal development of the region and that, nevertheless, the largest separations in education and the ministry involved. Therefore, this will all result in a different and different way of budgeting, as well as actions, or results in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76040	Second correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76041	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there were really a lot of incorrect allegations from fellow Pecek. I'll try to fix at least a few of them. Speaking of infrastructure projects, he said some areas of Croatia were neglected. That's not true. There are priorities but certainly no area of the Republic of Croatia has been neglected. Furthermore, speaking of the deficit, he said this is about the pre-election budget, however, if we really wanted to make the pre-election budget as you did, then the deficit would be 6.3% and then the funding that you're giving us today would be, but what we're not doing because this deficit is going to be at 3% according to European criteria. Next, you said this was supposed to be transparent. It is not reportedly transparent, it is transparent because all expenditures and Croatian roads, and highways, and water, are all here and everyone is visible and it is known where money is spent unlike your time when money is not known to be spent and which is why the deficit has increased to 6.3%.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76042	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Matusic and I are correcting the impressions. They correct the impressions, not what I said, and at the same time they spend three times as much time as what the Rules of Procedure allows them to do. So please warn them. If they want to report for a debate, they'll get a replica and we'll be able to replicate. And this is how cowardly correcting a quote that wasn't what I thought was bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76044	It's about the alleged, you've made one claim, the representative challenged that claim with his argument and his reasons as you dispute when you're in another situation in the same way you contest it and it's... Comrade Cain, what do you want to know? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What do you want to know? And the esteemed representative Marko Širac, the next correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76045	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected representative and colleague, Pecek, cited a number of incorrect allegations. I will try to correct only one, which reads: "This budget is pre-election, does not encourage development". Of course it's an incorrect allegation that can be refuted by a series of claims. In the first place of this budget, considerable resources have been provided to encourage economic development to promote infrastructure building, to encourage science and to develop a number of other activities that can be financed from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76046	Next correction, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76047	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Pacek said, quote, "We're obviously going to create a knowledge society without a professor." We won't, colleague Pacek. And this budget provides funds for new employment, and I want to remind all of us that in two years it is employed in the education system 4 thousand 256 new jobs and it is very important that more than a thousand new scientific recruits, which means that we think about a knowledge society and that we think we should invest in education.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76048	Comrade Pacek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76049	I apologize, Mr. President, but at no point did I talk about employment, I said that teachers would be on strike in the year when we invest most in knowledge. You're letting your colleague fix what I really didn't say, as well as Mr. Shirtz. So we're in the pre-election year... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76050	Comrade Pacek, I hear it's excellent, you said education knowledge without a professor. That's what you said. That's not what you said. That's what makes it right. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So let's not go to the challenge of something when we've all heard it in our own ears. And the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76051	So here I have to say in the introduction that it's really a short time to correct all these incorrect allegations, and the replica doesn't go here we know that by the Rules of Procedure. Namely, here's a colleague claims, colleague Pacek claims that the slightest global disturbance can lead us to a debt crisis. That's not true. Oil, oil-gathering was a major global disturbance, we survived. Then it also says that beyond the debt of the general state it will also destroy us which is not true if we look at that savings is actually recordable, so the mildly said debt is covered by savings. It further discusses the working conditions of higher education inspective, etc. It should be said that high school has an index of 139% compared to 2003 when the gentleman was a minister. And finally he collapsed at the end incorrectly to the Ministry of Agriculture that he was unable to give the data in two months. Gentlemen, in four years, you haven't given any information about the 200 richest families, and you boasted that you had them all in your pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76052	And the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang, the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76053	The Honored colleague, Pacek, either disobeyed Minister Shuker or read the 2003 budget. So many incorrect allegations, I'll do as much time as my colleague, Pecek, but I quote, he quotes, "Employment is like three years ago." That's not true. Unemployment drops at 1% per year, and according to the European Union, in their estimates, if we continue at this rate, we will reach 10% and we will join the transition countries that are at this stage of development in which Croatia is. Then citizens' loans grow 10 billion a year. Credits totalling 78 billion kuna and saving citizens 81 billion kuna, therefore it is not a worrying sum. Then he said the state budget was unclearly written. I quote, "The voters don't know the financials." That is why the Ministry of Finance for the first time published a very simple book and can be found on the website. I kept my mouth shut while you were talking. And it can also be found on the website of the Ministry of Finance where it is very simply graphic and figures displayed the quality of this Budget. Because of the red light, there's only one more. He says you sold HT and "Ply," and you didn't pay back the debt. You sold HT in majority ownership, and without the knowledge of the public, you illegally and counter-constitutionally alienated the state from its strategic number of shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76054	Justice Committee President Emil Tomljanovic postpones a meeting of the Justice Committee scheduled for 22 November at 13:30 on 24 November, Friday at 9 p.m. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76055	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, This is the final budget of this government in this term of office. Those who have been against the IDS so far will remain, and the HDZ conflict partners logically will support the government, but I am not here with Kovacevic, only to notice that the HSP's hands are not necessary. And why aren't they necessary? Because there, in 2001 or 2002, we amended the Budget Law or our Rules of Procedure and, for the vote of the budget, it's enough to have a simple majority of 39 hands and that's a shame, but I know that's not going to change anymore. Any controversy in the budget that can be de facto adopted by the desk is unnecessary. But we're still in line. In 2006, the budget without the extra budget funds of the Croatian Road, highways, water employment amounted to 98.8 billion kuna. In 2007, it's going to be £ 108 billion. Obviously, nothing wants to be left to the case. The elections are in a year, 72% of the budget goes for salaries for the social pension, the development de facto driven by the budget is not surprising then that Croatian economic growth is among the lowest in Central and Eastern Europe. Lower growth is only Hungary, and yet it is no wonder that every other day protesters gather in front of the Hungarian Parliament. In front of us because of the ban on gatherings, that can't even theoretically happen. Growth in Gross Social Product 2007 Bulgaria 5.6%, Hungary 2.4%, Romania 5.1%, Serbia 5.5%, Slovakia 7.5%, Croatia only 4.4%. I will also give an emphasis on the social meaning, personally I believe that the separation for the new pensioners should have been ensured, and for the poor, the wages in health care, the schooling, the administration could have been higher. Someone will say wherever bigger when 72% of the budget money goes to pay, to pension, or to the social. You can, you just have to start working in this country, and people should be allowed to work, not that the only logic is that the less you do, the better it is, that everything in Croatia is worth not doing. Gentlemen, the budget is clearly good, there are bad sides. It's good for me to cut this budget deficit to 2.8%. The state in that deficit is participating with 1.7% of extra-account funds, again the state 0.8%, the local self-government with 0.3%. That means 7.3 billion kuna as in 2006, but in the 10 billion kuna circus of the larger budget, it's not this year 3.5, but it's going to be or the next 2.8%. However, here I want to underline one piece of information. In Croatia on 31.6.2006, we had 37,000 blocked crafts and their obligations exceeded 4 billion and 300 million kuna. They are 30,000 crafts and now probably 35,000 turns in the blockade are longer than 360 days and almost to argue that a small craftsman is in a worse position and from workers who work and with them, for example. in a shipbuilding which is a strategic branch but which in 2006, burdens the gross social product with 3 and perhaps 4% higher than those recoverys, someone will always help until these small people think to help. So the shipbuilding two months ago or the budget of the shipbuilding two months ago has provided 4.2 billion kuna, the Brodosplit a billion, the 3rd of May from Rijeka a billion 700, the "Kraljevici" 220, the "Brodotrogiru" 640 million kuna. It's clearly an "Oiler" 0 kuna. This year, there are 428 million kunas or 43.7 million kunas less than in 2006, not counting the 4 billion, 200 million kunas mentioned. But I wouldn't even mention it if today in "The New Voice List" or "The Voice of Istria" I didn't read the titles "The pulse and the Rijeka Squire, "The Move of the River Engine Factory", "The Queen Before the Shutdown or Construction of Military Ships". It's amazing who these nebuloses just come to mind. On the other hand, I'll say this. I've had enough of the fossils. We'll get rid of pensions, health care, education, social services without telling who we're going to take and who, how much is in that budget. I mentioned here the pulsed "Oliary" which he won means to resuscitate 0 kuna and now I'm going to say that the new pensioners will be treated with health care, disabled people, etc., first of all by those who work. More specifically, areas that are the most allocated to the budget, and thus the quasi policy of even development that is now being introduced or being led for 15 years can only be killed by a milk cow. Right, not all places in Croatia are in the same position. Istra can do this in 2007, and we could say in 2006 that today we have fewer unemployed than pre-war '90s. or '89, that we have more jobs than pre-war '89, that we have an economic exchange 3 times bigger than pre-war '89, or '90, and as it looks like I'm going to compare import-export to County coastal-goranian. The County of Istria has exports in 2005. 952 million dollars, Primorje-goranska only 403. Imports of a billion 082 in Istria, imports into the Primorje-Gorski 789. Or the exchange of goods in Istria is about 2 billion 034 million kuna, the Primorje-Gorskiska is almost 50% lower, and so is exports per capita in Istria 5 thousand, to the Primorje-Gorskiska 2 thousand dollars. So if you want to solve the pensioners or health care then say we'll solve it, but the share of this region or that region in that is so much and so much. And then I read which projects will be monitored by the Government in the Istrian County. There must be some money reserved outside the budget funds. Some particle, perhaps some sewerage but the County of Istria gets: the construction of the Barban elementary school 120 thousand kunas, the Vrsar sports hall 100 thousand kunas, the pula secondary Italian school 6 million kunas, that's good because Prodi's Government decided to deprive the Italian Union of 6 million euros, the Rovinj hall is funded with 15 million kunas, it's probably a substitute for the new Law on the financing of local self-government, which Rovinj loses exactly 29 million 931 thousand 632 kuna and 78 limes. Most convincingly in Croatia. True, Zagreb loses 530 million kuna but that is 7% of their budget and Rovinj loses 24% of its budget. Otherwise 35 units of local self-government in Istria get, 6 loses cca. Some 45 million kuna, most clearly Rovinj 29.9 million kuna, County Istrian loses 7 and a half million kuna, Umag 2 and a half million kuna, etc. Other counties all win but for County Istrian and budget of 210 million kuna loss of 7 and a half million kuna is a lot. And for Rovinj 30 million kuna it's almost bankruptcy. On the other hand, the mayors of Pula, Poreč, Labin, Buzet, Pazina I suppose Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Osijek, etc. are absolutely for this law. However, how would I say metropolisation be solved? First of all, by demetropolisation, by moving a ministry outside Zagreb and a fair redistribution between the state and local self-government where VAT should also be addressed. Pula General Hospital gets 13 million kunas, home to Motovun million and 300. River i.e. The coastal-goran County has passed similarly but there will be a little more road operations, for KBC Rijeka goes 30 million kunas, the Hospital for orthopedics "Lovran" 9 million 800, a hall in Bakar where HDZ has won 5 million kuna elections. So another feature of the budget is reflected in the logic of "equal chances" but only for those environments where mine are in power. Monitoring the project in Herzegovina is traditionally good, which is not surprising. I also mentioned the case of the Italian Union, it is surprising that the mayor of Zagreb on the 15th anniversary of the formation of Herceg Bosnia was at a gathering in Gruds. Third, what's most important. '94. The budget amounted to 22.5 billion kunas plus 30% outside of the budget funds. '95. 29 billion plus 30%, '96. 30.5 billion plus 30%, '98. 42 billion, '99. 49 billion, 2000. 51 billion, 2000. 58 billion kuna, that's where pensions come in, 2002. 73 billion, that's where they go along with health care costs, 2003. 80 billion kuna, 2004. 86, 2005. 90.8 billion, 2006. 98 billion, 2007. 108 billion kuna plus 8 to 9% outside of budget funds, roads, water etc. The HDZ has increased from €86.2 billion to € 108 billion or €22 billion. Or the state budget's since '94. By 2007, it increased from 22.5 billion kuna to € 108 billion, meaning €86.5 billion, while on the other hand, the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia is from €92 billion from the one '94. It grew to 250 billion kuna in 2006 or by 138 billion kuna. So the budget grew to 13 years by 4.65 times and the gross social product by only 2.7 times. Smart enough and it says that Croatia has or will have a problem. We spend every other kuna, no one is satisfied, but the solution is simple, to allow people to work. I said, 72% go to health care, pay, social services. 20.4 billion kuna, 9.4% higher for social and health care combined, 25.4 billion kuna 7% higher for wages, 30.2 billion kuna 6% higher for pensions. But if the budget grows in 2007 by 8.8% or twice as much as gross social product, then it's 8.8 billion kuna more than 2006. It was primarily not only to buy social peace but to get rid of these new pensioners 400 thousand times 500 kuna per month equal to 200 million a month, annually about 2.5 million. And clearly, health care. Their budget is growing by only 5.2% means hospitals, and yet I have the impression that it will stand at a general hospital that would be time for the state to take over them completely, so let them guide them because it is not logical for them to be cared for by counties whose budgets are less than the annual incomes of general hospitals. The whole system of these general hospitals is about to collapse and we're playing with what needs to be better advised and that's people's health. Interestingly, defensive disability pensions have increased by 10,000 users in three years. I guess we're here somewhere on a number of 40,000 and there's still a positive or negative 32,000 requests for the status of the disabled. I repeat, condicio son qua non are clear pensions of new pensioners, health care, wages, disability. Clearly, many will list as do a number of other social categories that do not treat this budget. Out of a million and 400 thousand employees 20 thousand receive a salary below the lowest of less than a thousand 715 kuna net, the lowest receive 21 thousand 776 employees and slightly higher than the lowest or lower average receive more than half the employees or 701 thousand 257 people primarily due to absurd givings. In pensioners, as many as 97.02% have a pension below average wage, 60% about 1,000 kuna and others here are not to be mentioned, but it is time to send people messages that the longer it takes to work, the bigger the pension. Europe, we know that, we don't always have to manage it, we give up social rights at the expense of economic growth. I'm against that logic, but this form of giving is approaching what our growth will no longer be able to finance. And therefore, when I say that everything is worth doing in this country, not only is it worth doing, and that the best people who do the least are able to understand that you want it, but I don't think it's far from the truth, because if it wasn't, Croatia would not have achieved the growth of a '90 gross social product just this year or last year. Clearly, the war was the biggest culprit, the attack on ex Yugoslavia when we lost one year in '99. also etc. I welcome free textbooks, family-based measures with children, raises the lowest fees, but we will all agree that the budget is electoral, that the government here is not experimenting with this budget, buying social peace and with 8.8 billion kuna, this is clearly possible. And if new pensioners are disposed of from existing assets it is also possible that social peace in the next year will be certain, so the rebalance will probably solve the status of school staff who announced these days of their strikes. Finally, perhaps just one more thesis by Mr Lovrinčević that on 10 kunas invested in Croatia 3 kunas were lost due to corruption and poor administration. This corruption may not but bad administration certainly be that because of the complexity of the law, the constant amendments to the law, the release of documents that last indefinitely. And just here, if we did something, I think we'd run in the right sense of this country's word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76056	Thank you. Are you voting for the budget or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76057	If you haven't heard, Mr. President IDS is against the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76058	It's not possible. Impossible, but true. We have five rectifications of incorrect allegations. First respected representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76059	Thank you very much. It's obviously about reading another budget again. According to Mr. Cain, there is no development encouraged in this budget. I don't have time, I'll just point out that exports, export incentives increased by 136%, entrepreneurship infrastructure 3.5%. Let's add to this the Regional Development Fund, agricultural incentives in three years are higher by 650 million kuna, etc. Secondly, he says in front of our parliament there are no columns in front of Hungary due to the Law on the ban on gathering. No, Mr. Cain, if you had continued your deficit budget today you'd be where Hungary minus 10.2% is. You don't need to explain what that means or why it's the lines. It also says that the state budget, or our budget, is much weaker and that our national income is much weaker than the transition countries, and compares countries that did not have eight years of Serbian aggression, countries that did not give 5-7 a year like us last year with billions of kuna for reconstruction. That's the difference you're talking about being lost somewhere, but you don't know there was a war, you could at least watch TV. Furthermore, he says a small craftsman and entrepreneur have passed the scariest. Last year, a small businessman did his first positive business. 300% was the higher profit of small entrepreneurs last year, and the number of employees rose from 105 to 138 thousand in small enterprises, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76060	Thank you. Second correction by the esteemed representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76061	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a series of incorrect allegations that Mr. Cain brought here from the possible merger of the shipyards of the Kraljevica, Uljanika, etc. which has nothing to do with this budget at all, I'm just gonna concentrate on one particular case. Mr. Caine, you said there was a sports hall in Bakr, or 5 million kuna is invested in it because HDZ is in power there. That's just not true. The sports hall should have been built long ago and the question is why the former government in Bakr did not allow the hall to be built or why they were unable to collect all necessary documentation. That's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76062	Third correction, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76063	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in this renaissance of pessimism in Croats, we heard besides the others that the little craftsman is in a difficult situation than the worker who works with him. Well, normally in the absence of property cards it can be like that but it's also true that we actually have countless companies of wealthy owners and poor firms.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76064	Next is Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76065	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain said incorrectly that this budget does not encourage economic development. Well, it's an incorrect colleague. Is it really a question that you read the part about encouraging the economy? Well, there has never been more incentives for the Croatian economy than this budget for 2007. The second thing, you also said that the government is buying social peace through this budget in the pre-election year. That's not true. That's not true. The government implements the programme with this budget, which it plotted at the beginning. Therefore, he does not buy any social peace. We're simply returning all of it, we've brought back all those rights and we're increasing social rights because it's our program, not our pre-election year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76066	And the esteemed representative Ivan Vukic, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76067	So I'm correcting Mr. Cain's misquote when he said that this government is run by politics in providing funds to local self-government units. It's simply not true, so in mentioning the Bakar Sports Hall, he said it was because he won the HDZ. I think it was corrected by Mrs. Irene, and here I come from the county where thank God HDZ has been in power for all these 15 years, so we know that in, unfortunately, Istria it's not. Well, I'd trade with you for next year's budget with Karlovac and Istrian County. Well, that's just because we say how much of this government is being run by political will in allocating funds. So it is simply not true, but it is guided by a balanced development which is guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76068	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. National Minority Representatives' Club, respected Zdenka Chuhnil. After that, the PGS Club of SBH and NBS respected representative Nikola Ivanis and Željko Pavlic. We're moving on with the session. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76070	Your Honor, the government's representatives. The National Minority Club has studied the budget carefully for 2007 and we should be pleased that the budget has grown by 9 billion kuna, as well as in previous years. Unfortunately, the growth in the budget is not due to the growth of production, not even the result of the increase in taxes, the reduction of social rights or the tightening of belts, but above all the growing needs, thus increasing expenditures that are increasing faster than the nominal growth of the gross social product. The budget is being filled and launched by Croatia unfortunately on the wings of state and personal consumption, the flowering of imports and the inflow of foreign capital. Since state spending has been growing taxes could not be reduced but we positively assess the reviving of the financial police, which certainly reduces grey economy control and helps fill the budget. 70% of the money will go to the salaries of state and public sector employees, social and pensions. Although almost all total budget allocations for different social incomes have increased by several percentages, the increase will only be felt by users from the National Population Policy, means children's extra charge, maternity benefits, newborn equipment and not to count them further. However, since an increase in users of these funds is expected, there is a question of an increase in individual incomes. Pension expenditures are planned with more than 30 billion and are said to be able to monitor needed growth. But what the National Minority Club finds a little inadmissible is that for the following year, we have found no means of equating new pensioners, or incomes. Because the differences of up to 600 kuna for average pensions of 1,000 and 800 kuna are certainly drastic and I think that we should have taken this seriously, because last year we also warned that this is the only category that is not discussed and that we do not want to degrade. The budget for education and science for the first time exceeded 10 billion kuna, i.e. 10.44 billion, with an increase of 9.3%, certainly with the highest growth in education standards, and we finally welcomed free textbooks for elementary school and first grade high school, which will become mandatory as of next year, which will result in a truly relatively large amount of 240 million, and I believe that this will be a joy to parents first and thus reduce the autumn impact on the family budget. But what those who implement education programmes and scientific programs think about this budget are just telling us today's strike, primarily in secondary schools, and the announced primary schools. And it is really hard to expect Croatia to flourish and base on knowledge without stimulated and satisfied implementation carriers. For the construction of schools, 80 million are allocated, which is enough again, and on the other hand far from the need, and with possible new tax redistribution and increased decentralised resources we are far from the real needs, because normally there is also construction of definitely sports halls that many of our primary schools still do not have on paper. Can I meet the needs of 20.5 billion kuna, which will be provided by the Ministry of Health and Social Care? Will capital investments, i.e. building and building new hospital facilities and new equipment to reduce waiting lists? It's a question that we ask equally in front of everything. For original health care, 500 million kuna funds are increasing, i.e. 16.1 billion should be spent. Will the plan stop the accumulation of health debts and will it make it easier for doctors and patients, more instructions, less waiting? And finally, whether those planned funds for new employment will finally begin to address the medical staff deficit where it is finally expressed. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy receives a representative 14.63% higher in 2007, i.e. it receives 3.31 billion kuna. Agricultural support of 2.33 billion is growing by 9%, and we can no longer say that they are insufficient. Today they reach a European level, and what we need to discuss here are precisely the effects of these incentives, their focus on the resources that Croatia lacks or which have a safe market in exports. And certainly here we should talk about the dynamics of paying off exactly these incentives. Incentive policy has not contributed to improving neither the quantity nor the quality of agricultural products. At the same time, our small producers are still divided. We do not have quality, professional links institutions, and here is even the use of funds from pre-accession funds specifically from the SAPARD because of such a structure of the agricultural economy has become questionable. We therefore welcome for the first time the budgetary incentives of producer organisations. Although we believe that a million and 500 thousand kunas are too little and it certainly won't increase their competitiveness. In contrast, 42.8 million kunas or a thousand 712 index are allocated simultaneously for the development of the competitiveness of the wood sector. Although forest resources are 95% in the hands of the Croatian forests, unlike 80% of the weaned agricultural economy that would deserve and need at least that much funding. The same applies to the formation of the Agrarian Chamber where the foresters managed to form an Agrarian Chamber which either had more work or would be agrarian with the state of agriculture certainly that we should assess and stimulate that finally and agrarian chamber is working. Although there are no co-financed programmes for the technological improvement of the food industry in 2006, the return of this position only speaks of the fact that we were right when we claimed that there was no development of agriculture without quality food and processing industry. Only finished product and a recognised brand can be a quality export product. Since we have the agricultural potential to feed 20 million inhabitants, it is certainly a resource that should still be accounted for more. Another budget position of the Ministry of Agriculture raises special attention, and this is a land editing programme that has increased from 500 thousand kuna from 2006 to 10.98 million or an index of 2 thousand 196. Finally, we realized that we have nothing to look for in the European Union with the possession of three hectares and that on such properties it is not possible to introduce profitable and competitive agricultural production based on both new technologies and the level of knowledge we are calling for. In order to achieve and protect the rights and freedoms of national minorities, 11.86% higher and 35 million kunas are planned to be allocated for next year. For the work of more than 260 associations of national minorities fostering cultural heritage 19 organised minorities will be allocated 10% of the funds or a total of 32.7% of the above. At around large funds for cultural creation and manifestations of national minorities, but since they cover both press and publishing, it is hardly enough for every minority to issue at least one month in their own language. The allocation of these funds shall be carried out by the Council for National Minorities, with prior consultations and talks with all applicants of programming requirements within each national minority, and shall also be subject to verification and verification of reports made by programmes and spent funds and a good example of democratic distribution but also a transparent review of the spending of taxpayers' funds. In addition to these cultural resources, we are not fully satisfied with the means that are intended to educate our young members both in pre-school and school institutions and with those of extra-school institutions that are specifically established for the Roma. Several capital facilities such as primary schools, school sports halls, social homes and rural infrastructure await the same help of the state budget, as units of local self-government do not recognise and unfortunately do not support minority needs. Since we are representatives from the National Minorities Club exclusively chosen by national minorities, the funds for cultural autonomy have been increased within the average growth limits to look at other costs, with several amendments, the National Minorities Club will support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76071	Thank you. In 15.12 timed out to report for a debate over 10 minutes on this agenda point. For the Club of PGS Representatives of the SBHS of the IMF, respected representatives Nikola Ivanis and Željko Pavlic. First respected representative, Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76072	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The position of the regional PGS regional parties SBS and the IMF on the 2007 Budget differs from what is said in the opening statement, in principle, about the budget, said Minister Shucker, and it differs primarily in that from the primary point of view which we are interested in, we do not hold that it is true that this budget creates conditions for the even development of all parts of Croatia, i.e. we do not consider it an accurate finding that this budget creates conditions for regional development and that the budget has a characteristic that it is regional. The budget is adopted in a year in which the government and the prime minister are seriously told that they are planning to make a significant step in reforming local self-government as well as in reforming the local self-government funding system. Also during the year, some other announcements were made, and expecting this budget we were primarily interested in whether this budget would be announced and realized. We were first of all interested in three points, the issue of financing local self-government, the second question we were interested in was the budgetary and government policy issue towards pensioners who retired after 1.1.2000 and health care and fourthly, the attitude towards shipbuilding. Analysing these four things in relation to the budget solution, we have found the following: In 2006 the grips of the law package, and then also through this budget are visible that for 2007, the government has not created a framework, a framework of the health financing system which will have a chronic health deficit that is constantly around 2.5 billion each year, to be resolved. We therefore hold that in that part of our expectations are definitely not fulfilled. When it comes to new pensioners after 1 January 2000 who today are neither guilty nor obliged to receive pensions by 7 to 25% compared to pensioners who had retired under the same conditions before 1.1.2000, a lot of them have been discussed recently, legal projects were mentioned, there was a certain match that would offer better solutions how to make them more efficient and in time compensated so that they would not accumulate with debt, or minus. However, this also remains open and there is no indication in this budget to be addressed, and of course the statements of the type of formation of the new fund given daily and walking cannot be taken into account and considered as something that someone is thinking about solving the problem. When it comes to local self-government, I will repeat the need for serious reform of the local and regional self-government system as part of this and of the funding system of local and regional self-government, and a lot has been announced in this area this year. From this light of day, he saw last week's bill of law which changes relations in the distribution of income tax and profit tax that redistribute those 800 million around the entire local self-government had a fight with Zagreb or Zagreb with the others. And in fact, a model has been offered where someone gets a little bit more, but insignificantly, where someone loses a little bit equally not at a very significant level, where most of them remain on the same, and the most underdeveloped one is going to cut the budgets, given the structure in which they fill the budgets with these measures, it's going to be about that way. We estimate that the situation in which the climate was created that the rest of the local and regional self-government should be taken by Zagreb in order to develop it is absolutely unacceptable. It's just not even methodologically good. It's a very simple thing. We persistently, as I most often speak in health care and I say we are not going to systematically resolve the system of health funding, so we will not speak openly about how the overall financial capacity of this country is distributed. And if we were to talk about it then we'd say we're the most centralist state today. It may have been Portugal recently but reforms in recent years have changed that. It was Slovenia that began to change it last year, it was also Slovakia, but now it is Croatia without competition. And that looks about the same way. State relations, local and regional self-government, in Europe range from a minimum of 23% to local and regional self-government, and 77% to the state, which has a number of countries. Over the largest number of countries where local self-government and regional government have 30% of the total fiscal capacity, and a country with 70, and there are a number of countries where 40% of the funds are those directly managed as source revenues by local and regional self-government. By preparing for both the debate and the budget, and preparing for the final and political programme of regional parties for the following year and for the parliamentary elections, we have consulted from the Faculty of Political Sciences, the Institute of Economics to the Institute of Public Finance, several serious experts have turned our attention these days that the trend in the relationship of these percentages in Croatia is getting worse and what can be read from the Institute of Public Finance is that local and regional, therefore, county self-government in Croatia today only has 7%. It's a seven-percent stretch. We talked about 10 last year, we talked about 12 before, and of the 7 3.5% goes to Zagreb and 3.5 is divided into 533 municipalities, the city and 20 counties. Well, in all these changes and additions that change the distribution of income tax and profit tax definitely can't be something worth spending more seriously on. Finally, 800 million per 600 entities if distributed in one way or another cannot bring the necessary changes. So we need multiple changes in favour of local and regional self-government. There is neither will nor will nor political critical mass. That's completely clear to me. It's crystal clear to us in regional parties, but we think we need to talk about it. Because with this ratio of 93% of the state, 7% of local and regional self-government, we at a time when we are trying to join the European Union on this subject have anti-European policy because it is anti-European policy. This is how European countries don't allocate money in their countries. And about that, I'd like to give another example. These days, the very much mentioned profit tax is shared in different ways in the countries of the European Union. Like what? there are countries that are very well arranged, organised and particularly famous for keeping their public finances very high. This is probably the Republic of Austria, and in these countries there are forms of rent that are financed by local and regional self-government in such a way that the total amount of profit tax is allocated in a certain percentage, divided by the number of inhabitants and then belongs to the head office, local and regional self-government. And then it's a fair distribution of one part of the profit tax. So I'm not saying it has to be like that, but we need to open up a debate on fundamental changes, and this is definitely the level of cosmetics, the level of what can be said in pre-election times as something that has made and has led to revolutionary changes. The fourth thing I said that makes us not looking well at this budget is shipbuilding status. Let me just say a few words about it and I'll be done with it. In public, there is definitely a perception that shipbuilding is only a consumer and that it spends taxpayers' tax money, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, there are different opinions and different calculations on this. The last study for the Croatian government by foreigners, our shipbuilding experts in a significant part reject. There are serious analyses and serious calculations. Known economists claim, as much as investments in shipbuilding are currently returning to the state equally. It is claimed by one of the experts from the Croatian Economic Institute in Zagreb. Second, Professor Lovrincevic says very clearly about the famous subsidies, the man who runs the Finance Department. He says there is no shipbuilding world that exists without subsidies, whether or not the subsidy is visible. And we are in the light of the restructuring of the shipbuilding system have defined that through what time there is no subsidy to shipbuilding. We may then have chosen that we do not have shipbuilding or that we do not have a ship as the last global product this country has or that this nation has. For example, the study that was made in 2005 and which projected Croatian shipbuilding in 2005 and 2018 is counting on the multiplication and effect of what all industry as it does with shipbuilding is paying the state to the state budget, the study says that in 10 years to invest in shipbuilding that is needed to finance production regularly and that there is no delay for the Croatian state to be in plus 8.2 billion. So we think that all these options are at least right and I can get the right to debate, not to judge the shipbuilding industry as it is judged in public and through the media. We don't think that's good, we don't think that's right. Subsidies in shipbuilding, i.e. the problem of what is mentioned in this budget, cannot be more serious. Now, these are all the reasons why we think that in these 3 or 4 essential areas of the budget, the budget does not correspond to what we have for 15 years on the Croatian political scene as regular parties, and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76073	Thank you. In the follow-up of the debate, the respected representative Željko Pavlic on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76074	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President, for the representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen. So let me just say a few more words about this problem. So, we as regional parties are particularly sensitive to the position of the regions in the Republic of Croatia, and this may be an opportunity to warn ourselves that we are actually witnessing one of the opposite processes in the Republic of Croatia, that in the Republic of Croatia we are not going through regionalisation, we are not going through decentralisation, we are going through centralised, we are going through further edification of the Republic of Croatia. This is not good for us, it is our general view that exactly the regions and lower units of local self-government should be taking care of the standard and all the needs of their citizens and to the fullest extent possible. Unfortunately, that's not the case now. It is therefore the case that we have a procedure that the Republic of Croatia is a state with a very strong so state, which is primarily seen symbolically and in this budget in which the Republic of Croatia, therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has its ministries with a huge amount of budgetary resources, we have heard here and here that only somewhere more than 7% of these funds are under the control of our municipalities, cities and counties. By contrast, as early as 1997, a different schedule was not much more important, yet something in favour of local self - government units. Then these units participated with 11.5% of the total budget, the City of Zagreb participated with 5.7% and the state was with 82%. Today it is the state that has more than 90% of the total budget. We really can't support it, so it's our position to reform tax policy and therefore change it in those relationships, as my colleague Ivanish said. What they would like to warn, therefore, is that regions and regions should be the bearers of economic development. As an example, I would like to point out the position of textile and footwear in the Republic of Croatia. So it's an industry that's concentrated, much like in shipbuilding. So, in one end of our Republic, in the northwest, we know very well what the problems are, therefore, in that branch of industry and what should be done to change that. Unfortunately, our county, cities and municipalities have no instruments to do this, and the state simply won't because it from its comfortable chairs here in Zagreb won't actually see it, and I believe that our regions, municipalities and cities would have that opportunity, they would certainly intervene. In this way and therefore by applying income tax, we will be in a position to strengthen only some cities in the Republic of Croatia, there will be no situation that the City of Zagreb will have many of those, and at the expense of those small environments that have been neglected and we will again witness the depopulation of these undeveloped environments, which we should certainly avoid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76075	Thank you very much. For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76076	Thank you, Mr. President, honored representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen. I would very much not show this security expressed by my colleague Cain that this is our last budget, or budget that this government brings, and which this composition of the Parliament will adopt because as far as I know, elections could happen in early 2008. What I'm saying is unlikely, but so I wouldn't be in such a hurry with this optimistic or this one I don't already know what kind of findings my colleague Cain has shown. I mean, it doesn't matter who votes for this budget at all, whether or not to vote because actually this Croatian Parliament is one unrepeated place where the budget can be brought with 25% votes plus one vote. In all other municipalities, cities, counties for such a thing, it takes 50% plus one. It's obvious that a few years ago someone wanted to avoid exactly the one and making a budget has one political charge and conflict so we entered, obviously this government didn't want to change that practice so the fact that HSLS is actually going to vote for this budget almost doesn't mean absolutely anything when it's really possible to bring just one club. So whether or not someone is going to vote, or not they are actually missed first, others are very questionable for the simple reason that no one has a mandate to have some local self-government, some space precisely because in certain political talks they feel the alleged pressure to actually assess whether or not that environment will receive some funding from the state. So I say all together we actually have a budget ahead of us which is more important than the budget we've been making in the past since '92. years, and let's say, if I do remember a little bit more clearly the last 10 budgets were mostly similar and identical structures, except for that mild fact that it actually increased slightly or significantly, so then we can just see whether, that is, how the state shows it as whether it's good or a little better or a little bit worse, or a little better master. What's really important to us from the HSLS club, and that's just insisting on this... the development of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've been doing this almost like a mantra since '92. The year we sit in this House, we are aware that there is richness, that is, for both us and about Croatia, is worth the rich north and the poor south. The reasons for this particular division into something that is richer parts of the Republic of Croatia and poorer are conditioned and some historical reasons, and possibly also political, but it certainly was an additional point on and was precisely this war that took place, which we had there in the early 1990s when all the spaces didn't suffer equally and it was good that not all suffered equally, that indeed there was a space that did not suffer war destruction, let's say, as the eastern Croatia suffered, and so there were also rich spaces, such as the Vukovar area, the Osijek area, and Baranja had actually become poor areas overnight. And what we've always insisted on is that it would really almost be anticipating certain political processes and political movements, which is that indeed a wise government, and one of the mechanisms on which the government shows its wisdom is right through the state budget, trying to lead a selective policy, and where it will rightly valorise the fact that some of the places of gain, not their own guilt, could not develop evenly. It's perfectly clear to me that it's relatively easy to say, but it's as obvious as you yourself know from that tennis, tennis termology marriage point and it's not so easy to do, and then some times it's really like this by some kind of momentum. I was in this Parliament last year, having a lot of problems with representatives from one party when I defended that budget because it seemed to me that the 2006 budget had, for the first time, slightly more significantly valorised the territory of eastern Croatia. The analysis should now be carried out as well as I as a representative, and I have no idea if everything that was in any way envisaged, whether or not it was spent, but certainly I still have to say that Eastern Croatia has not actually caught a rhythm with those other parts of Croatia. You just have to remind yourself of how the banks actually passed in those areas, just to mention "City Bank", "Zupanjska Banka" and "Slavonska Banka", how I don't know you have those capital investments in infrastructure, that in some way these spaces were cut off. Sure do until '98. You couldn't have expected years to build corridor 5C for the simple reason that a certain space was still under, was not, was part of Croatia but was not under our constitutional legal authority but or I don't know you couldn't develop the Sava-Drava-Dunav channel, that these are all the things that are, in fact, waiting for us some better times. But it seems to me now, after 15 years, that the patience of the citizens is a little bit like that, and that is why we too would appeal to the government's wisdom and responsibility to really try to see that there are positive developments, above all economic processes which then retain citizens in the area. They're being held back, in a way offering what's very important, that's the future. They're offering perspective. And I'm saying, it's a very dangerous tendency I don't know that Zagreb is on average growing for one Vukovar a year and that actually these spaces I'm just saying that before the war they were rich today, they were irrevocably poor. What is always, in theory which is dangerous and theory, and through theory teaches us also the practice that what is poor becomes even poorer and what is richer even though we say in this Croatian, pardon in European terms it is not particularly rich. And then these unnecessary impatiences are created on the route I don't know Osijek-Zagreb, or I don't know Split-Zagreb or Rijeka-Zagreb and we don't think it's a good thing if we have a clear strategy that we think of Croatia first and foremost as a unique whole in which there is exactly that diversity that should make us happy. Or I don't know, all my life right now, all my life to drive into those three or four cities. For these very reasons, it is very important that what my colleagues were talking about in front of me, it is precisely that this life in these small units of local self-government must become attractive, there must be actually tangible reasons why they would want to live there. If they're going to stay alive then they really need to be offered those more or less all of those contents that belong to one normal life. And that's why this debate is going on, which was launched last week, it's still going on. It is this distribution of income tax, in fact it still shows that they are exclusively waters of political or legal artillery, and very few of them really argue whether someone was getting something that they had no right to, whether they are now actually or are now doing some correction that is certainly not perfect but where they would have to insist on that correction that there is no point in making money in the place of "x" and that I don't know the tax on profits is being collected elsewhere. That's what I say all very, then, these are very important things that I say we shouldn't break them through these political discourses like it would be, I'd be much happier and happier if it were to happen through a reasoned debate where indeed this force of argument would convince us that something must happen. I really wouldn't want Croatia to be a pre-centralised country because I've always said that Zagreb never had in its history, did not mean what Paris meant for France, nor was the heart and brain of Croatia. If Croatia had had a completely different historical development, and this is exactly how this trend of Europeanisation that we are looking for, we could point to right now. Well, last week we were discussing this population policy, so we just came up with this big question, are we or are we not a modern nation? According to some of our statements that reveal us, we still show how complicated we are in the past in some way. But here's the population policy, or that different demographic policy, is exactly possible even if the budget is distributed in a different way. We, too, are declaring ourselves to be a society of knowledge. Here we are facing, I don't know today or tomorrow or these days a strike of education will begin. I can remember that there from the late '80s. year, from those we say time, just to compare that the professor's salary in high school was roughly the same in the same dinar at the time with the judge's salary in the municipal court. Meanwhile, there were drastic differences. It's very the same dangerous tendency, is it just to take, for example, one Germany, and then maybe you're looking for, if you're looking for motives, the reasons why Germany today is one of the most developed countries? Just because the Germans have long realized that insisting on a well-paid teacher, a teacher, is actually the basis of their country's future development. And I'm afraid that's actually the fact that we're out of our minds so that right now education and this primary and secondary school and preschool and this is high that it's very important that it lags behind some other segments of our own, yet important and still relatively poor society. I think something should be done here, and I think it's something that people who work hard in the field have done for years to actually deserve one valorization of their position. Also, sometimes we do, we take paliative measures, and that's the idea of free textbooks. I think there's also room for criteria to be made because there are really people who can provide their children with textbooks without any major problems, and it's precisely that this early bird or the politics of equal stomachs really has no reason to be true in all segments. Second objective... is said to be an expression of the level of social rights that should be placed in Croatia's social states. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the level of existing social rights and if... is a major financial burden, however, not enough to ensure the quality of life of users of these rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this respect, in our opinion, the budgetary establishment should develop the possibility of a possible increase in the items relating to individual rights. For example, there is a need to try to increase funding for children’s allowance and parental benefits further. This would certainly support the achievement of the objectives of national demographic policy and would also be more than good to allocate additional resources for active employment policy and care for people with special needs, family protection, children and youth. These very weak subjects, they should also be taken into account. Employment, too, opens this big problem exactly the fact that a large part of these banks of ours is actually the largest part of our banks in foreign hands. We repeat this already as a mantra, precisely the interest of this foreign capital is just to extract profits and not exactly create new jobs, and we think that we have to find some other modes in employment to solve this big, actually burning, perhaps the biggest problem in Croatia. Also, what will happen to the new pensioners, does that end of 2007 mean when it enters right before the elections that it's a timing for their resolution, their number is large, it's somewhere around 320 thousand. These at least, the old ones had the Constitutional Court's position, these new ones actually have just a promise, and in our opinion, something needs to be used. I think that my colleague Ivanis spoke very competently about health problems, and what we would think about in the HSLS Club is that there really is a space and that is still after fifteen, sixteen years of establishing an independent and democratic Croatia. We don't really have an inventory yet, we don't have a catalog of all our assets, and we think it's about time. And that's what we were talking about when we talked about the State budget implementation report for this year, for the first semester, we just said that it was high time to execute that one list of all these assets that could certainly be precisely for these necessary reforms of justice education, health care and there could be no means of finding any resources, and even then the task in our opinion, at least in some ways the calculations show would not necessarily be necessary. But let me just say, since it really doesn't matter how the HSLS vote will still vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76077	That's what we wanted to hear. Otherwise, with regard to this facility, which counterpart Kramaric indicated why the budget with this majority could be passed by 39 votes. This is because it is so established in the Constitution because the Constitution says that if the Constitution is not otherwise defined, the Croatian Parliament makes decisions by majority of votes if most MPs are present at the session. And that provision has been in the Constitution since the 1990s and remained unchanged in the earlier amendments to the Constitution and in the earlier articles of the Constitution where certain laws have been found to be passed by a certain majority. This was in the Constitution before the 1990s, and in the Constitution of the SR of Croatia, and in the affairs of that Parliament and this Parliament, and no one changed it. For the HNS Club, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76078	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister! Here, the budget, especially the last budget in the term of this Croatian government, is an opportunity to assess the results of the overall rule, and I will say something about that too, but first of all, I would say something about the revenues and expenditures of this budget and these issues that we have discussed in recent days, which is a question of decentralisation or just fictitious decentralisation because real decentralisation in Croatia is unfortunately not yet available. So the income tax here is reduced, of course, if it is compared to the profit tax which is, of course, a significantly more taxed tax, at this point it is certainly so. The ratio of these two taxes is such that the state actually gets a billion kuna, therefore the state has no loss at all. She loses about 2 billion income taxes, but that's why she gets a total of 3 billion for profit tax growth. Therefore, if you really wanted to go towards some decentralisation, then the state should use some other mechanisms rather than those used. The Croatian People's Party also proposed to liberal Democrats that the property tax would also be a tax belonging to local self-government units and with half a billion of the tax for 2007 would go according to some indications of increasing the income of local self-government units, so the state, not only the city of Zagreb, would take part of that burden. This thing with the city of Zagreb is a completely wrong approach, of course I have to say. The logic of equating or introducing changes to any system is that no one, if possible, is eliminated. The city of Zagreb is being abolished about 600 million kunas, they say more, close to 8 hundred million kunas and the question is whether the city of Zagreb will be able to function in the way it works so far not by entering whether every item in the politics of the city of Zagreb is justified, I am there an opposition councilman, but I don't think this is a good approach because the state would have the actual will to decentralisation should actually lay off the property tax and thus participate with some half a billion kuna in that redistribution of the financial cake. The state did not do so and in fact the finality of all its concessions, the income tax rate, and one part thereof, is that it will have a billion kunas more than last year. So what decentralisation we can talk about. As far as expenditure is concerned, it is obvious that consumption is growing, and by this is indeed a pre-election budget, the budget vote for us and then you will see what happens. So they're getting paid. Salaries rise at 111%, though they are said to be health funds, pension, for employment, so the wage growth is 7%, which is also not a small wage growth if we see that some active items of this budget actually do not grow or stagnate. So this budget raises the cost of promiscation, so what belongs to the service for a full 163% which is a huge amount of growth of that, and also intellectual and personal services of 131% and 31%, respectively, which is the same big growth and it's big amounts of money that reach about a billion kuna somewhere. So it's about the growth of consumption, and then I'm going to show that those items of budget that could be elements or levers of development remain the same, or very slightly growing, so they can be said to stagnate. For example, the ministry that spends a lot of money, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I don't know why that, the Ministry of Defence, is somewhat clear to me because we've come up with a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces, the Ministry of the Family, the defenders, generational solidarity. Those ministries are growing with two figures. The growth in the revenues of these ministries and the expenditure of these ministries, so among the largest consumers of money in the Republic of Croatia is double figures, so 10 per cent and more. At the same time those segments that could be elements and levers of development, they either grow very slowly or fall as the Ministry of Economy grows by only 4.21% and the economy and entrepreneurship in that ministry with only 100.2 90 and 100.3%, respectively. So the ministries that spend growth by 10 percent and more, and the ministries that should enable production and development, grow by 1, 2 or 3%, and by this is a pre-election budget whose message is like I said, vote for us and then you'll see what happens because of course it can only be a short-term gain, because if there is no investment in development then of course there can be no gain in the long term for anyone. Especially interesting are those items concerning education, science and what is the explicit purpose of development. The Fund for Development and Employment falls to 60% of its last year's amount, and it is really not easy to understand, and the Regional Development Fund that we are so proud of and where we have so many problems, namely the need for regional development because we know that some parts of Croatia are 17 times less developed than some other parts of Croatia. The Regional Development Fund does not grow by 10% but only increases by 1.06%. The scientific research activity that we talk about so much, we are talking about Croatia and the knowledge society growing by 1.27%, and I will particularly look back on the stories of a major growth in education and science, and it is said that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is saying that since 2003, money growth for the Ministry of Education and Science has been an amazing 38%. However, if you follow how the state budget grew during that period, so in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, then you will see that the share of the budget of the Ministry of Education, the sciences of sports in the overall budget actually fell slightly and did not grow. So just as much of these fascinating, amazing 38% have grown and the total budget. Therefore, for those four years, the share of education and science in the overall budget of the Republic of Croatia has fallen slightly and has not grown, and this is very clear from the annual growth of the budget of the Ministry and the annual growth of the Croatian budget. And what kind of society of knowledge we can talk about and how we can talk about that is our fundamental, fundamental goal, the fundamental determination that will then bring us a better one. We know that in this relationship we are significantly lagging behind, that the separations in Croatia for education and science are significantly below the countries we would like to get close to, for example, Finland or Ireland, and we have been standing in the same place for four years in this regard, groping and someone is satisfied that the minister says it is an incredible 38% growth forgetting or hiding that there is no growth in a relative sense but a slight decline. And something about the salaries of educators. The Croatian People's Party fully supports the union's demands to increase wages by 20% because it is absolutely unacceptable that the salaries of educators, therefore those who have to have a high or higher volume by 14% than the Croatian average and by 23% less than the average of employees in the economy, and we know that the Croatian average is not the average of high and higher school supplies and that in such circumstances, with increased requirements for teachers, we have very difficult physical working conditions, we have overcrowded classrooms, we have a large number of schools in three shifts, we have very demanding, and we have high well-prepared reforms, Croatia's national educational standard. We have a national prom that has entered the same song, how we can expect that with a 6% salary growth that is less than the average wage growth in Croatia, that we will achieve some kind of shift in this field. And that's why I think it's essential what we should do, it's a request of the moment, it's a fruit of all that's happened over the past three years and even after that, I don't add foreign or narrow ideologically, but the fact is that today's salary for educators, people with high and higher school supplies is 14% below the average salary in this country. And then what can we expect? So these are the things that I believe are absolutely poorly set up in this budget, and if, therefore, there should be a shift somewhere, then there should be development and employment in these areas, regional development, scientific research and education, and in all these areas not only this year, so for the budget for the next 2007 but the last 4 years we have constantly witnessed stagnation and there are no more serious shifts in this regard. And at the end of the two indicators that confirm what I'm talking about, what are the safest indicators of development and growth in a country? Employment growth on the one hand and export growth on the other hand. Everything else can be interpreted or not in the wrong way or the right way. But these two data, employment growth or unemployment in a country and exports, or coverage of imports by export, are facts that are impossible to dispute, and these two figures here are, of course, in these arguments, saying that this is a major shift. But it's actually a minimal shift over the past four years. The number of unemployed in Croatia over the past 3 years will likely continue this very, very slow trend and next year it decreased by ten, twenty thousand. So the one, the trend that became in the first year of 2000, and by 2003, between fifty thousand were not continued. The number of unemployed in Croatia in the past three years has been reduced by tens of thousands depending on how this methodology is and depending, of course, on the age of the year when these data are published, but this is it. The same coverage of exports found three years ago was not great, that is to say. It was, like, 46, 47%. It's about 48% today. So there's no movement. These are the actual results of this government's work. This budget will, of course, only bring about a slowdown in growth because this is a budget of consumption and not a budget of growth and development, and these are the reasons colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will not support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76079	Thank you. Seven rectifications of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76080	Thank you very much. A respected colleague said several exact, incorrect allegations, so how much do I get? First, it criticises why the Ministry of Defence, intergenerational solidarity, is growing double-digitally? Because a colleague gives money to those who created this country. Defense is rising by 11.5% to 5 billion. Hiring a defense attorney for 14%. I'd give a lot more. Permanent defense rights rise to 876 million or plus 11.7%. I hope that doesn't bother you. Furthermore, the same ministry is worried about our spring, so the child's allowance has increased to 1.7 billion or double-digits, as well as 23.7%. I think it's the good side of the budget, not the bad side. At the same time, it is incorrect that those items that encourage entrepreneurship grow only 2%. It's incorrect because everything that comes out of it needs to be summed up. Not just directly what enters the entrepreneurship zones. What goes into corporate loans as a subsidy. It is necessary that the Regional Development Fund and what are the incentives of agriculture and so on. When it is summed up, it is seen that the balance of the budget is between investment and the social part.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76081	Second, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76082	Mr. President, a colleague of Hebrang has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 214 because he did not correct my incorrect claim but explained the claim I made. I said that the ministries that spend, that theirs, that their growth is double-digit. He agreed that it was two digits and explained why. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a controversy that had some signs of ideological doctrition at times, which, of course, I completely reject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76083	I don't agree that this is about correcting an incorrect quote because you've been making certain claims. The representative of Hebrang challenged and explained the reasons why, as a result of which he challenged these claims. It's a dispute debate part of the claim. You claim that your claim is correct, and the representative argues that it is incorrect. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The second correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative, Anto Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76084	Dear Mr. President, Honorable Representative Rados stated incorrectly that income tax is more tax than income tax. I'll just take one piece of information from the Ministry of Finance and let the agent know. The realisation of income tax in 2007 will be around 10 billion kuna, 9.9 and the realisation of profit tax means together according to the old law as collected by local administration units and self-government and states will be around 7.7 billion kuna. Therefore, the representative incorrectly stated. Also, the real work of the Government, which he eventually assessed through a budget assessment that will not be carried out by the Croatian People's Party, I think the best answer is that from the beginning of this government's work it has been through the discipline of harvesting and tax revenues, as well as by the discipline of spending the funds, the total gauges of the budget have been increased by nearly 28 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76085	Third correction, respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76086	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct one of the allegations. When Mr. MP said that, that development had been stopped in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and Investment. If the country's total growth was 31%, investment in the state and the ministry has so far withdrawn 33.66% or 2 million and 619 thousand kuna. That's 2 billion and 619 million kuna. And in order to do that, I'm going to tell you only one indication that a billion-and-200 million kuna claim was found in the Ministry between 2000 and 2003. And if the Ministry had signed 40,000 deals for shift work, it was only the minuses found between 2000 and 2003. And that's... In 2006, it paid 320 million, 8 kuna all minuses to bring down to one acceptable level today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76087	And respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76088	Thank you, sir...... Well, here's a colleague in his grill who notes that we have a large number of schools working in three shifts that are absolutely not true. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, unfortunately, it's not true. We have a large number of schools with insufficient students but a very small number of schools that work in three shifts. In Zagreb County, the case is only in Dugi Selo, which could have been achieved by another organisation. There is very, very little in the City of Zagreb. According to that, it's a really guilty allegation. Second, he says this country doesn't care about school, which is not true. This state has covered all debts incurred in high schools and closed accounts thanks to your disrespect for collective agreements. And thirdly, high science in this carelessness has participated in the period from 2003 to now with 46% increase, more than 46%. I hope the next budget will be even more significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76089	And the next correction, the honourable representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76090	Thank you very much. So here, speaking of the salaries of educators, the MP expressed great concern and agreed with their demand for a 20 per cent increase, saying in this regard, I quote: "That it does not look at it as party or political."which is incorrect. Because I'm just going to remind him that the government where he served as minister in 2000 has reduced salaries by 14% to those same educators.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76091	Next correction, Honored Representative Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76092	It is an incorrect quote from fellow MPs who said he quotes us in all these areas where stagnation occurred, not improvement and development. In this context, he also mentions education and science. In addition to what the colleagues corrected in terms of increasing the budget for higher education from salary increases, it is also denied and allocated funds while 800 million kuna for capital investments in university campuses in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek, Dubrovnik and Mostar, and 700 new subsidies of housing loans to young scientists and 50 percent increase of funds by various equipment in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76093	And the esteemed representative, Ruža lelic, is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76094	Mr. President, here's a colleague who's already corrected some of the allegations I was thinking about, so I'm going to look back at this one quote that my colleague said there's no increase when it comes to regional development. I would like to say, here's the data that shows that in 2007, a billion and 194 million are allocated to various regional development projects, which is 548 million more than in 2006, and 5 times more than in 2003. And when it comes to school care, then what kind of concern did it really exist when not even those Christmases, the jubilee awards, and that's a billion-dollar-and-200-million-dollar debt. And now here are the colleagues who said that this is also about co-financing and housing loans, about transportation, co-financing of inter-urban transport in free textbooks and a number of other things that can't be pointed out now. That means it shows real care for education and education as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76095	Thank you. And for the SDP club, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76096	Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We are entering the final year of the government's mandate, Ivo Sanader, and before us there is a document telling us that the government and HDZ will try to hide facts and governmental inefficiencies in the election year, in the direction of economic policy, the fact of the failure to run development policy, the lost race for safe energy sources, abandoning rail modernisation projects, modernising refineries, well-organised agriculture and food production that could have been competitive in the European market. The amount of the state budget of more than 108 billion kuna shows that in 4 years, the amount of state spending increased and that revenue increased by more than 28 billion kuna. This results in significant high inflation in recent years, among the highest in Europe, an increase in some taxes, excise duties, burdens and the elimination of tax relief for citizens who were regulated taxpayers. Just for notice, I remind you, a high water contribution, a burden on the economy regarding waste disposal, participation and excise duty in health care. The inefficient Croatian government under the leadership of Ivo Sanader in the last three years led by the original password "Let's Start Croatia" managed to be late in the construction of the Master's gas pipeline Pula-Karlovac and only two years, to forgive. This will make Croatia dependent on import gas, endanger Croatia's supply due to the conflict over the prices of Russian gas, stop the development of the gas distribution network from reducing the export potential of the petrochemical industry and by stopping production always during the winter period. Number two, she managed to forget the modernisation of refineries in Sisak and Rijeka. Instead of welcoming the 2007 election year as a year of modern INA refineries with huge quantities of derivatives exports and the quality of Euro 5 we enter a year of large imports of derivatives, and we also witness the largest record-breaking foreign trade deficit of nearly $11 billion. Of course, that's when the INA wins. And we are witnessing that in the years of the biggest business success of oil companies in the world we are proving as a country of high prices of derivatives and bad business results of the national company. We are entering the election year with government stories of modernising refineries only around 2011. And that's why INA sues reporters who dare say Super Gas is garbage and they have nowhere else to export it. That's basically what you understand, press the press if they don't say, if they tell the truth. Three, stop specific investment in the modernisation of railways. And don't run the development and modernisation of railways. For two years they praised the failure of management, created conditions of uncertainty in railway transport, insecurity of HZ employees, but also many companies related to the business of Croatian Railways. But here comes the 2007 budget that talks in the election year about modernising railway infrastructure, not Croatian railways. Railway infrastructure. He's investing in railroads. And for what railroads? What railroads? Believe me, the railroad workers of the Croatian Railways certainly don't. They are currently left with restructuring and layoff problems. In the election year, the truth is opened and told in the media about the modernisation of railways but with the end of around 2015. The Croatian government has also managed to forget Croatia's shipbuilding as a feather of Croatia's exports. Accumulated business problems, accumulated unpaid bills, forgotten restructuring and modernisation processes except for an honorable exception, "The Oilers", which he did far earlier and without the government. Payment of obligations for foreign consultants but their solutions will not apply in 2007. Well, I guess we won't be talking about the government's bad moves in the election year and the bad news. Well, it's good enough that in 2007, there will be a payment of due commitments that will not be able to execute the shipyard, so it will be paid out of the state budget. Our government thinks we have enough major exports, so we don't have to worry about shipbuilding. Shipyards in the election year remain with debts, structural problems and represent a great uncertainty for employees and co-operatives. The government succeeded in agricultural production during past budgets and large amounts of subsidies, but at the same time the government did not pay them. The fact that peasants do not see figures in the budget but ask for the money they promised is a sign of their impatience and misunderstanding of the Croatian government, so Prime Minister Sanader urged them every year to further education in the cabinet. Of course, the results of such incentives by numbers and not by coins are the result of a decline in total plant production of over 8.7% in the past year, and we believe that this one will not be much better either. The result of less work on the ground, more enormous food imports in recent years, and in particular 2006. But we have one positive consequence of this kind of fostering agriculture. No EU country is afraid of Croatian agriculture and there are no complications with negotiations with the European Union. They do not fear the competitiveness of our agriculture but see the challenge of increasing their exports to Croatia, which is only the efficiency of the Government of the Republic in negotiations with the European Union Commission. Of course, following these successes under quotes, the start of the Croatian economy also shows the results of such ineffectiveness. So let's just try to list some of the results with which we enter the 2007 financial year. The economic growth rate for the past 3 years on average will not exceed 4%. Far less than the achievement of 2002, 2003 and the lowest growth rate in Europe. Secondly, Croatia's larger external debt, resulting in more than 27 billion euros as a result of the largest foreign trade deficits and increased consumption related to imports. By the end of the term of office, Croatian citizens will be at least twice as in charge as at the beginning of taking over the mandate. However, we estimate that the biggest failure in the field of employment is. The struggle that Croatian citizens themselves are working to make a better standard in the past 3 years has not even begun. The number of employees compared to 2003 is already around 15 thousand people. And this shows most of the public service employees, and the 2007 budget shows that the fight for new jobs is not part of the ruling programme. Increased liquidity caused by non-payment of obligations in health care, railways, shipbuilding, failure to pay off obligations to construction companies for road construction has also made business conditions worse. But the efficiency of the Croatian government was particularly felt by Croatian citizens. Employees except that they do not testify to new jobs recorded and the lowest wage growth, the growth of only 1% of real salary is the lowest since the time of the end of the aggression in Croatia. The stagnation of wages is the worst way to pay the government's inefficient bill. Retired people have gone worse than employees. The government's inefficiencies pay with a real pension drop. Retired people with their months-to-month pensions can buy less food to survive, and their lives are harder every year. Over the last three years, they've been lagging behind the average salary again. Mirina, that's a word that scares employees at the end of the working life. New pensioners find it hard to imagine survival from a pension that is lagging up to 40% compared to old pensions. The continuation of pension reform has not been on the agenda in the last 3 years, a session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so even current workers who are still far from retirement must imagine their future as pensioners. In 2007 and with the proposed budget, we see no solution to these problems. Only the prime minister's promises remain that he will seek them out of his budget. Is this a transparent budget and a realistic deficit? So again, no strategy, no vision, just a promise because you just want to like the public. But believe me, it's a good government that makes difficult unpopular decisions once in a while. Both workers and pensioners are paid less and less, but therefore a gift from the Government of the Republic of Croatia through additional costs of health care. Health reform has brought about the shift of directors, the suspension of investments in the modernisation of health care and increased health losses. Loss of more than 6 billion results in non-payment of drugs and more than 400 days. Transfer of treatment costs to companies and introduce taxis and participations to citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In short, it is all gathering health care paid by Croatian citizens, but still helpless health care. And young people feel the 2007 Budget. Why? Untraceable incentives have disappeared for young entrepreneurs, beginner entrepreneurs and many other youth items. The Prime Minister guaranteed that we young people will not take to the future without hope, and what do we have in the 2007 Budget? Distribution, division only to some, investment to voters, and leave to young people a sold-out and impoverished state register. Young people may be left with nothing but hope without a future. If the Government of the Republic would like to see the citizens who are stagnating wages, real pensions are falling, buildings where inflation reduces purchasing power, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia would see the problems of the economy, the problems of peasants, entrepreneurs, health problems and when the Government of the Republic of Croatia's goal would be to take young people into the future of the 2007 budget to improve the situation resulting from the three-year ineffectiveness of the Government. An increase in the budget of nearly 9 billion would focus on development, new jobs, pension system, health system, youth and education. A huge budget of over 108 billion kuna is spent on increased expenditure on the cost of more administration and public services employees, in expenditures intended for political promises in the election years. Non-transparent amounts for projects in the railways, local self-government, encouraging entrepreneurs are amounts that point to possible election promises. Politically speaking, in 2007, the government does not allow job security citizens, the satisfaction of providing personal work with a safer existence for their family, before us the government provides a budget for how spending resources create addicts about the government. And even the change of the Law on the financing of local self-government was expected to further decentralisation of funds with the aim of strengthening local self-government units. Unfortunately, the text of the law states that only the redistribution of common taxes will be carried out which the central state is better placed. There's no further downturn on local self-government units. We are witnessing redistributions that increase revenues to some units of local self-government, but continue not to be able to invest more significantly in the development of the economy and jobs and the safety of their citizens where they will only reduce their arrivals in Mark's square at the doors of the Government. At the same time, the government is taking away some units of local self-government and part of their income is reducing these development projects and forcing them to join in coming to Mark's market. With the new law, we have increased the number of those who will think in their programmes by waiting at the door of the prime minister and ministers. The government made sure that other than the citizens of the addicts had local self-government. That, like everything we've done on behalf of the club so far, shows that it's dangerous and accelerated to move towards new centralised. So to finish, centralization is a problem of corruption and the battle against corruption with centralization is impossible. From the above, the SDP club will not support the State budget's 2007 proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76097	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Anto Bagaric. Correction of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76098	Mr. President, here in a series of false allegations I'm going to correct one, and I'm going to back it up with arguments, first of all with numbers. Dear Representative Linic said the government's mandate was not invested in the Croatian railways. I will remind the budget item in which both Croatian railways and air transport and river transport and ports are located, etc. In 2003, it was 2 billion and 154 million kuna. The 2007 proposal includes 4 billion and 219 million kuna, which means almost twice as much. Not to explain, every year, these funds have been growing further to modernize and invest in the railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76099	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76100	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Linic claims this government has managed to stop the refinery from modernising and again the same "spin" effect. In fact, a colleague forgets that it was the government who gave the mole the right to decide on the modernisation of the refinery without reason. I don't know why it's being delayed, but we've got it here countless times already. Next, he's talking about stagnation of wages. Oh, that's not true. The increased consumption is just saying the opposite with the orderly repayment of the loan. Record savings, great interest in buying shares of INA, and the stagnation of wages was clear in these public services where you drastically reduced it. And the third quote among the countless, says this is the last year of the government of Eve Sanader. People remember a lot like that from the '99s. years, and then a demonstration of dissension, impotence, ineffectiveness of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76101	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76102	Thank you very much. Also in a number of incorrect allegations, I will quote that there would be no after-doubt literally the following guilty allegation: "No one in the European Union is afraid of Croatian agriculture." Well, of course, because according to Croatian agriculture, a completely negative policy has been conducted for 4 years. In this budget I remind the Ministry of Agriculture has 3.3 billion or 14.6% more than last year. Support for farmers and fisheries is plus 9%, rural development of 50 million or plus 67%, subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium enterprises, agriculture 130 million or plus 44.4%. So this government has shown that in the future the European Union will be afraid of Croatian farmers. And just for health care, I quote, "We've increased our losses to six billion." That's not true. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the latest report, all hospitals owe suppliers a total of 141 million kuna, a result of the rationalisation and continuation of investment in modern technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76103	Next correction, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76104	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Linic said that there were increased health losses, which is Professor Linic's. Hebrang brought out what I was going to say. He also said that health care is increasingly expensive which is absolutely not true because many important shifts have been made. Let's just say in 2007, 200 million are scheduled for particularly expensive medicines that will now become more accessible and easier to use. To say the same increase in the quality and availability of health services in 2007 forecasts 323 million, then for specializations 35 million, for traineeships we were greatly tortured by health institutions 90 million and I could list a lot more. He also said that the salaries did not grow, and we remember the former government well when the reduced salary was 20% to 25% and our health care was reduced so that we did not recover from such measures and health care for the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76105	Thank you. Honorable representative Jure Bitunjac, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76106	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Linic said one series of incorrect allegations, and I'll just look back at two. One's tied to... Croatian economy, and others with the care of this government about young people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to first, it is not true that this government generates unemployment with its fiscal and economic policy. In fact, you didn't look at the basic indicators, and when you compare 2002, 2003 to the current one, you see that at that time the average was about 26, 27,000 insolvency legal entities, and today it's about 21,000, 21,000 and 500. Also, the number of employees was far higher in 2003 and for several thousands who worked in insolvency legal persons, and as far as young people are concerned, this government must have made a significant and large step here and on the issue of education of young HNOS, then the introduction of state diplomas, the establishment of new universities, universities in Pula, the adoption of the Law on Sport and Construction of a series of halls, both school halls and city halls, which the Croatian Government supported from the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76107	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it would be disastrous to live in a country like this as Mr. Linic sees it. However, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would ask the honourable representative to comment on the INA that are incorrect, refrain while the INA is in the process of including the APO. Because Mr. Linic as former Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Supervisory Board, normally his every statement has weight and I don't think it's good at times when we're all fighting for INA shares in the world market to go as well as possible, to earn them in this way. It is my request as Minister and as a man because Mr. Representative, you as former Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Supervisory Board and today's representative have, your word has the same weight and sure that your statements about INA at the time of the inclusion of the APO have the same weight and, I don't think they are, are going anywhere towards the goal that we all want to achieve, which is the best price of the INA. But we have the right to look at everyone's situation as it is, just let's not say when it comes to me in a different way because if we measured the deficit in a way that Mr. MP today discussed, then the deficit in some previous years would be far greater. But I'm inviting Mr. Representative to come over to my house one day for coffee so we can sit down, so let's get some things straight because I don't think this makes any sense, so I think we'll do it much simpler and easier. But two things I'd like to say anyway. In the 2003 budget, a billion and 200 million kuna were foreseen for Croatian railways. With a billion and 200 million kunas, miracles could have been made. This year in the budget 2 billion 900 million and with 2 billion 900 million, nothing can be done. Very strange math. Agriculture. Subsidies 2004 billion and 600 million, phenomenally high. 2007 2 billion and 700, and now this government, which has almost a billion kunas, has more funds for the agricultural subsidy, does not care about agriculture, does not subsidise agriculture, and at the same time the one that had a third of the smaller funds was concerned. And another thing when we're talking about election programs, I'd like to remind you of everyone who was in this House in 2003 and budgeting. A 600 million-dollar government amendment came to the vote itself. For structural reforms in agriculture with the obligation when the amendment was adopted and this was the ultimatum of the HSS to support the budget, it was said that the Croatian Parliament would receive a report on the spending of the 600 million. Never did this House discuss these 600 million structural reforms in agriculture. And what structural reforms have been implemented in agriculture? But a few months before the election, 400 million were paid for some kind of drought damage, etc. So much for the transparency of the public budget. However, I think that more can be made for 2 billion 600 than for a billion and 600 and that far more can be invested in Croatian railways by 2 billion 900 than for a billion and 200. To say that inflation in Croatia, which is currently at the annual level, is 3% of the largest in Europe, is at least ridiculous. Croatia has had the lowest inflation rate in Europe for years. Croatia has had increased inflation in the past few months, but not as a result of poor policy or wrong economic moves by this government, but because of disturbances in the world's oil market, which is unfortunately not affected by this or any other government. And the other thing is what I said and I'm gonna do it again. Some major cities in Croatia have raised municipal fees by 30%. So you can't say if several cities that cover a million and a half inhabitants, which cover 70% of Croatia's economy, raises the communal fee by 30% that it has no impact on inflationary movements. That's just not true. And that's something that stands. And I wouldn't say at all that those mayors probably in their analysis had justifiable reasons why they did it. After all, they are also responsible for the management of these cities and I have no intention of objecting to them at all, but I am only talking about inflation of 3.2% as much as it is in Croatia at this time. For the sake of the Croatian public, however, and for MPs, the cost of living was zero in the 10th month. You know why? Because the oil market has stabilized. The cost rise at the 10th month was zero. But to come and say that inflation in Croatia is among the biggest I think at the very least is ridiculous and incorrect at the end. The rise in revenue from the state budget is the result of inflation. Gentlemen, you've had almost the same inflation as we have today. The rise in revenue in the budget is now 10.4% and it was just a dream you could only dream of while you were in power. This is due to certain measures taken in the collection of state revenues, in the formation of the State Treasury, in the form of services doing the job. Tax breaks. What tax relief has this government abolished that they have a significant impact on income in the state budget? Another thing, as far as the state budget's revenue is concerned. Is the economy that is in a catastrophic state by looking at some people, whether citizens who are viewed by the SDP club are extremely impoverished can fill the state budget at the annual level 10.5% more than it was last year? Can it make an economy that doesn't work and can it make citizens who don't have a standard? I can't, because 10.5% is the result of certain economic movements. I can agree with the criticisms of colleagues from the SDP club, however, some things that are evident should also be recognised. What are the records? The treasure is a matter of political will. Nothing else. I'm not saying that a fellow Churchman and I'm sorry that he's not here he didn't want to set up the State Treasury. I'd be dishonest if you said that. And I never said that, and I'll never say that. However, there was no political will to form it. We know exactly why. Because the distribution of political cake and interest in the former coalition government was clear. And that's why a fellow Churchman didn't even come into a position to establish the State Treasury. We've got the State Treasury in place today. There are no more hundreds of giro accounts with several hundred million kunas. And it can't be said now is, it's not true. Anyone can go check it out. Also, it's easy to say corruption. However, one question is raised. Does one who has one single account, which has internal control and internal audit encourage corruption or one who had hundreds of accounts has no internal audit and has no internal control. But to say that corruption is also happening with the amended Public Procurement Act and quite different and transparently managed public procurement, these are all the conditions for preventing corruption in the state administration or public finances. But it's something that we need each other to admit what we've done and also to warn that it's not good to make it right because the process of introducing order into public finances is one long-term process that never stops. It must always be further rewarded and upgraded, but come with the claim that it is non-transparent something like this in the budget where everything is transparent, where everything is on the web pages, and we even tried to make that book. She can have a thousand criticisms. I'm not saying she's good or anything. But we did our best to make it easier for all of them to make it easier for them to discuss the budget. Well, Mr. Linic, you know very well that at the time of your term he stopped dating, I saw that his colleague Zgrebec was reading it and watching the Ministry of Finance monthbook, which uses people who work in finance to get to certain indicators. I couldn't do it as a parliamentary representative because you didn't issue that monthly report. Why, if everything was so transparent and public? And you today have a monthly report and you have this publication that was made in order to try and present your public finances in a different way to the citizens but not as a document that will be made of this or that minister but perhaps another better and better document that will be the result of the work of both the Government and the Parliament. And in the end, we are all in the best interest of publicly, clearly and transparently presenting public finances. If that's what we've done, it'll be estimated by someone else. I'm not saying that that document couldn't have been ten times better, though. Always that someone else does it can be better. The second thing, to talk about that shipbuilding, Croatian railways are in the country's deficit don't be angry but at least it's funny. Shipbuilding has nothing to do with the deficit and inequity of the state. The State shall pay neatly all guarantees that the shipyards cannot pay and that come to the state budget. So the state has fulfilled its obligation. Also, the state is giving guarantees to the shipyards for the lift... normal functioning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One question, you're talking about the Croatian shipbuilding restructuring programme, and you haven't even tried to build that programme in four years. If you had started doing it, we'd probably have continued it and finished it. And I won't be bad, I could open the story now and Victor Lance and the guarantees and everything, but I just don't want it. I don't want for the reason that shipbuilding is too important an economic branch on both macro and micro-region. Too much depends on the cities and counties in the area to discuss it in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76109	I thank the ministers. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76110	I'm correcting the Minister's incorrect allegations that a billion and 400 million were provided for the modernisation of the railways. He seems to have forgotten that the legal means of fuel consumption have been secured. So, Ministers, you gave up giving up that law. It is also not the mayors' fault for increased inflation. No, we're here. The water contribution is the biggest burden both Croatian citizens and the economy felt and put it into their prices, only that we will not realize that we are simply training not only the price. I'd like to say the same about shipbuilding. It's sad that in the fourth... Someone says it's your fault that four or eight years ago you didn't start. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For four years, it was enough because the renovated shipbuilding was in the period of the former coalition government and there was no restructure here for four years. But it doesn't matter. Next time, say it takes eight years. And I'd like to say that I accept the invitation of the Minister of Coffee far rather than throw myself out of my lying bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76111	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76112	It is an incorrect allegation by Minister Suker that any statements by MP Linic would offend INA's shares. The INA shares can defuse the INA management's poor work, can be defused by the disastrous work of a supervisory board that controls management if this control is not the way Minister Vukelic performed in BrodoSplit and a poor government policy that has not ensured the restoration of refineries and the introduction of new technologies because it would only raise the value of INA and not any statements by any MPs in this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76113	Minister Shuker did not say that the INA stock is falling due to the move of the respected representative Linic but to refrain. ... No, he didn't say that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't fix anything that hasn't been said. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76114	Thank you very much. I don't know where Mr. Minister's use of data is from, but it certainly doesn't come from an independent economic institution. If it did, then it would not have incorrectly claimed that inflation in the term of this government is the same inflation of the previous government. The Croatian Economic Institute argues that inflation in the government's mandate is three times larger than the previous government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76115	Thank you. The word is on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club Šime Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76116	Thank you very much. Well, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will not look back and take the right for everyone to have their views and assessments on the proposal for this budget to try to make positive points of view of this budget as well as the guidelines offered in addition to that budget. Certainly respecting the fact that this is the most important financial act during this year and not even trying to think about those who have speculated before the proposal is prepared that it will be such or such a government has tried to assess the economic movements within the state of the macroeconomic environment and the obligations it has from that budget and thus try to put together a budget that will satisfy all these needs, but based on opportunities. First, I would like to point out that Croatia lives in a macro-economic environment and that this macro-economic environment certainly has a mutual impact on certain movements within Croatia. I thus say that the euro zone estimates that economic growth will be around 2.4% this year. Economic growth repeats about 2.4%. Inflation is estimated to be around 2.3% in the EURO zone. Unemployment is going to be around 9%. The assessment is that in this year, a pardon next year will come to an economic stagnation in the United States and what is particularly interesting for Croatia in Germany. Since 1 January, their new VAT, which will be 16, has been effective from 16% to 19%, and since Germany is one of Croatia's major trading partners in Europe, it is clear that these economic movements will also have consequences for our movements. And recently, when I presented here the assessment of the movement, or the report on half-yearly movements, I pointed out, and today I point out once again that the largest and fastest rate of economic growth in the world is China. And that China only has a negative impact on economic movements in Croatia, and certainly no positive. Here are the movements and certain correlations that I will try later in the next exhibition. Also in this environment, it should be pointed out that this year, and also recently, an independent financial Japanese agency has given a further assessment of Croatia's improved financial rating, which is a continuation of the global rating, and this may also contribute to the assessment and completion of the term "stand by" of the IMF or "stand by" of the arrangement. This is the first time we are actually finishing this arrangement this year and this means that independent world experts, which is why the preparation of the European Commission has assessed that Croatia is well managed by public funds and that it is able to do so in the coming time. Of course, there will be an alert monitoring of the movement in Croatia, so there have been attempts already in Europe to assess whether this budget will now escape this control of the "stand by" arrangement that ended before the proposal for this budget and before possible control by the European Commission will establish Croatia. The proposal for this budget indicates that he had no intention. Therefore, Croatia will respect the trust that outsiders have shown it so far. How's this budget... and it is, of course, always with the draft budget being passed and following other laws because an instrument is needed for the implementation of the objectives set only one note will be attached to the previous law because it is already incorporated, incorporated into this budget of the Law on the financing of local administrations and self-government, and also about extra-financial funds because they are usually funded or financed mostly from the budget, briefly state the framework of the objectives for the next two years which this Government or ambitions wish to achieve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, it is concluded that the foundations of already established intra-state movements, and even in the November now economic movements they have, show stable growth. And based on that, I will only indicate three sectors that have a significant impact and have a significant impact on this macroeconomic stability and then later on these indicators that are within the core of the budget. First, industrial growth continues to be very stable, and this processing industry that is most important to us with the seasonal impact of shipbuilding this year and possible over the years, hoping, of course, that this shipbuilding will continue to have a positive trend in industrial production with us. Secondly, traffic is also growing in a stable and economic way, a building economic activity that is the third foundation, although here at the end of November still shows significant growth trends. They therefore confirm the assessment of growth that I will later make that it is realistic and defined. So macroeconomic stability is kind of confirmed and can certainly be predicted in the coming times as well. Economic growth based on such movements and an assessment of the movement in the external environment and on the domestic market continues to be estimated to be around 4.6 and can be predicted with certainty in the coming year, and in the coming years, about 5%, which makes a significant contribution and the possibility that this budget can absorb those liabilities that arise in the divisive side. Also fiscal adjustment, it is actually sort of finished or brought to an end. It will never be completed because it is always necessary to improve such fiscal adjustment. It is also projected and we can now confirm the gradual decline in the general government's expenditure, but also the payment of the general government's income. So that's the answer to the increase in income that it actually stems from economic stability and, on the other hand, from increased or increased revenues that, either on the basis of the introduction of controls, increased controls have already produced results. Thus, growth will continue to be the revenue of the state from one and the other activities, but of course from the other. The public debt of the state needs to be gradually reduced, and when it reaches a certain level, we hope that it could reach around 44% of GDP in the next two years. And a gradual decrease in external debt, and now the external debt will be very short to comment again. Of course, we're all sensitive to him, but that foreign debt, first of all, makes up the rest of the so-called. It's companies and everyone else who comes. After that come the banks, in third place comes the state. The external debt may unfortunately constitute three or four groups of the strongest, strongest groups with the rest of the product group or such an impact on that debt. In the first place, we all know that it was actually carried out I would say the full liberalisation of imports of goods of broad consumption by opening goods chains. And here these days, a whole series of supply chains are opening up. This is how it is likely that neither this future nor any other government will be able to do so, and especially since negotiations with Europe are under way, it will not have a significant impact on that. The second group of imports of oil and petroleum products, and we know what they do in total and through them and through the influence of partly imported inflation and what they do through influence in the financial sense, and also later on we see that both oil and oil derivatives exports are also a significant item. So I guess there's something left of it. The third group of extremely significant, which, I apologize for, I'm going to quote here because these days some data has been published importing cars. They don't go into numbers now because I could probably make a mistake but they say January, November, already now I think 66,000 and 500 cars so far have been imported. The forecast that by the end of the year, this group of imports that are pure imports, we have no regrets of participating in this product, which will probably be a record year of 70, seems to me two, three thousand to what, in 2003, so that we can mate now. Can we stop citizens from importing cars, etc. And we're going to see the effect of the excise duty that is based on it. They are therefore product groups. And the fourth seems to me to be coming a product group of working machines that we can say economically are the most positive movements. But here, all these external influences and demand, and banking, of course, through that instrumentation affects such demand on the domestic market. Thus, the demand of course on the other hand encourages that part of the demand other than the car and these machines that we cannot produce on our own. Therefore, these are movements affecting foreign trade. Exports are gradually growing slightly faster than imports, but the goal is this year, and especially in the forecast of those two years, to compensate for the negative effect of these imports, which is thus achieved because it is certain that we cannot, in short time, mate with goods imports, i.e. by tending and economic measures to make these imports as much as possible covered by goods in, and exports. But of course with goods and services. And now for a little bit about the annual goals. Evenly, it's... I hear and repeat the government's intention of even regional development, and I briefly link bypass and this Law on the financing of local administrations and self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally think differently or in other ways than that. But we are starting with the fact that Croatia had different goals at times in the stage of creating these 15, 16 years and therefore had to adapt other measures every year or every specific period to achieve it. If at this point, it seems to me, I'm not playing percentage again, but over 80% of budget spending has been spent in advance. With all the positions that that budget makes. And he's also a debt that goes in and out of pensions and social services and wages and everything we can't rule out in advance and not into local self-government. I'm sure not at this point. Therefore, while having a high participation in the pre-distribution in the structure of national income, that part of the instruments must be adapted accordingly. And on the other hand, these stories of who took whom. Well, I guess before and over the past few years, someone then passed that law and gave it something. But there's only one recession I take for granted, and I know very well how a pre-war account was conducted, according to the business units, and set up only one dilemma, and that's actually the answer to this thesis. So is it okay, for example? We all pay the impulses all over Croatia equally, so that the profits can be done here. Or it's okay to, for example. in Urinj or Sisko in refineries produces or I don't know where further produces a portion of profit and profit, so that that profit is paid here. I don't think so. But also this is the first stage of trying to decentralisation and that we need it and we need to move on regardless of who's going to continue it in that part of the way. In this sense, income is what state this year based on profit. And the profit suggests that the economy is growing, not only is it not a tax-relieving effect, but that the economy is growing, employment is growing. Polled unemployment according to data available these days says that around 11.7%, it's the lowest in the last 10 years. And I guess unemployment is also growing in part of economic activity as well as in these revenues. Therefore, all of these are indicators that clearly indicate that this budget and this government are setting fully firm goals that can be achieved with certainty and only in income indicators that almost 56.57% of tax revenues seem to me to be incomes. And when you look at the structure clearly that income and profit are compensated, and all of this is real growth that we think can be achieved in that period. With VAT and excise duty, the trend remains the same. So again, this correlation of cars says 4.6%, and before I knew it, in July 2004, when we were making decisions on new excise duties, there was fear of moving around in the area. Well, here's all these tendencies suggest that the revenues on this basis and that they're not knocked up for no choice, that they're really trying to make it happen, and that on the spending side already pre-determined expenditures that I've mentioned earlier and that I don't want to repeat, perhaps only in relative terms, that they also confirm in advance that most of these expenditures through debt returns, pensioners, salaries and remains fixed in advance and through increased social life. And this is especially seen through the help of families, etc., defenders, family, and others, the government achieves its promised goals. One at the end of the reason that I'm holding together from HDZ can also deny all the skeptics and say this isn't the election budget. If he were electoral then they'd be incorporated into him and so on. new pensioners, but the government I'm confident will find a solution for this year and for them as it was found for these previous ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76117	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are at the beginning and there were stories of inflation in the Republic of Croatia, so we cannot acknowledge and acknowledge the previous government of Ivica Racan that she had the lowest inflation in the recent history of the Croatian state. Let's not forget, in 2002 that inflation was 1.7%, 2003. 1.8%, last year 3.3% and growth is expected to be close to 4% inflation this year. It is precisely because he spoke to a representative of the HDZ Club that this government and according to socially sensitive categories meet its own pre-election promises and that they cannot agree to it until the end. The last time was the basis for the calculation of all social changes in 2001 and it was then raised from 350 to 400 kuna. I was deliberately saying how much inflation this year was. Let's not forget 2001 was 3.8%. If we look at the very basis of 2001, it is the basis for the poorest layers of citizens of the Croatian society to account for all social contributions that means the base of 400 kuna. I am interested and I ask the question if this is a relatively wasteful budget, if more than 9 billion are bigger how could the Croatian government, along with its coalition partners, not go to an increase in the basis for calculating all social contributions. Is that the social sensitivity you're talking about? I'll give you a few examples. For example, maintenance aid. In support of maintenance, it is given to persons or citizens in Croatia who are without any income or income less than the rights established. For example, a person who lives alone and has no income, has the right to assist in maintaining 100% of the base, i.e. 400 kuna per month. A family with four members of which two school children are entitled to 340% based on a thousand 360 kuna per month, and if they have some income, then it is reduced for that income and the basis. In this draft budget, the government said it was 490 million kuna. In my deep conviction, given everything that was in the past years, it's not enough. Because in what way you're going to convince me to monitor inflation in recent years with that base. If inflation is monitored then the base should be somewhere around 470 kuna. Also an extra for help and care. It is foreseen with 324 million kunas, and we know that the right to other people's care and help has persons who are simply incompetent because of their difficult health conditions, immovableity and going to haemodialysis, etc. and need the help of another person in full range and again this aid is 100% basic, or 400 kuna. If that's a partial need, say 70% disability, then it takes 70% of that amount, 280 kuna. I'm now asking Mr. Minister and you personally, if that's enough money to give someone full of it. The government also predicted 324 million kuna, and see how much this is compared to the 2005 budget. If we look back even earlier in the year, we are aware that inflation is not being monitored in this country. How, then, do you feel that you will fulfill your social sensitivity promises? The real word is also about disabled people. We know that the right to a personal disability has severe physical or mental impairment or people with permanent changes in their health, whose illness or damage occurred 18 years ago. Personal disability is 250% of the base, i.e. 1,000 kuna. Now I'm asking you, if we already have over 9.5 billion increased budgets, if we've forgiven 750 million kuna football clubs, or if it's just that amount, how come we can't find an increase for this most sensitive category of Croatian citizens? If one of these persons were placed in one of the institutions that owns the state, it would be paid between 5 and 7 thousand kunas. The most common concern for these people who are severely disabled who have increased needs and myself was a participant of a round table in Varazdin, where the parents of such difficult disabled people are immobilized who need additional medicines, for special diapers, different aids and all the love and money that your parents invest in, these thousand kunas is a drop in the sea. I ask you why not increase at least that base, at least by the amount of inflation if not something more. Because these parents are saving the state large amounts of money because the difference between a thousand kuna and five or seven thousand kunas is far in financial terms immeasurable without talking about the care and love of parents to those of their own children. And we're all talking about Natalie, demographic politics, but when in things like this we can show nothing of it. We know that compared to this year 2001, and we bear some responsibility for it, but to all those who come to the council's salaries, we gentlemen lost the election at the end of 2003, but three years have passed, why haven't you found a way to even it out and improve the position of professors and everyone else. For example, we also have that because of the low censorship that we have, means these low bases that the government deliberately does not raise, and the draft budget and the proposal to implement the budget does not show whether or not it intends to do so, the widest layers of the poorest citizens in this society lose the right to help because in the past period they understandably and pay, and in part pensions have grown. But here's what I'm going to do again. If the right to help and care in the house cannot be achieved by a person whose income per family member is greater than 300% of the basics, means a thousand and 200 kuna, means a pensioner who is single, who lives alone, who has his own apartment, who has to pay for everything he needs from the rent or something connected, electricity, water needs a month and something to eat, should also be heated, should and probably be dressed, he simply cannot get any social assistance in this country because of this low censorship. Therefore, the censors are low, why the government in the draft budget does not clearly say how much they will raise them. It's also about foster families. I'll just tell you that the same fee for foster parents, i.e. those who have to go to foster homes, are mostly children, but there are adults, bound again by this 400 kuna base. For a preschool child, it means 360% of the base, that's a thousand 440 kuna. Do you think Mr. Minister and you in the government, that it's enough for someone to take the children and that they can, except for their own, support them properly. I'm sure he didn't. For fixed persons, it's 480% or a thousand 760 kuna. But it's about the social. However, we must honestly say that I do not see in this draft budget some of the things the government has promised. I'd love to be corrected, but there's been talk of the Danube-Sava channel. I don't see him anywhere in this budget, I'd like to hear what the reasons are if he wasn't in the budget. It's a big infrastructure project. It should definitely be. I am not satisfied with the outstanding money for the area of special state care, for the mountainous and mountainous areas, by the way, gentlemen, where the new Law on Areas of Special State Interest, which you announced at the beginning of the term of office, or you think that the area of special state care has developed so much that it no longer needs it. For example, certain government officials are also going through Varazdin County and they promise everything and everything, and here's one of the newest things is that they will move and build a new district prison in Varazdin. The promise of clearly insane joy because it's being translated into a state budget about it, not a word or a word. I would also like to hear on which criteria both Varazdinska and Krapina-Zagorska and Zadar County have not received any assistance, all other counties have. And finally, about the salaries of the educators. You may say what you did when you were in power, but at the end of our term, the educators had higher salaries than in the early 2000s, it seems to me 13 to 14%. But why are these wages still lagging behind? The minister speaks of the knowledge society when it is necessary to transfer it into the salaries of the educators, it is not enough. It is proposed to increase the salary to educators as well as to all other civil servants. In what way and when they reach that lag. Apparently, this government's goal is not to increase them as well as the new pensioners will get when they get it. If they were serious intentions, that would be already in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76119	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague said that for a personal disability and an allowance for help and care, no increase in funds is true. Here we see that the funds are, for example, increased by compensation, assistance and care, the index is an increase of 156.67 compared to 2003, and the personal disability has increased by almost 30%. We have to say when it's spoken here about the means which I certainly don't think is enough and that it can satisfy us, but still the funds have grown. Then, if those funds were spent on diapers and other things, I would say that such rights are exercised through a health care system. Also, for raising the quality of availability of social care, 59 million kuna is foreseen so that progress is still in place. Now, can we be more or less satisfied with that, that's another.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76121	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76122	I refer to Articles 209 and 214 because I did not say there was no increase but we have an increase that has not followed inflation since 2001. If you count on what inflation is from 2001 to today, then the government should, if it has serious intentions, go with an increase in base...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76124	...which wouldn't be 400 kuna, but probably 470 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76125	Thank you. I don't think there's been any damage to article 209 or 214. Replica, the esteemed representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76126	Dear colleague of the Korenika, speaking of the salaries of the Enlightener then you mentioned when and how anyone increased or did not raise the salary, what was it for the former or those of the Government. I think it's important to say, to point out a very clear fact. At the beginning of the term of office of the government's salaries, the educators were 97 kuna higher than the average salary in the country. Today, the salary of the educators for 150 kuna is less than the average salary in the country. And that is exactly what the failure of this government, which is not in any way the reduced gap that was made in previous periods, has been able to continue, but has actually increased even more by continuous reduction of resources for education, science and for the salaries of educators, the gap between educational salaries, i.e. the salaries of teachers and teachers, in fact, only increased further compared to other public services. The comparison data with the average salary in the country in the economy is, I mean, catastrophic. It's better not to talk about what's even more devastating for this government if we know that the educators are all highly educated and that in the structure of that, when we look at the average is over 90% of the VSS, and we can't compare it to the SSS average salary. So it's not about this or that government, but the thing is that it's never really been until now that the salaries of enlighteners are below the average salary in the state. It happened only to this one, only to this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76127	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76128	Well, I can't disagree with my colleague, Lugaric, especially since my wife is an educational worker. Take, for example. that the latest data from the Institute of Statistics is that an average salary has been paid in Croatia is 4000 450 kuna. And therefore, if a 5% salary increase is offered according to the latest information and 6% of educators, but also to everyone else in the public service, I can only ask myself and you, colleagues. How and how long does the Government think that it can correct that injustice against educational workers and that they will arrive at others according to the qualification structure in the system of those who receive salaries or who are alimony from the state budget? These are obviously not serious intentions, if they were, then they would probably pay faster wages and go faster with dynamics than with others. Unfortunately, it's not like that. And speaking of knowledge society all the time, and the minister likes to talk about it very much, so let him take a little peek at elementary and high school to see if they have chalk, whether they have all the equipment that's tied up. Therefore, the enthusiasm of educators has a short life span. They are working under difficult conditions only the question is whether someone in Zagreb wants to see it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76129	Thank you. The word has a minister of finance, Mr. Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76130	Well, look, it's a shame to bid on the incomes that live people get. Today, the start of the Enlightenment strike, however, are the fact that salaries in all state and public services were reduced in the first half of 2000. The reduction was based on the signing of the Agreement with the IMF when it pledged to reduce the base 10%. The fact is that the agreement also made a commitment not to pay off the regress and Christmas cards and that there were still unpaid regress and Christmas cards and that today we have several thousand and tens of thousands of educational workers' lawsuits. The fact that a contract was signed setting out the provision to pay for the shift work and not paying for the shift work. The fact that it was signed by a collective contract is a salary supplement in the name of loyalty in the service 4, 6, 8 and 10, too, which was not paid. And therefore, there have been complaints from educators from nearly a billion kunas paid out of the state budget over the past two and three years. So, if those funds were paid off then probably today would be a different situation with the salaries of educators. But I'm saying, it's convenient to use politically, but the data is relevant and you can check it out. From 2000 to 2003, you have never raised your salary to educational workers. By the way, you cut them down and you didn't pay off your liabilities under a collective contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76131	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76132	So it is incorrect that Minister Shuker's salaries were reduced in 2000 due to an agreement with the IMF or some commitments with the IMF. No, the simple state of finance in the Croatian state inherited from the previous HDZ government was such that there was no other way but to carry out a whole series of restrictions to pay back the old debts, in order to save the remaining little functioning of the economy to which the state owed millions. And that's why I'm sorry. Billions. [[Intruder: Billionaires.]] That's why it had to go to a whole series of restrictions because there was simply no other way out. And the IMF has absolutely nothing to do with this, where the average salary and so on was reduced, when it comes to educators above the average salary in Croatia and today thanks to all the efforts of this government, the same average salary...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76134	... below average... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76135	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76136	It is incorrect that from 2000 to 2003 no salaries were raised. It was in 2001 and after the debate here in the Croatian Parliament that the salaries of educators were increased compared to all of these others when a new system of billing of salaries for educators was introduced, when the deficit of 5% with a plus 13% in the 2002 Budget was leveled. ... From your government. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76137	Thank you. Please don't talk, throw yourself away. The word has a distinguished representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76138	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It is truly commendable that the ministry has decided to make a popular publication on the 2007 budget, however, it might be good that you have waited for the adoption of the budget in the Croatian Parliament because this publication turns out that the state budget has been adopted, and if you have already been anticipating these future events then perhaps you should have written a sentence on the last page that a large number of amendments have been submitted, but that the Government has not accepted any amendments. But here we saw in this publication that the 2007 budget is actually a budget for a more even development of Croatia. We can read this in different ways, so let's say that Croatia has not developed evenly so far, because the development of Croatia was based on 90% of the tax money going to the Prime Minister's office, and only 10% remained with local self-government units, which means that it was not a very good redistribution of those 90% of the money that went to the prime minister's office because it was not good and was not evenly developed in Croatia. If even now what you call fictitious decentralisation will lead to it is nothing or can't be true because it would be really absurd that 200, 300, 500 and 600 million kuna can be guaranteed evenly developed by Croatia. But let me speak a few words about how this even development of Croatia has affected the region from which I come. Let me also talk about all four years, because this publication is also called for to be compiled in 2003 until 2007, so I have to say the following. So for any reason to develop that pre-condition is infrastructure. Unfortunately, I come from Podravina where we are absolutely traffic-insulated because the worst state road in the Republic of Croatia is the road leading from Vrbovac to Koprivnica and the road leading from Varazdin to Virovitica. These are two roads leading from Vrbovac to Bjelovar and from Bjelovar to Virovitica, i.e. to Djurđevec. These are the worst state roads in the Republic of Croatia. It was a plan to make them in the profile of the fast road in the term of office of this government. That's not gonna happen. There was a plan to make the first remounted rails on corridor 5-B from Crosses to Botov and to build the second rail track from Dugi Sela to Botov and on the other side from Karlovac to Duga Resa, i.e. the lower track towards Rijeka. That's not gonna happen. There's nothing even from... public crossings because there is a catastrophic railway crossing in the centre of the Križevci where the state road is at the level of a very high traffic frequency with several railways not even done so far nor is it planned in the budget for next year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about the transparency of the budget, then neither I nor any of you will read whether and when the fast road Gradec-Bjelovar, Gradec-Križevci-Koprivnica and, regardless of the high officials and HDZ and the Government will explain that this will begin next year, and in principle we will be building meters per meter, meters towards Koprivnica, meters towards Bjelovar and if we will have that pace, we are in Koprivnica for 500 years. Therefore, there are no government documents of the road, gentlemen, because 400 million kuna is foreseen in the Croatian roads for the construction of fast roads in the Republic of Croatia in the next year and the following years, and only for one separate road, so Gradec-Bjelovar is required 400, the Gradec-Koprivnica stock needs about 450 million, and in a document called the Public Road Construction and Maintenance Plan in the Republic of Croatia which brought the Government of Croatia on Christmas 2004 and fast roads are not mentioned. Therefore, those who promise to change these programming documents or stop creating an illusion among citizens that these fast roads will be built. And so we will wait again in 2012 to have a normal road from Koprivnica to anything else. An even bigger absurd is with a sub-level highway because instead of continuing where papers were expected in 2003, and the papers were waiting for us to have a track study and to continue designing, to create an idea project and a major project, and then Croatian roads had this as the first priority in fast roads and today we could have already started building a fast road, i.e. the sub-level highway Government is making a decision to make a study of the cost-effectiveness of a fast sub-level highway, which means that someone thinks it should not be built at all. Then what are we going to drive through the settlements? We're gonna drive through the city centers in that section? If we don't build it, and obviously we won't build Hungarians with Drava by 2015, on the other side of Drava which we will remain simply a small village, because there will be no connection with Drava or Varazdin, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Virovitica, Nasica, Osijek, down to Vukovar, but we will be driven through Hungary, and we will simply stay in the profile of the fast road, now we are offered... where it's only about the expansion of the state roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the railroad is concerned, the situation is disastrous, gentlemen. We had two large two interviews of the ministry's mega-minister on Croatia's trade so that today we would be in a situation that only 2010 will the Križevci-Botovo stock be completed, not that there will be a second track, not that a string track will be made, but only a remont will be made on the Križevci-Botovo stock. There is a turn called "The Lepavin Turn", right, 40 kilometers is a speed, and the speed of trains on that section is the most profitable railway in the Republic of Croatia, and we do not have the strength to put some money into the budget to quickly refurbished the railway station Križevci where we stopped in 2003 and remont to Botov to make a pass and to quickly go into the construction of the second track. If we do not do this, Hungarians will do it with Slovenians and not only will we lose those jobs, we will lose the corridor and we will lose it to go back to Kopar port and not to the port of Rijeka. Second, the others are... that he wants to invest in education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, this government has not built a single school in the Koprivnica-Kristevina County. Not a single school. She didn't give money for any school in Koprivnica-Kristevci County. We are now building a high school according to a private and public partnership project. We didn't get the money to pay off the annuity of using that school in the next budget either. We have 15 schools without school halls. We have a student dorm in the Križevci who is in catastrophic condition. Not one, no dorm room or dormitory rooms made in 4 years or planned for 2007, 2008, 2009. Seven, eight, nine years. We did not get the approval of professional associates in primary schools, that we have psychologists, educators, for foreign languages we did not get the approval to have in the 4th grade foreign language learning. It's an investment in education. In a balanced regional development. Now, of course there's been a problem here, but look out for me for four years we've been asking to build a palace of justice in Koprivnica. She's not in this budget, even though the minister told me on rebalancing that it was 2 million as little as I asked. I expected it to be at least one 20 now. There isn't. Big, big zero. There's no item. There is not even an item to build a prison in Bjelovar because people have been waiting 2 years for them to go to jail in Bjelovar, which covers 3 counties at all. So there's no money in this for that either. The only thing he has money for and this government...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76140	Here, allow me a sentence just that if I can...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76141	Finish it. He's got a lot. He's 56. Every minute that's... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76142	No, thank you. I won't finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76143	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would not correct all these incorrect allegations that Mršić made because a lot of data can be found in this budget and in the documents that preceded him. But I would correct the incorrect assumption that HDZ, or that this government was printing a book and that it showed that the budget had already been adopted. I'm glad you used this book, but you obviously didn't read it well, so you didn't see the 2007 proposal. That's a significant difference because something that's a proposal means it hasn't been adopted yet. Therefore, it is clear that you have incorrectly stated what you have stated. Don't be incorrect, at least bring out what you read.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76145	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76146	Well, for all of what you colleagues have said, this is a consumer budget because a lot of the projects that government officials tell stories about in the field, but when it needs to be translated into a state budget, it just doesn't exist. In doing so, the area of northwestern Croatia, which is constantly quoted as being highly developed, is strongly suppressed into another plan. Here, I'll give an example now. The fast road from Varazdin towards Ivanac and Leprechaun and towards the state border in Macelj is nowhere to be found here. There's also talk here. Also... It's the same when we talk about stripes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Even the railway from the Croatian-Hungarian border through Kotoriba, Čakovec, Varazdin towards Zapresic, which should be the 5B corridor reserve corridor, there is nowhere here or in the tracks. There's talk of developing regional railways, developing local railways, money in the budget if it's just not there. So who's cheating on who? Who's talking to whom? So it's obvious that a lot of projects will be on paper that will be in style holding water while the masters leave, but their tracks are gone. Here, I'm gonna set up again where is the Danube-Sava channel that's been talked about so much? He's gone. Therefore, it is obvious that it is a consumer, a story, but it is quite certain that the whole of northwestern Croatia is also denied in education because when it comes to taking what for example schools are doing in the area of the Varazdin County it can also be discussed. Cities, municipalities and counties are entering a public private partnership but only some are privileged to have the state build schools for them. Why, I wonder?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76147	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76148	Well, I'll really agree with you in your weight as colleague of the Koreans. It is therefore that none of the capital projects that should be aimed at not local development, the question of only one city or one county, but regional transport infrastructure is the most crucial of which there is no support in this budget and the most catastrophic is that the Podravska highway, the only government is considering it. Should we even build it or not? And what's said about this decentralisation that everyone here is going to get and the kid's just lost, and it's talking about 3 or 33 cities. Allow me just a few sentences about Koprivnica and that we have been giving up here for 30 or 40 years to build "Podravka" and that we have always been willing to sacrifice ourselves for the construction of new factories and my parents and parents of other citizens. And now someone's making a decision to go to Zagreb. That none of it has a Koprivnica that for 40 or 50 years we have denied that Podravka is being built. And this thesis about not making a profit in Koprivnica is created in Croatia. Well, gentlemen, Podravka is doing business in the area of the whole world. It was also created in Hungary. So what's the point of getting a piece of it? It's supposed to stay in Hungary because it's made there. Or should we all drag her to Croatia and figure out how to share her? But they can't be punished by those who have given up for years to create large businesses in their cities, and now we're being punished. Unfortunately, Podravka has had so-called "subravka" for the past five years. The tax loss transferred, she didn't pay for the profits, and now that she's gonna start paying for it, it's gonna be the top one that's gonna be picked up by the state. And Koprivnica, unlike next year's thesis, is possible at zero, and in 2008, it will lose a good 15 million kuna profit tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76149	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Imagine the situation that you are a parent of a disabled child and that you will be able to prevent all the obstacles that society has imposed on you and manage to integrate it so much that after kindergarten you go to school and engage in sports. Imagine yourself as a parent that you wish to enable your child's choice, however, the state punishes you. Look in front of you, look at Mr. Minister but Mr. Minister isn't here right now, and you'll see a man from the government who, along with other government members, immediately at the beginning of his term, abolished the right to release VAT on imports of cars and you as a parent do not give up. But that's not enough either, because you have to be careful about the size of the vehicle because the smaller vehicles don't fit the wheelchair, so by buying a bigger vehicle, you pay a bigger tax. Now imagine that Mr. Minister and Mr. Government never called and explained why they did not want to release VAT on imports of cars as disabled from the Homeland War on the same criteria. But you still don't give up and you want to take the train, but you can't get on the train. You want to take the bus, but you can't even get on the bus. And that's when the system stops you. The system, it's you gentlemen in the government and you here, my colleagues who raise your hand support such a system. You're forced to put your child in a home. Now imagine yourself leaving your child without your supervision with all due respect to all employees in Croatian homes to attend a school that they do not like, direct it to an occupation that is no longer competitive in the labour market. However, you as a parent, regardless of how many times your system has let you down, insist on your child's intention to finish school because in Croatia there is a Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment and a Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. If you're a slightly more parent then you know that this fund was founded two and a half years ago and you're counting, super well, my child will by one of the criteria whether by adjusting the job, self-employment or through quota employment to get a job. Someone's lying to you. Someone's fictitiously showing funds in the budget for hiring people with disabilities. The government is lying. There are no, there are no 37 million kunas for hiring people with disabilities and there will not be any in 2007. No one has been employed over that fund in the past two and a half years. So why should your child? Unfortunately, no one has even answered for it before. Your child will enter sad statistics, enter 48% who have no work experience or an even worse 78% that are on unemployment records for more than one year. Your child, regardless of his last name, is rehabilitated by your child who wants to work, will be one of the number 5 thousand 649 persons with disabilities who are at the Croatian Employment Service. Your child and you extend your further discriminatory hell. However, some of you may have remembered that you cheat the system and write your child out of school before the age of 18 to exercise the right to a personal disability. You think you cheated on the state? You're not. You tricked yourself. According to the new Health Insurance Act, your child feeds you because personal disability and other social benefits enter the property censorship and you don't work because you had to stay home to take care of your child. Then, as a savior, more than 6 million kunas appear for support programmes for the social empowerment of families, young people and children with disabilities at the point of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. This is where the fee item is inserted for citizens in the household and the money on which is 40 thousand kuna. I don't need to explain to you that all the money from that over 6 million is mostly for pay and work, intellectual services and phone services. At best, forty families can get one-time cash aid in the amount of thousands of kuna, so you come up with an affirmation of rights and an improvement of policy for people with disabilities and I return you to the beginning of the debate that your child, if with disability, does not have the same rights as other children in this country. Then onward, the Government's Committee for Persons with Disabilities. And you're interested in that body and what it does. And when you look at the composition of the commission you realize that there are unfortunately some dead members in the commission membership because the website is not an update over two years. And that commission has not sent any legislative proposal to the Parliament within three years, which is otherwise one of his basic tasks, but neither has the government done. We are aware of the fact that commissions are founded only as a front for work, but the government and the ministries are those who should make legislative proposals that would benefit people with disabilities. In the last three years, no law has been passed in favour of persons with disabilities, but it is not the government's fault but citizens. According to the article of today's newspaper, it is the citizens who should pay attention to respect for legal regulations and the rights of persons with disabilities, at least so says the Deputy Prime Minister. If we take into account that people with disabilities in income are included in all receipts and personal disability to pay VAT on imports of cars, that there is a reduction in participation in the purchase of orthopaedic and other aids and others, then it is not difficult to figure out where the money is coming from next year. For all these projects that the government has designed for disabled people, they will not be implemented anyway, but will only transfer the funds to next year. It is undeniable that the ministries have opened a tender for civil society associations and that these associations have been granted funding for projects, but why the same associations continue to appear on the lists of approved projects. When I think about it, I can't call the departments any different down the bank. Why the bank? So how else do you call an institution where most of the work comes down to state budget transactions and gambling wins? You've obviously literally understood the concept of decentralisation. Decentralisation does not mean completely abandoning the implementation of civil society associations by financing them without adequate audit. Decentralisation means cooperation, partnership with persons with disabilities associations but the ministries need to design and implement something because this level of guarantee that persons with disabilities from the whole country will be covered and when implementation is carried out by associations, then space is limited either to its members or to the field of work of associations. With this budget, you hit the athletes with disabilities, almost two million downgraded the incentive to engage in sports by people with disabilities. Also, with great promises, with the enthusiasm of the success of deaf handball players Mrs. Kosor offered hills and valleys and for their needs predicted a million kunas in the year when they went to the 16th Winter Olympics of the Deaf, where Croatia will represent six deaf athletes in ski disciplines. Besides them, they will be coached, team leaders, medical staff, interpreter, or 11 people, and they are not magicians. So much for empowering people with disabilities. Finally, when I looked at this budget according to the items relating to persons with disabilities, I was a little surprised by the fact that in the past three years, no law has been passed for people with disabilities, why the fund has not worked, why the measures in the national strategy have not been realised, why no government decision in these three years has equalised the rights of persons with disabilities, regardless of the place, time and way of obtaining disability. Why are some rights slightly abolished, and why is it that suddenly, in this election year, everything will be realised? I ask you, is the difference in social rights 1:17 currently in favour of people with disabilities from the Homeland War not equating but in some ways reducing whether the funds are secured not for a year but for the next 5 years for the introduction of a personal assistant for all those who need it, not a few at the level of pilot project. Will you return the right to release VAT on imports of cars? Will you allow access to kindergartens, schools, hospitals, sports grounds for all citizens of this country by respecting the principle of equal opportunities? Will the following year when we sign the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities guarantee the level of rights of persons with disabilities not only at the declarative level of the election year by dispersing themselves with pilot projects. With this budget, you don't spill fog, you produce fog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76151	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by distinguished representative Lucia Chikesh. Turn yourself on, turn yourself on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am, dear colleague, I understand your indignation. I understand it's always not enough. I'd fix all of this because it's just not true. All items per item you specified as if nothing were going on in any field. You know it's not like that, and I'm not going to use that word you used for the government to make the government lie. I'd say you used your performance simply to bring out a whole series of lies that really don't have any foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76153	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, it's hard to concentrate on a debate about the state budget when you don't have the illusion that you can change anything. And certainly no proposal from the opposition will be adopted no matter how good it is and how real it is. But the debate on the state budget isn't just about one document. It is a debate on government policy always throughout the mandate and I am protesting it now. That the debate on the budget and economic policy of the Government could be correct, based on indicators, macroeconomic indicators not from the government's sleeves, but from an independent institution and that they are not selective but should be shown as data as a whole so that trends and successes and failures of the government throughout the mandate can be known, and that they compare the successes and failures with possible, possible similar countries in the environment and in the European Union countries and what has been promised. There's nothing we can do. GDP data from 2003 to 2007 should therefore be provided. Industrial production at the beginning and at the end of the day, consumer price index at the beginning and at the end of the day, retail trade, unemployment rate at the beginning and at the end of the term of office, number of registered unemployed at the beginning and at the end of this budget. Number of employees, average exchange rate of EUR and Croatian kuna, average exchange rate of dollars and Croatian kuna. Why? Because with this state reserves and Croatian barata when talking about exports, about reserves, about debt. Imports of goods annually and at the level of mandate, foreign debt in dollars and in EUR, international reserves and the total amount of credit, etc. Did we get that information? We didn't. We didn't. That is why it is possible that in the Croatian Parliament we can talk and correct incorrect allegations regardless of who we quote. When that's the case, then I'll take my grade. It is my opinion that in the economic policy of the HDZ government there has been no conceptual change since 1993 when the Stabilisation Plan was adopted and thus the government in its economic programme, anyone who was in the government's composition aims to protect the acquired positions of the people involved in the privatisation. Every HDZ government has done it. If we think that, that it is, that politics and statistics are in front of people to let some say it in this House then I ask you nicely to look at things this way. For 10 years and more, we have been saying "about 300 thousand unemployed Croatian citizens." For 10 and more years we have been saying "about 300 thousand unemployed Croatian citizens". With this, no government, if it is not its priority, can call itself a socially sensitive government. Because these people who are unemployed don't have time or can respect statistics like this or like that. What else do we have to see about this government except for the unemployment constant? Retired. Well, gentlemen, dear so-called. The new pensioners are replacing the so-called problem. old pensioners in a more drastic form. They lag behind, lag behind the average pension or pay drastically. And in this budget in economic policy, we are satisfied with the government's resolution. Bianko's trust. Education and education. This government declares society of knowledge, excellence, and in the budget in relative terms there is a lagging out for science and education. So what priorities are we talking about? State administration. The condition for entry into the European Union is that the state administration must be more efficient, politically independent, flexible, elastic, reduced, professional and act in accordance with the law or act legally. And even the parliamentary board finds that there is no word in the budget on the reform of the state administration or on the problem of the state administration to join the European Union. The Board of the Croatian Parliament finds it. And the Croatian government says it is oriented to join the European Union. How, then, this discrimination, that gap from the government's declared statement to the real amount in the draft budget? What's it called in the people? Is that something to say? Well, you don't have to. You don't have to say. What about state projects? The infrastructure projects that each country is working to ensure progress, i.e. the competitive capacity of its economy and society as a whole for the European Union market and the world market? We can now argue which government is guilty of, but Croatian railways are not qualified to enter the competition of the European Union. They're not trained. And it's not gonna happen. So far, there's nothing. And the deadlines for joining the European Union would like to be shortened. Gas. And we all know when there were words that the gas would reach Karlovec. There's nothing again. ... Great, great, the citizens are happy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I'm happy. But I'm two years late. ... No way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Europe calls itself the space of freedom, security and justice. This is in the European Union documents. You can protest this, but read the European Union documents. It's a space of freedom, security and justice. Has the Croatian State, or this Government, provided the means for reforming the state administration, which is a condition for entering that European Union? It's not. If we are to join the European Union with pensions lagging behind, I don't know of the declared pensions as at the beginning of the mandate 50% of the average salary is now at 36.37% of the average salary. Is this the preparation of Croatia for the European Union? It's not. I'm not a demagogue. Then call your colleagues who have reached a conclusion and say, in the 2007 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia, the proposals for projections for the next two years have not provided adequate means for the implementation of public administration reform whose objectives are etc. set. Talk to your colleagues. Thank you for your qualifications. It's my feeling, and I'm offering it to you, so you check it out. In Croatia, the division of two Croatians continues with this proposal of the State Budget. One Croatia is formal, satisfied with statistics and position, and the other Croatia is quiet, silent and dissatisfied with its position and has no influence. The latter includes pensioners and educators who are now on strike. So, you should say about again people are ahead of politics, people are ahead of statistics. If we are not responsible and ready for serious reforms without keeping the positions of any party or lobby affecting us, we will not train Croatia to join the European Union as we can and in order to ensure a better life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76155	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Zubovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd have righted Mr. Lek if the gas was not finished. It's open today, an open pipeline from a well in the Adriatic Sea to Karlovac. You said two years ago it was supposed to be. Gas Acro was supposed to start working on the truth pipeline a few years ago. It was only when we replaced the administration you set up, which was last year that the gasification started and within a year there were 497 kilometers of gas pipelines. And today the gas flows through the gas pipeline from the Adriatic Sea. And why is it not made, why has it not been built before, we can ask those who have benefited from signing the gas transport contract through Italy and Slovenia to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76157	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76158	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct a colleague who keeps saying that this government is not investing in the education system. So I'll just give him some facts. The increase in investment in higher education between 2003 and 2007 is around 743 million kuna, or 46.4%. The increase in the higher education budget between 2003 and 2007 is 46.4%, i.e. 743 million kuna. The funds are provided to increase employees' salaries in the 447 million kuna education and science system. Provided funds for necessary employment in primary and secondary education 300 new higher education development jobs and 500 places for scientific recruits in the system of science and higher education. For the following year, funding for 700 new subsidies and housing loans has been provided to young scientists, etc. I don't want to count anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76159	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague and a colleague and a minister wherever he is. We are today discussing in such a chamber atmosphere the most important act of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. And instead of having heard about the government's 2007 policy, which is the government's priorities in 2007, how we will prepare for negotiations with the European Union in 2007, we have received a number of dry weights that we could read from the state budget itself. I'd grade it as a bag of gifts of colorful packages, and when you take the paper off those packages, you actually see what's left. Tenty-eight billion kuna in the budget, which has been increased by about nine billion kuna compared to the year before, who will win, and who will lose, or we can read how this government in its last budget for, in this term, is making priorities, that is how it will provide the target groups with certain funds in the election year. Will it be, for example? satisfied that out of these 9 billion kunas they did not get an increase in teachers and teachers for their salaries in order to reduce the difference, their pay difference compared to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. If the problem of education and the salaries of educators were great, I would illustrate it with the fact that for the first time in almost 100% strike the Međimurje educators who have always abstained from such extreme moves. What about the pensioners? Well, for them, pension growth of only 5% is ensured in the budget. If you include in this the harmonisation of pensions regularly, annually and new pensioners who will retire in 2007, I fear there will be no increase, that it will be a reduction in pensions again. There is no talk about new pensioners who retired after 99, whose average pension is about 1,000 and 500 kuna and 500 kuna less than those who left earlier. The promise to settle this in 2007 outside the budget says the budget is not transparent because these are not one-off fees. If you want to equalize your pension, so-called. old and new pensioners, it must be continued as long as workers go into retirement by law, an existing law on solidarity. Then whether those who are unemployed will be satisfied, who receive compensation from the Employment Service, which has not increased since 2002 and are not planning to increase now. Whether mothers who are in maternity care will be satisfied and will receive only 63 kunas, as calculated by fellow Pecek or families who will receive 34 kuna for child benefit. Every kuna is welcome to families, but it is not something to boast about. There's no funds here to cover your health loss. Our general hospitals are convulsing in debt, and many are facing collapse and blockage of the jury account. Patients will additionally be provided by paying the administrative fee and supplementals of nearly 400 million kuna additional in the budget. There is talk of equating the development of Croatian regions. I'll tell the three of my neighbouring counties how it's done in this budget. The Krapina-Zagorje County will receive from the Regional Development Fund, which would have to be a driver of development of just over 3 million kunas and 9 million kunas for regional water pipelines, which is otherwise the country's commitment. The Varazdin County of the same fund a million and 800 thousand will develop heavily and Međimurje County 2 million 367 thousand kuna, but will receive some small transfer that will go towards our municipalities of 2 million and 450 thousand kuna. If this is for these three counties which are usually at the beginning of wages, on average salaries in Croatia, then we really can't talk about any unification of the development of Croatian regions. What about economic growth when growth is planned only in 2009 is slightly more than 5%, and we had that in 2002 and 2003. Employment, in three years we've hired 16 thousand 887 new employees and we've reduced the unemployment contingent by 14 grand. I would like to say a few sentences about the most sensitive area that will appear to us in negotiations with the European Union, which is agriculture. Statistically demonstrated 14% increase in the Ministry of Agriculture, but let's try to analyze it. A hundred say, new workers mostly through... surveillance and the paying agency. It is good to form, or build infrastructure through which certain programmes will be able to be implemented, especially the paying agency, and then I hope that farmers will know which culture and for which period and what level of incentives they receive, because that agency should actually work. But let's look at the support in agriculture and fishing. They're increasing by 9%, but when you go by the items then for a farm that's a wave of liquid production, 2%. This is people's real drop in these funds, we, despite encouraging both plant and livestock production, had a decline of almost 9% in last year's plant production, and the most sensitive sector in agriculture when we enter the European Union tomorrow, so rural agriculture households by as much as 14%. Investment support in agriculture and fisheries 130 million kuna. A big 44% increase. But respected colleagues and colleagues, these are two to three tycoon villas here in Zagreb, and if that's what we're thinking about developing agriculture and having big investment projects, then it's really sad. Fishing reduces incentives to co-finance the modernisation of the fishing fleet by as much as 48%. It's 18 million kuna. We know how many of our fishermen are actually struggling with foreign competition and that they are actually experiencing defeat that they cannot be dealt with. A major irrigation project that was said in 2004 that it should be at the level of highway construction in Croatia, so far almost nothing. It is now planned in total through Croatia's waters and through the budget of about 90 million kuna, but it is said in the explanation that it is a project by 2020, which will be more seriously implemented in 2008. It's not this government that does it, it's some other government, no matter what political omen. And to say in the end, we often testify that the government is proposing something, the Parliament votes it, and when it is necessary to apply it, then we return to the beginning. And an epilogue about all that. The guarantee card is history because we're ahead of the election. The poor results are mainly due to the former government. It's an alibi for any failure this government doesn't achieve, and soon this government will be ex-government, and HDZ will go to new victories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76161	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. She would correct a colleague who persistently says that this government does not care about pensioners, and as your government has been concerned that it is not in debt, and this government is still paying back debt to pensioners, and in 2007, the budget sets aside an increase in pensions of 6.1%. The government takes care of pensioners and the rise in pensions is not small. 25% compared to 2003, which is more than a total budget expenditure increase of 21%. And the new pensioners won't be left unsettled. A model and a new legal framework for improving the status of new pensioners is being developed. And as for the child's allowance, you know best who abolished maternity leave and maternity benefits, and what this government does is shown in population policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76163	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague who corrected some of the allegations that I thought I'd be looking back at. A colleague says hospitals are squirming with losses and threatening to block them. True, no one has solved other countries in the world the issue of health care so that it does not cramp in problems. However, it should be said that, compared to 2003, health funds increased 50% or 6.8 billion kuna. When it comes to child benefits and maternity benefits, I don't know how to talk about maternity benefits when we know who first took on maternity benefits and who took on the length of maternity leave. And now an increase in birth benefits is projected by 11.6 or 165 million and an increase in child benefits by 23.6% or 320 million. Then it is also said in agriculture that there is no increase when it comes to fees, and the truth is that investment in agriculture, a twist that is at 2 and a half billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76165	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76166	Mr. Vice President, in my debate, I will try to keep my top priority at what I thought was necessary to resolve the draft budget for 2007. They're retired, and I want to give them something more elaborate. The HDZ has been explaining for 3 years how it has been leading a policy positive towards the problem of pensioners and must be recognised by the personal return of debt is a solution given by the HDZ government and adopted by the HDZ government. Therefore, individual debt repayment. Individually. But with that attitude and what's most important, a thousand other problems in the pension system have been opened in the last three years. For this responsibility is borne by the HDZ majority. For problems in the pension system. What's the first problem? The first problem was because the misleading public wanted to say nothing before was returned. So nothing forgot to signify the rise in pensions in the term of the coalition government, which even jumped at the expense of debt returns. Not individually, but for all the pensioners. It is also forgotten that 100 kuna plus 6% is retired for centuries. Which means, old pensioners in their income have forever been part of pensions relating to debt returns. And of course, what happens? There's a difference between new and old pensioners. Because new pensioners don't even have a jump-back amount or 100 kuna plus 6% and there's a difference between old and new pensioners. It's a piece of information that's been so clear to everyone, at least for the last two years. But the government doesn't want to recognize the problem, she doesn't want to solve the problem. And we want to point out that the problem of new pensioners will remain forever, forever. And we have to deal with it permanently not once because it's not debts. No, it's obligations because old pensioners have it in their pensions forever, they have to get new pensioners. And that's the government's priority and obligation to try and solve it. And that's why part of us thinks we're enormously high in the 108 billion budget. In all, in the last four years, 28 billion more, and we haven't solved those already retired. We're not worried about the fact that we're falling apart from the average wage, and that's why we have a real pension drop. So the statistics, the records, we want to point out that the pension system is problematic, we want to say that the pensioners need to be dealt with, but there is no solution to the basic question of the pension rate for the new pensioners. It's not even in the 2007 Budget. The story of getting out of budget is absurd because the solution should be permanent, forever. It's not a one-time solution like repaying a debt. It's not. But it's not the only problem with the pension system. We have another problem with the pension system. Today's worker will not get a pension based on the rules on generation solidarity. He's saving for his pension. How much does that save? 5% of your salary. Did anyone get into the account that his pension would be from that personal savings? Has anyone calculated that? Worse than the new pensioners. Worse. Therefore, whether the government has been obliged this last 3 years to start a second pension reform process, which means increasing the share of the savings worker. Increase the share of contributions to the new pension system. Yeah, she should've, and why didn't she? And of course, the problem of the transition cost. And what can we conclude with the last year of the HDZ mandate? The peace, the pension system, the problem of the pensioners is not the problem of this government, and that is what we cannot possibly agree on. And you can't have a failure like this, and you don't like to justify it just by returning personally to the pensioners. No, he can't, these failures, he can't have a problem like this that stays at a high level of spending, will permanently remain a pension problem, and it's left for some other time. And justice is only by paying off a personal debt. It's a huge failure by the HDZ government. And if I didn't just stay on the pensioners even though I think it's the hardest question that we've ever had in four years, I guess we won't even be able to open up in the Croatian Parliament next year. I'd like a few words on shipbuilding. You know, it's sad when someone is justice to the former government, the former government. In the shipbuilding, the former government found a wreck, no ships, no contracts, no strikes on workers, no payouts. And we're not gonna talk about it. No, I don't. We're talking about the former coalition government spent 8 billion on recovery. 8 billion and filled out the book of orders. And I'd say with clear messages, we'd like to invest in shipbuilding. What do we have today, three years after our government? What do we have in our last year of office? We don't see money for the necessary moves in restructuring and modernisation. However, we are aware that the paid studies to foreign experts will not be conducted in 2007. It won't be because they're negative messages. Because these are messages that no one will send in the election year. Which means another difficult year. Another year of uncertainty for shipbuilding, for shipbuilding workers and, of course, all co-operatives and the same shipbuilding industry. So we don't have a clear message that shipbuilding will continue to remain the branch with the greatest potential in exports, excluding tourism. A few words perhaps about gas as energy in the Republic of Croatia. Yes, on two of my questions in these three years, the Prime Minister admitted that they had not changed the incompetent administration in time and that they were responsible for the fact that in 2004, the gas did not take place from the Croatian sub-sea, from the Adriatic Sea to Croatia and provided stable sources of energy. However, if it hadn't been for the Russian crisis at the beginning of this year, we wouldn't have witnessed today's opening that the prime minister did today. Yeah, those are Eva Sanader's answers from this pay phone. Those are his answers to my questions. And you know about successful and unsuccessful directors. On the first day of your term, you could have replaced him if you thought he was a failure. And you did this very successfully with Drempetić who did not want to implement your policy of stopping the modernisation of the development of Croatian... You replaced him the same day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the first month of your term. You could do that with the man who ran the... And why didn't you? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, he was listening to your idea, not to invest in gas, not to build a gas pipeline. And only when you saw that the gas was running out of Europe, that the whole of Europe was talking about gas was then you started the process of changing. And there's something else. We are also talking about oil gas that is more completely exported abroad to Croatia with strange companies. And the Croatian industry has no gas. And that industry, the exporting petrochemical, which could reach shipbuilding in exports. But there is no Croatian gas for her. There isn't. Unfortunately, the National Committee has not done its job in the INA. And that is the destabilising of the energy source in Croatia, and I would say making business difficult for Croatian exporters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76168	And that's why the budget looks so bad to us then.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76169	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It was really interesting to listen to this public statement from my colleague Linic and I have to correct him, he said a lot of incorrect allegations, so I'm going to correct some. Namely, he said that this government said that gas and gasification should not be invested. It's simply incorrect. It's simply incorrect. Because she's proved it over the past year when she's done it pretty fast, not because of the Russian crisis. Because we have to use our resources. And your interest was to use someone else to transport that same gas and make a living on it. It was your interest and your policy. Our policy has resulted in a team that today's pipeline is open. You're talking about a shipyard. In your contracts that you signed, how much debt is created on the ship based on those same contracts? Did you do that analysis? And let me remind you of your investment in the shipyards, to remind you of Victor Lance. Maybe it's the best example, the best illustration of your policy towards it. And there are a lot of similar examples, but if we don't really come back...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76172	Let's turn to the future and budget for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76173	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76174	Well, articles 109 and 115 were injured. Rules of Procedure, if we're talking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76175	Yes, it is. Articles 109 and 114 have been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76176	209.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76177	Here, let me hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76178	Because if we're talking shipbuilding, then it's a pure replica, so I'm going to use myself, abuse this... Allow me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Waiting for your punishment...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76179	You can't expect punishment...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76180	That thanks to the investments in the Victoria Lenac shipyard...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76181	When I'm gonna interrupt you now because you can't get the word...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76182	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76183	Calm down, calm down your passions. You can't get the word...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76184	The shipbuilding workers thanks to these funds...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76185	I take your word! 500 jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76188	They're lying. What's your problem here?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76189	Dear Representative Linic! Where does it go off? Here's your guest, Linic. I'll take your word for it and give you a heads-up. [[Intruder: We're still gonna get beaten up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76190	500 workers in Lance...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76191	I don't know what... Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76192	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76193	What am I supposed to do now? Call the guards to sit you down. Please sit down. I've taken your word for it. You've been warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76194	... 500 workers and 3 years... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76195	Keep it down. Keep it down. ... Here, let's go calm down a little passion. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Linic earned a warning. Let's move on. The word has a distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It was in the previous debate on shifts, so I'm going to start my discussion on today's budget in some way, continuing to discuss my colleague Vesna Škulić when she asked about the Professional Rehabilitation Fund, the proposal for a budget of 37 million kuna provided for in 2007 and when she presented the exact information that of all those money that were for this year, and that is 37 million is also not employed by any person with disabilities, but it is worth reminding us all here that this government had replaced the then-born Director for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and please appoint a new director you know when? At the 9th month of this year. For two and a half years, the Fund has not actually worked for two and a half years through all the budgets so far, millions of people planned to employ disability without anyone saying at the end of each year where they went to kill the neutral millions. This 2007 budget is electoral, exactly as it was expected, programmed according to certain categories and in the way in which the ruling party, it is probably the right of it to actually get votes, so it has been kept talking for a month about how it has taken care of births, how it takes care of families, children, defenders, pensioners, etc., etc. But no matter what some have already said, one more time needs to be repeated. Birth benefits are increased by 63 kuna, children's allowance for 34 kuna, please it's part of the declared new national population policy through which 500 kuna is provided for each third and fourth children, and it does not want to be said that in Croatia the problem is the second child. How can parents and what are the reliefs and privileges of deciding on another child? That's the problem, not to mention a growing number of those families that don't decide on their first child. About that in the new national policy, but neither in this state budget, of course, has a single word. When talking about increased resources for defenders, please do well to say that these funds are increased exactly as are expected by new users, for example. Since the beginning of this government, the number of users of defence disability pensions has increased by about 10 thousand, and gentlemen are expected to increase further because a total of 32,000 requests for recognition of disability status have been made. Speaking of retirement leaves. It is true, someone also said that some 6% is expected to increase on the total mass, but then the other part is silenced to say that this is foreseen for regular six-month alignment with the cost of living as well as for pensions of those who will only retire next year. On the issue of what we all call them new pensioners, of course there's no word in this state budget because it doesn't seem to be a problem for this government. And when we talk about pensioner standards, then we should remind you that at the end of 2003, the average pension rate in the average salary in Croatia was 45%, and that this government has succeeded this year, imagine reducing it to below 40%, which means about 39.7%, and that's your pension increase. What this government was finally not talking about and not talking about because the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Care said that some 600 million kunas spoken of a few months ago would be too much of a coup and would not have endured the state budget. It's about that thing, the very social one, the biggest social one. counterparts and colleagues in Croatia are poor according to all indicators of about 730 thousand citizens. Social aid of 400 kuna, for which this government has not found the means to increase the income of 250 thousand citizens, 94% of them are the only income of 400 kuna. 20% older than 60 years, no pension benefits, 70,000 pensioners each month receive less than 500 kuna. My colleagues and colleagues after the adoption you will certainly adopt this budget, all these figures will remain the same because for these needs this government did not find fit to see if something could in any way increase. When we talk about the employment problem, how many unemployed, of course, are the last indicator that can be seen at the Croatian Employment Service, says that at the end of the 10th month the unemployed were 289 thousand 881 which is an increase of course compared to 2 months ago because they finished seasonal jobs and there is a larger inflow. But this is how I want to warn you of two numbers. In 2003, the total employees in Croatia were one million and 430 thousand. From the 9th month of this year, this figure is a million 446 thousand 300. In other words, it means that in these three years of your rule you have even managed to employ about 16 thousand 300 people, of which you have employed a gro in the state administration, and when you look at the items in the budget relating to employment programmes, I have to say this way, the Development and Employment Fund has remained in these items without 150 million kuna. I've been looking for a budget to think, let's come up with an answer, there are other programs that encourage new employment. I have to say, I haven't been able to add up any of those 150 million kunas. And now I wonder why this amount has been reduced by this amount in the Fund for Development and Employment. Only in the Croatian Employment Service have you added 5 million kuna due to the new national strategy on Roma employment. This way, at this rate of your employment, I'm afraid we'll get into a situation six months ago to talk about budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76197	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76198	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So listening to all this and the debates on the right would say tomorrow the flood of the world will go away and Croatia will disappear, and fortunately not at all. It has also been said that for this government, new pensioners are not the problem, which is not true. Clearly, both the prime minister and the responsible have been told that an appropriate solution will be found this year by the end of the year. He also wants to reduce all this policy on defenders that really doesn't stand. If we just go on total defence income, the increase is 71% of the attorney's total rights in cash compared to 2003, 71% of the increase. So, pensions alone have increased by a billion 854 thousand and it's not true that the number of defenders is increasing but not the number of defendants, the user of pensions. Therefore, it wants to get to the wrong conclusion by distorting the data here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76199	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76200	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct my colleague as far as these extras are concerned. It's like we forgot about population policy. For extras, an increase of 23.6% for child allowance is increased, the increase in maternity benefits is 11.6%. As regards child allowance, three income classes are introduced on the basis of which to determine the monthly amount of allowances per child and, in accordance with the proposed income per household member, the minimum amount of allowances would be around 200 kuna and the highest of about 300 kuna. After 12 years, the first time an increase in aid for the equipment of a newborn child, which instead of a thousand 360 kuna, is now 70% of the budget base, so 2 thousand and 300 kuna. Free textbooks for children of primary school and first grade high school are provided. And as for the defenders, we remember the last government very well when she abolished the rights of defenders and we know how they treated them, and in 2003 there were 3 million 220 thousand kunas for defenders and the proposal was 2007. Five million and 500 thousand kuna. Five billion, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76201	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76202	Dear Mr. Minister, Vice President of the Parliament and other colleagues! Well, I would actually agree with one finding that's been said for a little while that it's hard to find the right motivation to discuss the budget when it's known in advance that none of it will be heard, let alone that something will be appreciated. It is simply that we are left to evaluate not only certain items but also to evaluate this government's policy by reading what is reflected in the figures that have been presented to us in the draft budget for next year. I regret to conclude that this budget shows that there is no place in it among the priorities, nor when it comes to young citizens of this country, nor when it comes to the old citizens of this country, nor about the unemployed, nor is there a concern here for this budget development, even regional development, the development of a poorer part of Croatia for intervention and for the help of the state, because it is obvious that without this help I cannot in any way... to extract the system from the poverty and misery in which these parts have been submerged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's just a few illustrations of what I'm talking about. Let's take the young and the children. Now we have seen an interesting acrobatic being performed in an argument that colleague Caparin performed faithfully in fact reading the data rather than respecting something else. Namely, an allowance for the children. True, this year we plan to spend, let's let go of classes, etc., a billion and 700 million kuna. And Mrs. Caparin doesn't say that a billion and 700 million kuna was spent on children's allowances three and a half years ago, and in 2001, as much as 2 billion and 400 million kuna. If we don't have that relationship against the data, then we can hardly make valid conclusions. So nothing for a child's allowance in that big population policy is given anything more than any lip. You have the implementation of the National Youth Action Programme. They brought, debated, talked, swore how important they were to us last year, brought as much as a hundred and one measure, a hundred and ten measures, distributed them, etc. You know what's in place, how much is the implementation of the National Youth Programme? Thirty-nine thousand kuna. Unbelievable, I thought it was a printing mistake. Well, there's no money, there's no money. Or, again, how can you spell with numbers. Support for programmes aimed at children and young people. In 2005, I read from the budget, with 15 million 733, 2006. 9 million 230 and for next year a spectacular increase from 23% to 11 570. And it's not said that 11 570 is less than it was two years ago when it comes to these aids, etc. when it comes to this population of children. What's going on with the old ones? An increase of 243 million and 200 thousand kunas, spectacularly, huge, huge money. However, Minister Shuker you well know that it is only enough to continue the continuity of the pension drop. This is enough for them to continue to fall as stable as they have so far since these millions and 243 million guarantee that pensions will lag behind pay. They say they will fall from the growth of gross social product. They guarantee that they will fall compared to expected inflation and that 3 and a half percent, so when new pensioners come in, that's definitely what pensioners will get less next year. And it turns out to be a big increase. Second question when it comes to old people, so talk a lot about it these days. Well, because now's the time. So 336 thousand new pensioners will be left for another year. Says Vice President Polancec the other day, and says "Somewhere in the tenth month of next year, there might be something that might be done there." Come on, please. For a complete solution we found a model, we offered it in this House. The government can accept it. Problem of any working groups please. What groups, what funds, what property, what coppers! It is necessary to ensure stable resolution of the problem both of them and those who will come in years until they begin living that second, third pillar and so on. That's the problem we have to solve. This government wants us to do it behind it, anyway. Let's get right to it. We have to do it, we have to do it. How about I don't say no one mentions today what's with the security cards, the contracts? Remember, we'll release the pensioners from the television subscription. Who mentions that more? We're bringing pensions to 50% of the average salary. So when we said, "Don't be serious." In order for that to happen, you would have to spend 8 or 9 billion more now, and it's known that it's not, it's not a real story. It's not serious. But it's not, it's not a problem that it's not serious, it's a problem that, you know, it's what's being said, what's being promised, what's being signed, and what's being done by forgiving the stupidest of us, our citizens who think they're going to be able to cover something like that. You promised to change the Swiss formula. So we changed and pulled. So when it is said, “Give the people some thought. I wish you'd corrected it. There's a way. Nothing happened in that sense. And out of 44% of the average salary pensions are down to 39% and it's going to fall, it's going to keep falling. Next, employment. Please, if the papers don't write about it, if the unions don't shut up, it doesn't mean that the problem isn't present. 800 million kunas went, demanding measures, demanding policies, active employment measures in 2003. 800 million. And now 350 million are planned. So what we have so spectacularly reduced unemployment and how suddenly this problem has become minor for a country where 40% of the active population works. And Europe is 60, and it tends to be over 70 if it wants to be competitive with Lisbon compared to America and so on. And we are content to say, “16 thousand people in three years have increased the number of jobs.” So let the election come, so we mustn't, uh, and I said, I'm getting close to the end, undeveloped. Imagine Sisak-Moslavina County in 2005 got 3 million 996 kuna and now 770 thousand kuna less. It developed, Kostanica developed, Costa Rica, where HDZ Mayor was in 2005 million 874, 2006. 591 thousand and 2007 180 thousand kuna. So what on earth is it? So what's this about? Or I don't really understand it. What's motive instead, so you can't lift the Court, Costa Rica, Mayur, Kukuruzari, I'm talking about what my close environment is. It cannot be raised in a centralised system unless the state finds it necessary to do so at all and with such ridiculous amounts it goes with support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76203	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I really don't know what kind of math that is, but I'm sure it's not true. He says, "This amount was paid before 2004." So if, during the coalition government, 15 thousand and 500 children were born. 15 grand and 500. That's more than one parish. If the foundation was 40% of the budget base, then math can be that the same number, that the same funding was spent, and this table clearly shows that it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76205	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76206	Well, I'd do the same to correct a colleague if the same funds were spent last year, over the years now. I mean, if we're talking numbers and facts then that's really not true. See, child's allowance, maternity benefits in 2003 is two and a half billion kuna. If that's what you're going to do in 2007, it's three and a half billion kuna. So the separation for population policy if we're going to be 730 million kuna globally in 2007 more than in 2006. Or even for a billion kuna more compared to 2003 And the numbers speak for themselves. [[Aggression: Correction of incorrect]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76207	Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vidovic, I really appreciate the knowledge of social policy, personally as much as you know it. But you will allow that when you have implemented that policy, you have not proved yourself successful. And tonight your claim that the government has shown real art, this expression I like terribly, to spell numbers in bringing out programs for young people, for old and powerless, for pensioners. I'd just say that this is exactly your tonight's display of real magic with numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76209	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Šolić [[Intruder: Correction of the incorrect quote I said.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76210	Thank you very much. Here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to fix Mr. Vidovic once more when he said that this government didn't give anything more than the Government in 2003 for children. Mr. Vidovic, as if you had a 2003 Budget, you read all these items that you said today in your debate. I will remind you once again that this government and the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity when it was debated here is a population policy and here it is clearly embedded in this budget proposal for 2007 that, compared to 2003, a billion kuna is more proposed in the 2007 Budget. And you can't deal with some facts that absolutely don't stand in 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76211	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Roksandić. You can't have, this is a correction to an incorrect quote. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76212	At the end of his debate, counterpart Vidovic mentioned Sisak-Moslavina County and ongoing assistance within the general state at the level of the Ministry of Finance, so I don't know we read the same thing. I see that Sisak-Moslavina County in the 2007 plan has got to get 3 million 192 thousand 981 not to list all these cities and municipalities that you mentioned because I have to remind you that they do not get anything less. In the summer of 2003, you said that, in the summer of those same municipalities were blocked, people couldn't get paid, people didn't have basic material costs, because they were taken to pay income taxes. Now it pays the state instead of these units and they get as much as it is according to the tax return calculation. That's what's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76213	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government. At least here you could understand how much mathematics is, I always thought an exact science, but the budget is best seen that mathematics is not so exact. Because things can be interpreted very differently. However, in any case, the budget is more than 8.8 billion kuna. The budget says it is neither developed nor social, it is this time called the budget for a more even development of Croatia. Very handsome, handsome slogan. However, as the election year is concerned, this government has made particular efforts to make sure that some known mayors like the larger voter mass, and under the name of decentralisation, it has decided to redistribute funds as soon as most municipalities and cities have been favored, while the City of Zagreb has been greatly cut off. He's not developed, he's not social. The budget is even for development because of the so-called financial decentralisations. However, it is a redistribution, but not decentralisation, because decentralisation would be if the assets of the local self-government unit were increased at the expense of the reduction of central government funds. The units of local self-government are funded here, increasing at the expense of 34 cities in Croatia, or mostly at the expense of the City of Zagreb. Regardless of what I think about the way I manage the resources and policies of the City of Zagreb as a representative in the City of Zagreb Assembly, it is not in principle right not to mention the possibility of changing tax laws. HNS proposed last year at the 12th month in its proposal of the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units a much more balanced distribution of total incomes, and otherwise although the proposals are quite similar our proposal went towards the fact that income tax, the share of municipalities, or the city in taxes, goes 50%, that the counties go 18.6%, that the City of Zagreb goes 68.6% and that the share of positions for aid and balancing for decentralised functions is 21%. The Fund, it is unacceptable that the Compensation Fund, which serves as aid to weaker municipalities, areas of special concern, mountain-mounted areas, etc. to be alimentated from the tax of units of local self-government without alimony from the central state. It would be fairer if, in this case, when a profit tax is left to the state that this Alignment Fund is also alimony from the then profit tax. Of course, however, legislative regulation needs to be amended for that. The reduction of that decentralised allocation, for example, from 21% to 15% if we cut that funding, which is not expected in this pre-election year, would leave at least 6% more of the cities that are absolutely lost, which in particular would increase the income tax from 67% to 73% in Zagreb, and would reduce the huge financial shock that took place for the City of Zagreb. Also for maintaining property sales taxes to self-government and regional self-government units, especially in the City of Zagreb, would significantly mitigate the impact on the local budget. With our projections, according to our proposal of the HNS last year, the city of Zagreb lost not 700 million but only 300 million in this way. The basic disadvantages that the principle of nature would say for this budget is not to be collected, that taxes here are not collected from production but mainly from trade. This is a budget of consumption, it's not a budget of production, so there's no economic growth, there's no production, there's no new creative jobs, it's mostly services and trade. There is also no word in the budget on equalising pensions of old and new pensioners, although it is a vast population completely unjustly denied for its hard-earned money over 40 years of work. And so it could increase when there's no economic increase. It's just an example of retirement and early retirement, the number of people who peed in '99. the years of retirement, so today we have such people 536 thousand, their average pension was at that time, is currently 2 thousand 40 kuna. Retired pensioners, retired in '99. and in 2005 they get an average of 1,000 kuna pensions today. And the same pensioners who retired in 2005 receive only a thousand and twenty kuna. Gentlemen, this is a very, very sensitive subject and I think that at least in this election year you had to find a way to talk about it, not just for next year for 10 months. I don't think that's right for our citizens at the very least. I would also like to comment a little on the deficit reduction that is said to have been reduced to 3% and with a tendency to 2.8. This is very questionable because the introduction of Pension Insurance Funds, health care, of the Fund's employment of things is about to lead to the fact that we've taken over the debts. So at the hospital, we took over the debts of a billion-and-a-half kuna suppliers. As far as drugs are concerned, we owe a billion kunas to drug suppliers, paying for 240 days. Which together is billions and a half and a billion together makes two and a half billion, at least for now in this mathematics. As far as pensions are concerned, this year the first debt tranche for old pensioners of billions and 200 and by the end of this year should be paid another billion and 200. That's what we settle for selling Pliva. My question is, what are we going to settle for next year? What are we going to sell so that we can settle that debt of a new 2.5 billion to cover the debts of old pensioners? As far as shipbuilding is concerned, I think 500 million dollars so-called. guarantee or 3 billion kuna. As far as shipbuilding is concerned, it's a clean and direct deficit because it's not a loan or a guarantee but it's a non-refundable aid because the shipbuilding has never returned anything so far, so it won't return now. All that comes from capital revenues is a deficit. And when we just add this up, and we add it to the fact that the builders are not allowed to put their situation in place and send it to the collection by the manner known from the period of preparation of the last budget, and that's what most road builders or highways are witnessing, then we can actually talk about the deficit of 6%. So it's not about reducing the deficits, it's just about darkening the way the deficits are displayed and it's this relative science called mathematics. And finally maybe a few more words that I have to admit to me is not clear. If, in the following year, the central budget of profit tax funds, from which funds will be recovered, will be paid back in advance for income tax in 2006? Because in these budgets here, income tax only funds are created for the Alignment Fund. From which, these are very dedicated means. From what means will tax be made, a return on 2006 advances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76215	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, here is a colleague who says: "There is a very severe city in Zagreb". Well, the City of Zagreb isn't cut off at all. The city of Zagreb for 10 years or more, 15, received funds that do not belong to it at all, taxes on profits and be very happy that there is no possibility that all those who have lost those funds are suing him and demanding a return in 10, 15 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76217	I want to give you a warning in advance or what? ... Let's hear it from the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76218	... 209th and 214th because this wasn't my quote. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76219	Article 214 has not been injured. ... But since I'm a gentleman, there's no warning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague said that this budget actually invests in consumption, not in economy and economic development, and not in production, you said, but in consumption. So to correct you, here's just a few details. In 2007, it is an incentive for small and medium-sized enterprises, and I hope you consider it a production. It will be almost tripled. When we talk about agriculture, fishing and rural development, then we should say that the system of support for farmers, fishermen, Croatian village consisting of promotions of production, income support, capital investment and rural development measures will be set aside 2 billion and 459 million kuna, which is 10% higher than 2006 and 47.8% higher compared to your year 2003. 47.8% of yours, you were in the government, the HNS was in the government I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76221	Thank you. Let's move on. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Although the draft budget is large, my debate on it will be relatively brief. The finance minister and colleagues from the ruling majority say the budget is socially sensitive, transparent, encouraging and developmental. However, it is difficult to agree with this if you cannot read these social sensitivity, transparency, incentive and development from budget items that are mostly under a common cap from which the government will then share according to who knows what criteria, who knows what dynamics and who knows what arches. Whether this will be according to the pre-election needs of HDZ or to the real needs of users, the answer is imposed itself. In this proposal for next year, I managed to find only 11 activities and projects from Primorje-goranska and 7 from Istria County that can be located in the budget. I remind you that it is exclusively about earlier commitments, so new investments and development projects have nothing to do with it. A whole piece of cake from this budget for these two counties can be reduced to some 400 million kuna, which is less than half a percent of the total budget mass. Where does regional development and decentralisation of the state appear? A whole series of projects remained uncovered. I will only mention the Rijeka airport and the Rijeka bypass, which is the connection of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway and the Rupa-Rijeka-Yellow Lokva highway. In contrast, about six billion kunas were reduced to 20 budget items from which no one knows how much they belong. It is about decentralised functions, regional development, shipbuilding and shipbuilding, transport, tourism, education, health care and social care. I want to take a special look at the head of sports at the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports. For the purposes of the public needs programme in sport, i.e. the Croatian Olympic Committee envisions around 72 million kuna, which is 3 million kuna less than in 2005. For this year, the budget was based on the amount of original budgets for sport, and the amount of money from gambling was shown to be at the level of 30 million kuna for 7 years. But since I said something about this and during last year's budget debate, even in the budget's reasoning, it doesn't even say how much of the budget is really allocated for sport. If we remember that, for this year, the same amount that has been planned for half a year has been reduced by nearly 10 million, it is realistic to expect that similar events will happen this year. As the proposal is nearly 10 billion more than this year's budget, it is clear that investment in sport has been drastically reduced again. Thus, even the new Sport Act cannot help us to improve our situation. I don't know further, why projects to rebuild and build sports facilities, prevent violence in sports schools, encourage sports in kindergartens and dormitories, sports programmes to prevent addiction and standards for the construction of sports facilities are abandoned. For the following incentives, so-called. Incentive programmes are provided only symbolic amounts. Why do I say so?? Well simply because with 200,000 kunas for gender equality in sport, with 200 grand for the development of sports on islands, with 400 thousand kuna for sports at universities and universities it is really not possible to do absolutely anything. Maybe a couple sets of T-shirts. I wonder why these programs are even included in the budget when they're simply skipped this year, and these amounts really won't and can't be done next year. At the Ministry of Health and Social Care, I will only remind myself of the anti-HIV infection programmes, i.e. against AIDS where the funds at the level of 4 million kuna are reduced compared to this year by around 47%. Under these programmes, education projects on HIV and AIDS in secondary schools, testing approaches and HIV and AIDS consultations have been abandoned, psychosocial assistance for HIV and AIDS patients, and a reduction of risk management in the risk population. I ask the question why? Probably like the previous questions, I won't get an answer. I didn't talk here on purpose, and I'm not going to talk about the details of certain items, the percentages of the increase or the decreases from the transport of the economy, local communities and other areas because we've heard a lot about it and we'll probably hear more about it. But despite the fact that no amendment will likely be accepted as well as in the current practice of budgeting, my colleagues and I have submitted a number of amendments to try to correct the situation of certain items relating to the Primorje-Gorski and Istrian County in the areas of transport, education, health and environmental. But we will discuss them more when we discuss the amendments. But as I have already said, given that, according to current practice, the amendment is unlikely to be accepted, neither will I be able to support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76223	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We're already used to it from all these years that usually when it's a budget to say that it's developed and social. However, a step further went this year, so the budget for next year also received a new epithet, and it is said to be an investment in Croatia's future. Of course it is nice to think and dream about the future but it is not possible to think about the future and to ignore the current state in which Croatia is located. In this case, planning for the future will be absolutely unrealistic, and the current situation that the growth rate of the economy is below 5%, the planned growth of the gross social product is 4.6%, while inflation is projected to be somewhere between 3 and 3.5%. So when GDP inflation is taken away, we come to the conclusion that we don't actually have the growth of gross social product. Furthermore, the facts suggest that external debt is growing, can't be stopped by administrative measures because consumption is higher than production. There has been no change in the structure of the economy, so neither will there be any change in the structure of the income. On the basis of these facts, the 2007 budget and investment in the future should also be planned. Here's an example to the claim that the government has forgotten these facts when planning the budget. The 2007 budget reduces unemployment benefits because the government is optimistically expecting a smaller number of non-employees' cash benefits from this year. so 74.9 million kunas are planned for unemployment benefits in the budget for the following year. The funds for preparing the unemployed for employment and self-employment are also reduced. I do not understand on the basis of which indicators the Government assumes a more significant reduction in unemployment in the following year when significant shifts have not been made in these 3 years of government work. It is clear to all of us that unemployment can be reduced primarily by the strong launch of the economy, and I, in this Budget Proposal, which is ahead of us, do not see any projects that should give new momentum to the economy. When we talk about unemployment, there's another piece of information that says in itself how this budget was planned. So the funds allocated to the material legal protection of the unemployed in 2007 were reduced by 7% compared to 2006 and then in the projection for the next period they grew again. In 2008 by 12.6%, and in 2009 by 2.5% compared to 2008. So, the government forecasts a reduction in unemployment right in 2007 and will also need less funds for the need for material legal protection of the unemployed. Then unemployment will start growing again. We have to ask ourselves what will happen in 2007 which will bring us such positive movements when unemployment, that pain of Croatian society, is at stake. As if this government had found a magic formula that would unfortunately last only one summer, or one year. It is clear to all of us that this magic formula is called parliamentary elections, so citizens need to get pink glasses to look through them into the future and forget about the reality that surrounds us. If this budget is in service of the upcoming parliamentary elections, it also says that the government decided to increase spending in the coming year to match as wide a layer of citizens as possible. The expenditure for 2007 has increased from the current period by 8.8% and in the following years, meaning in 2008 and 2009, the growth of budget expenditures should again slow to some 6.5%. It is not disputed that the government has decided to increase spending in order to attract voters is already being disputed about what is being spent on. Dispute is that it is not spent on a health system that is mildly said in a very difficult state. He is burdened with financial dues, it is disputed that he is not investing in the pension system to address the problem of new pensioners who are increasingly lagging behind the so-called so-called pension system. The old pensioners. Dispute is that you don't spend on salary increases. Although almost all budget issues for the various social incomes in 2007 have increased by several percentages, citizens will only feel a real increase in national population policy measures. Despite the announcements that they will seriously move towards curbing poverty, the budget item for social purposes remained the same if we exclude regular increases due to a greater number of expected users. Obviously, because of large investments in the population policy for social giving, there is not enough money left, and I would like to remind you that the World Bank analyses have made it clear that on one hand the allocations for social benefits in Croatia are too high, and that the amounts of social assistance to the poor are too low, so to those whose assistance is really and most needy is unacceptably low. According to the World Bank, Croatia stands out 4.1% of GDP for total social benefits, which should be reduced to 3.5%, while at the same time, it is only 0.26% of GDP for social assistance, while the average of the European Union countries is seven times higher. As a result, it was announced that 100 kuna would increase the base for social contributions, which has been 400 kuna since 2000. The base is fixed and does not depend on an increase in the cost of life. The absolute poverty line is considered $4.3 per person per day, and our social assistance barely covers 2.2 dollars a day. In addition, on the basis of this, all other rights are calculated, and with a rise in the base, all the receivings of the poorest and socially sensitive groups could finally begin to fall by 18% of the citizens at risk of poverty. Non-increase of the basis for social giving, except for the poor, also affects persons with disabilities. For them, and even in such a wasteful budget, there is obviously no money. In 2007, the government focused on a minimal increase in material rights that would not significantly affect the family budget, which in the overall budget mass is also a significant issue. That's how it's gonna work, for example. The minimum maternity allowance will be increased by 63 kuna, which is enough for barely half a children's diaper package, and the monthly child's allowance will increase by 34 kuna, and the country will actually cost about half a billion kuna. I repeat once again what I just said if the government decided to increase spending in the election year, let it be, but it is important what is being spent on, and I am not sure that the criteria are well chosen at least when it comes to the standard of citizens, and the basic task of each government is to actually provide citizens with a decent standard for normal life. Ten minutes is too short a time for a person to look a little bit more closely at the items of the budget, but I still have to look back at something that actually came into my eyes, on the pages of the Ministry of Health and Social Care a new item that we didn't have before, and that's compensation for the judgments. In itself, it would be nothing unusual, but it falls into the eyes that in 2007 it plans to spend a million 673 thousand kuna in court judgments, and then in the 2008 projection, that item increases by as much as 698%, or to reach 11 million 673 thousand kuna, in order to increase the figure in 2009 and reach 14 million 347 thousand and 811 kuna. What makes such a drastic increase in the funds that are planned to be spent on compensation for judgments? Does this mean that the government has, in this way, indirectly admitted that our health system is in poor shape, and that is why in the next period, they expect a significantly greater number of complaints from citizens who are not satisfied with the services provided or who have suffered significant damage to their health because of the poor equipment of our health institutions? This is actually the best confirmation of my claim that I made at the beginning of my exposition of consumption yes, but if the government has already decided on it, the key question is what is being spent on? And only at the end when I am already talking about the Ministry of Health and Social Care cannot I not touch my Split-Dalmatia County, which we have highlighted as a county which is in an uninvited position when it comes to the availability and organisation of the provision of health services because for the whole area we have only one clinical hospital and we no longer have a hospital institution on the move from Split to Dubrovnik and therefore I believe that Split Hospital should invest as much as possible in order to ensure that its equipment and equipment is as good as possible, because in the current conditions only in this county can improve the level and quality of health care provision and therefore cannot accept the reduction of planned funds in 2007 by 55%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76225	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76226	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The budget I have in my hand can't be called shopping. So what did colleagues and colleagues decide with this budget to buy our government and our prime minister? They decided to buy some social peace and a new mandate. My colleagues and colleagues, this is a perfectly legitimate and normal wish and there is nothing controversial about it, but I have a question if this scenario really does and realizes what it will mean for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? I'm afraid not a lot of good-taught experience these past three years. This could mean that we will hear another mandate about our inability, ineffectiveness and inability to solve the problem is the guilty coalition government of Ivica Racan, and when we do. It's very kind of you to support me. Thank you. When you get away with it, you will, of course, give it to all the bells, we will look forward to those small successes, but looking at the state we are in, and in the paper today, you could see that 11% of its citizens live below the poverty threshold in this country, that we have 20 percent of the people of older age who have no income, that there are a large number of those who live with only four hundred kunas, then we can't talk about the launch of Croatia, the good standard and the good life in this country. My colleagues and colleagues, some live more than well. But they're not even retired. Some, though, are retired generals, but the vast majority are not retired, they are not workers, they are not young and neither are women. These are the lucky ones who in conversion and privatisation were not smart and capable but similar at the right time in the right place. And now we bear the consequences of all this. The Slavonia from which the victim came was in war crimes but also in conversion and privatisation. And it is far behind the more developed parts of Croatia. And with this budget, unfortunately, that's not going to change. They say Croatia is in motion. But then I wonder, as the education trade unions ask, can it be said that Croatia is launched if wages bring about purchasing power? And something really doesn't make sense. And we know what. No development, no economic growth, no employment and new jobs. And this is the consumer budget. The prime minister and government decided to play Santa Claus thanks to Pliva, INA, THT. And that's nice. I'm just wondering what's gonna happen when the days of the donation, that's all. The holiday days pass, when there's a sobering and I'll meet you where we are and it's in a serious situation. They'll be able to collect some claims that aren't mentioned very much right now, they'll need to make it possible for people to consume their rights, the question is where and how? Or you might think if it doesn't work out, it'll definitely be a problem and a commitment from a future government, so why do we care? Promises don't cost anything anyway, and they won't be the first to come true. The people learned. Sometimes you consciously accept as the truth what you know will not actually be realized because that is what you would like to hear. Well, it sounds very good to tell a story that should encourage young Croats and Croats and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be born. But when you translate it into cash and you get 34 or 63 kuna I have to admit it's not an amount that could motivate anyone at all. Let's be serious. The duty of this government as well as any other government is to ensure a decent life for its citizens and not to make them dependent on the budget but to provide them with a job that they and their families could live well without expecting charity and help from the state. This budget is not going to happen either. Someone in the debate mentioned the firmness of the government's and HDZ's goals. The only firmness of the objectives I am noticing is the firm objective of buying a new mandate. That's obvious. I hope that our citizens who may not really read the budget but experience of their own skin will feel the consequences of the past budget so that both this future and the next best they will be able to assess who in this assembly is really telling the truth and who is saying what they think some would like to hear. There are no gentlemen of regional development. That's obvious. There's no honest commitment to education either. We are a small nation of numbers and the only way we could be competitive in the world, and these are many of our scientists and have proved that we are capable of literacy and knowledge. Science. And the education trade unions say this: the lower average salary of education in the country is only for merchants, fishermen, warlords and waiters. If you witness a university professor or professor in elementary or high school at this level, you show what you actually think of 7% of your highly educated citizens. What do you really mean by that? Gentlemen, the teachers have received new obligations, and the teachers at school today are getting beaten up, which in our time was not the case. We all remember the article in the press thinking that there will be classes in some colleges on Sundays because of overbooked capacities due to poor equipment, lack of space, etc. Many schools don't have sports halls. Many of them have no information equipment and we are in the 21st century and we swear on science and literacy, cultural heritage, tradition, how great we are and how we deserve an equal legal place among such. We want the day when our education assignments are really bigger, when these people really show through material giving and working conditions that they are considered important for the future of this country, and we want the moment when we really live from work and social giving to those who are in such a state or older age that they can't work and that there's no one to worry about. I think with this government, we'll be waiting a long time. If the employment average is 15, 16 thousand people per 3 years are not difficult to calculate how many mandates would actually be needed to get rid of those 300 thousand unemployed. I'm afraid we can't afford the luxury of waiting so long. Neither can we, nor our children can and do not deserve it. They deserve a responsible, effective government to solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76227	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic. ... Excuse me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replica, the Honorable Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76228	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague! Not only is this budget not developmental but it is contrary to the programmes and the law established rights and obligations in many areas in relation to what the material financial means for the enforcement of these laws propose. And that's a very serious question. From the Youth Care Programme, through gender equality programme issues, population policies to legal obligations that have fallen to units of local self-government, organisation and society with public powers, and at the same time have not been provided with means to fulfil these obligations. And that's the issue of decentralisation. Second, which I would also like to mention in this replica of mine. I must tell you that with this budget, regardless of what it is trying to install the social component, the social component does not really improve significantly compared to the most socially vulnerable citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are socially in a difficult situation, mostly pensioners and unemployed, and then also workers with the lowest incomes in labour-intense activities that actually have low wages rather than those differences between these layers and rich layers in the Republic of Croatia will rapidly increase on the one hand. And on the other hand, the average not only pays that it will not follow a sufficient cost increase, the average basket prices for the average family, but for these suppressed ones will actually decrease rapidly. And in such a situation, not only will the existing situation not only not improve but the existing state will further dissipate, which will in fact cause additional social tensions and tensions. Thirdly, there is no doubt that it has actually tried to change the tax system related to profit and income tax to ensure an attempt to decentralisation regional development but I would like to remind myself that it will not, for example, be resolved closely through an increase in cities and municipalities or by twelve counties of which 6.4% of the budget funds that these issues will be resolved. In fact, this backlog of these peripheral counties will increase further compared to developed parts of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76229	I would like to thank you for not saying that the esteemed representative was not talking about the tax system. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't see it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If I turn over there and you get up, you be good enough to see me one more time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76230	Thank you. Comrade Arlovic, we agree with credibility in some sense is proved ready to be the same and funded. And as far as I'm concerned, our government is very often reminded of Super Hick, who once read Alan Ford, they know it's a hero who used to take away from the poor and share the rich, which shouldn't be done but pay attention to those really needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76231	Do not insult the Government of the Republic of Croatia in your actions. I'll give you a warning next time. Please remain at the level of debate on the state budget and dignity of the Croatian Parliament. The word has a distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let's start with the name of this budget. The government called it the budget of even development. You should call it the central deception budget. First of all, let's start with this even development, which is actually to say that this budget will allow for a balanced development of local self-government units. This budget includes the effects of one other law, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government which has not yet been voted and the question is whether it will be voted on. Because in order for him to be voted, he has to get 77 votes. The question is if they'll get it. It's a law that encroachs on the rights of local self-government units. But now there's one question whether he'll get an ordinary majority, given that HSP seems to have cancelled the government's obedience after HDZ framed him in this game around Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76233	Agent, I beg of you. Don't start right away. Let me say something as chairman. Please do not insult any party and parliamentary and non-parliamentary, and do not immediately at the beginning of your speech cause intolerance in this House. Please do not insult the Croatian Democratic Community that it has embellished the Croatian Party of Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76234	Yeah, we don't know about that now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76235	If you say that, you'll get a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76236	I don't know who should feel offended. So let's go back to the budget. As I said in it are embedded the effects of a law which has not been passed which is more or less incomprehensible. What happens to the budget if the law doesn't pass? And here, the tax on profit tax is projected to increase by 3 billion and 100 million. Are these 3 billion and 100 million the result of increased production, economic growth in this country? No, they're not. They are the result that what once belonged to local and regional self-government units is now going to Minister Shuker's central cash register. That's what the state takes for itself now. What decentralisation is really about is another data, that income from income tax will be lower by a billion and 900 million. So there's 3 billion and 100, here less than a billion and 900, the difference between a billion and 200 million. That's how much the government takes in this budget to local self-government units, and then it's called decentralisation. That is what this budget is called for, for completely unknown reasons, the budget of even development. When we speak, this budget is also not transparent and is being beaten and that it is transparent. Why? We don't see any extracurricular expenditure in it. In his opening statement, the minister said there is no such thing. And it's not that it doesn't. It was, it was, and it will be. On the return of debt to pensioners, we did not see that money in the 2006 budget and in that year, two tranches were returned. The first government is in charge of the Croatian Post Bank. Now, the bank's probably in charge out there. Now, I ask who was in debt to the pensioners, the Croatian Post Bank or the Government? Who's paying back the debt? Because if the Croatian Post Bank was in debt to the pensioners, then it really can't get into any budgets. The bank owes, the bank returns, and what does that have to do with the budget? But if the government was in debt to the Republic of Croatia, then it is through the budget, however, my dear gentlemen must see or it is also extra- budget expenditure. Which means that the budget is non-transparent, that it doesn't write everything in it. The second tranche was taken to the pensioners by their share of PLIVA from one fund and moved to another fund that was once again called retirement. It was taken from the pensioners in one pocket and put in another. It took all the pensioners out of their pockets and only returned to some. It's that hocus-pocus. This is how it is done to show itself effective, effective, caring for the pensioners, and in fact, at the simplest point, they were actually deceived. It took theirs to give to them. That the pensioners went badly speaking of a real pension drop. Real fall. Peace growing below inflation and pensions cannot be lived. Retired people can't help themselves. They can neither return to the world of work nor be employed on a part - time basis. They're old people, powerless. They must be able to live off their pensions. In this budget you can't see how the pensioners will live better. He won't. He's not gonna live any better. They live worse every day. And it's just, now it's just regular retirement coordination that doesn't offer them anything good. But there's another big problem. The difference between old and new pensioners, we can't see that solution in this budget either. We hear, we read in the papers, we hear from the prime minister, from the Deputy Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, that the government is considering some model that will eventually... Well, you've had three years to think. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The time of thought has passed. In the last year of the term of office, you have to show what you're up to, what are you up to? Because if you think about how to solve this problem for another year then he will clearly remain unsolved for the term of office of this government. It is not seen from this budget that citizens will increase their standards because the rates of expected growth are too low. Too low to be able to provide citizens with a better life. You can't see from this budget how Croatia's burning problem, high unemployment will be solved? Because economic growth rates are too low. If that growth is below 5%, there are no new jobs. They're gone. You can't see from this budget what to do with the educators. Here, they're on strike. You're guessing with them by 5% or 6% and you're 14% behind. You can't see from this budget whether our kids are going to be teaching frustrated, underpaid people or, or whether this government is really thinking about raising the level, raising the standard of these teachers' salaries so that they can do their job in peace and content. Can't you see from this budget how to solve burning health problems? How to shorten, reduce waiting lists? Because these waiting lists are the source of health corruption. For the most part, citizens of this government have been following promises, promises, promises, promises for three years. And today they found out something about who's making them those promises. A person who has come to his position in the party with fraud. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76237	Your Honor, I'm giving you a notice because of the violation of Article 214. He has a word, a replica, a replica of the vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76238	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, dear colleague Stazic. Well, not only can social gross production not ensure an increase in employment but the projection of the budget predicts that it will only reach 5% in 2009. So in 2009, they won't reach a rate that was 5.3% in 2003. And such a rate, despite the relative rise in national gross product and national income and a small increase in standards, cannot ensure a minimum monitoring of the growth of economic operators in Central and Developed Europe, Western Europe to which we want to join, and even less to establish a standard of our citizens that will be compatible with it. So our citizens, both as consumers and as social entities and as economic operators, will be completely inferior to the countries in which we want to join. That's the first thing we should point out anyway. Secondly, if there is no increase in the growth rate, there is no job creation. There is no new employment but in fact, employment will be monitored by the world of natural drain employees through retirement or departure to work outside the Republic of Croatia in the countries of the Central and Western and Western European Union. The third thing that should also be seen in all of this. Growth, insufficient growth of the national gross product cannot provide new investment funds that will adopt new... technologies that will enable the adoption of a modern division of work that is characteristic of Western Europe to be dominant in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this respect, our economy will grow more and more in a servant's relationship with the developed economy of the Western world. Therefore, this budget is not only not developmental or compatible with the trends of the European world. He is a consumer compared to trying to meet certain groups, social groups that could vote for the ruling coalition in the next elections but at the same time he is not even social enough in relation to the needs of the socially endangered population of the Republic of Croatia, let alone that he is developed... Development of the overall economy [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the Republic of Croatia which must produce certain results for the development of all of us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76239	Thank you, reply, the replica of the distinguished representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76240	Thank you. My colleague Stazić, you say that there are no expenditures in the budget and then the payment of debt to the pensioners for the first year, which is two billion and 400 million kuna. That's where it was thought to be worth it from the Retirement Fund. And in some ways, we might be able to accept it. But the problem is that in the 2006 budget, then probably even for 2007 it will be transmitted as well. There are no invoices, and let alone the payment of works for roads, there is not enough funds to pay for the current production, for subsidies for agricultural products, so that neither wheat is paid nor income support in full, etc. Hospital debt remains, especially county hospitals that are somewhere ahead of a jury account blockade. And if all of this were entered into the budget then it would not be 2.8% of the deficit, it could not be a growth of gross products with only 4.6% of inflation of 3.2%. So let's say one day similar to what the current government put on a 2003 star. Maybe one government will put a star on the 2007 deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76241	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76242	By replicating my colleagues, Zgrebec is talking about debts in health care, that hospitals owe to drug suppliers, that HZZO also owes suppliers, and that this is where one cycle is actually born of general indifference. Recently, the 15th law with this A and B list came into force. I was told today by doctors what it looks like in practice, in hospitals. The patient is lying in bed, then the doctor is obliged to come to him and ask if you want me to prescribe the medicine from the B list. Then this one says I will. Then he gives him the medicine and carries the invoice, carries the bill. Then this guy has to pay for it, because he can't get the cure until you pay. Then the question is, doctors wonder what they're going to do with immobile patients or those who are, for example, immobilized patients. Intubated. He can't even talk, he has, he's intubated. This is the achievement of a major health reform. This shows how this government effectively penetrates health care and how it solves the accumulated health problems. So it's giving birth, creating a general chaos, a circus of maximus that will have more people laughing at here for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76243	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I'm not going to discuss the budget on the expenditure side. I'm sorry there's no Minister Shuker in the hall right now. But I'm going to make every effort to help the Minister and the Government in that part of the budget that's the revenue side. For my debate, I was offered an item in the budget called "Improvement of tax revenues as part of the financial police" for which it was planned for next year for 26 million 981 thousand and 910 kuna. In fact, I think it is extremely good to provide in the State budget the means to modernise, improve the system that will lead to the tax being charged as much as possible and that we have as little grey economy as possible. Looking at the revenue side of the budget, and especially the part relating to income tax and the bill, some say about decentralisation, while others say about redistributing tax revenues, the total planned income tax will not exceed around 7 billion, 7 and a half. I don't know why so modestly planned income tax when last year's performance of that tax in 2005 was about 6 billion 800 for the first 10 months of this year, Minister Schuker said the other day that more than 8 billion were achieved. I looked at some regulations that could contribute to higher revenue on the budget, not to increase any tax, not to invent any new tax, but to get as much tax revenue as possible in accordance with existing legislation. So I looked at the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Interests and the Tax on Income. Namely, these are three regulations that regulate one type of activity for which no registration should be performed in Croatia or open a company or register trades. And it's perfectly legitimate to deal with the activity you're making capital income. Citizens of this country, such activity and people who are involved in this work, are called cameras, greeners, lenders. Different interests are used in different parts of Croatia. And indeed it is true, it is true that the Law on Mandatory Relations, that the Law on Interests regulates the contractual relationship between two citizens, lends each other money, that it has the right to account for the interest that has been paid, but also the Law on Income Tax calls the income from capital, i.e. the receipt from the loan claim. And all those cameras dealing with the loan of money to citizens at the end of the year should file a tax return, report their income and pay income tax. Every day we witness unkind stories in the Croatian public as those who have entered into a religious, debt-religious relationship with this type of activity pass through. Because in order to avoid or bypass that provision of maximum interest, the contract is already artificially increasing its principal to cover up the interest rates. I also learned that police can do almost nothing because these kinds of activities take place most often in cafes, fairs, markets, private apartments, houses. It is not a reported activity, there is no basis for anyone to do anything without the state having a record of citizens engaged in such a type of activity. It is interesting how effective we are when, as a state, we bring regulations that citizens of the Republic of Croatia must meet in order to be smokers, shoemakers, journalists, free journalists, book publishers, pastries, sailors, and for each activity and profession, if it enters the market, we have passed a series of regulations and regulations and regulations and every inspection service is responsible for supervision, control and sanctions. But if someone's into borrowing money and earning income that way, no one's controlling him, no one's watching him because he has no basis, he has no activity, he's not a businessman. They are neither craftsman nor craftsman, nor economic operator, nor service activity, is nothing. So it's a legal activity that takes place in the twilight zone. The fate of many people, many families are such that they were left without all the property when they entered. The fate of many families is such that we have actually remained trapped in such a relationship. I would like these 29 million kunas that the budget predicts that the state will spend on improving the tax collection system to be used rationally and to help the Ministry of Finance and the Minister because I said that the police claim that they cannot carry out surveillance because it is about the activity, the activity of the citizens for which... and no other inspection can control them. [[You don't understand.]] During yesterday, I found only here near the Parliament building in Zagreb on pillars and buildings 20 commercials of interest that offer different types of loans and loans to citizens of this country. There are no addresses or names, but there are phone numbers. Given the amounts of credit, the credit they offer, given the number of users, I also assume the interest that is being turned there, that income is being realised here, and that if it were taxed at the existing rates that we have in the Income Tax Act, that the government's revenue from that title alone could be about half a billion kuna. So I repeat, only from that title could the revenues amount to about half a billion kuna. I don't know, and I don't know, that's why I'm asking, Mr. Minister, is it really true that this activity and the activity of citizens aren't taxed, that they don't pay taxes or that the problem is that they can't be reached because they're not registered anywhere. I am not going to mention here a series of examples of families here in Zagreb or any other Croatian city just because of this, but wanting to make a contribution to you and your ministry, or to the Financial Police to advance the tax tax system without increasing taxes, introduce new taxes, simply charge what is now the law and mandatory relations and the Law on interest and the Tax Tax on Income Act, it seems to me that this is an article 30. I want to believe, I don't know who's at the head of the Financial Police, that based on telephone numbers and these ads it's really possible in a short time to make an insight into their business, possibly filed applications, billed and charged interest income tax, I say some call them lenders, greeners and other activities. I also want to believe that next year and the next years and this kind of business activity in this country won't be out of control, that we won't be able to pronounce the fact that since they haven't registered their activity, inspection surveillance isn't possible and apparently only the Financial Police can knock on the door. I don't know, I know the phone numbers, so I'm asking you to hand it over, at least these dozen people are investigating, and we're getting information on how much taxes they've paid this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76245	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76246	If I understood you well, you said at the beginning of your exposure that the police couldn't reveal those involved in such lending, or interest. But later on, you said yourself that it was not true, if the police and the Financial Police and the IRS were willing, if only the inspectors would walk along the billboards where the ads are, along the tram stations, where these ads are next to the pillars, they could come up with phone numbers and, of course, people who deal with this business.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76247	Replica, the Honorable Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76248	Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you mentioned the problem of decentralisation. I think this question that now that income redistribution and income tax compensation is practically going on, we can't call it decentralisation but actually just redistribution. In addition, why not use the official terms used by the Proposer of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, to compensate the tax and to redistribute it. That's number one. Number two. Why isn't that decentralisation? Because it is not yet sufficiently reduced funds that are proportionate to the obligations transferred to units of local and regional self-government and could be financed. Number three. It is not possible to accept a decentralisation which is going to harm the third, and at the same time it is not actually going down from the original funds belonging to the state budget to the units of local self-government. What's the third one? It is about the City of Zagreb, and in this context should be reminded, if the revenues of the City of Zagreb, in particular through the amendments to the law, the methods of funding relating to the Law on Profit Tax and Income Tax, are significantly reduced, then the relatively constitutional order of reducing the obligations of the City of Zagreb by changing the laws relating to the obligations of the City of Zagreb on the one hand and on the other, we still will not open one very important issue, the City of Zagreb is not only the capital but it is also the main city of central government. There is a question of costing, a whole series of material and in-house services that the City of Zagreb also provides to the central government, and that the Central Authority does not actually participate in financing. It is therefore difficult to talk about decentralisation in this context, let alone regional development. We are only asked when the concept of regional development should be opened and when it should definitely open the issue of decentralisation, state deconcentration, but by lowering powers from the state and by denying the state the original funding it provides through tax and innu policy at that level and by bringing it down to local and regional levels so that our units of local and regional self-government can actually perform that function that is intended for them in the local self-government system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76249	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76250	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Already in the debate on behalf of the Club of National Minorities, I have touched the funds intended to cultivate cultural heritage, cultural creation, national minorities, however, members of national minorities in everyday life certainly participate in the social, social, economic segment of life and are certainly interested in how we will have education, health, social care, but also agriculture and the economy. Speaking of schooling here, there's already been a lot of talk about how pleased we are or how dissatisfied we are with the speed of construction. I have to say that when it comes to institutions, school institutions which are, first of all, or which are children of members of national minorities that we can't be completely satisfied because other than the serious investments that were under way in 95, 98, when the countries of origin helped us, first of all, the Czech Republic and Slovakia in the construction of the primary school in Daruvar, the primary school in Josipovac, then in Končanica where these countries have been participating with 50% of these years we haven't had any more serious investments in the area where minorities live. I must say that I am truly pleased that the Jell-Ocessack will finally cry out and that this school will receive a hall but also students and schools in Herzegovec, and schools in Končanica deserve to have physical education for it under appropriate conditions, not just in some other schools. So I think that we will have to think that since there is no support from local administration units, because they believe that the minority problem is not a problem of local self-government units, we will obviously have to participate more from the state budget. A very unserious approach is preschool education, although many will say that preschool education really does not fall under the subject of a state budget because preschool education is funded by local self-government units. I must say that minority kindergartens are still co-financed by the state budget, which we are grateful for, but unfortunately it appears on the ground an increasing care for minority kindergartens because they are mostly low capacity. It's the largest with 125 children, and there's simply no support for local self-government units. There is pressure both on the reduction of the number of children and on maintenance and employment in such minority kindergartens. Which means it's hard to talk about minority education, about the knowledge and upgrade of the modern system if we don't and do our part in the preschool segment without saying how much this is going on on the national policy and agenda. I'm not going to talk about infrastructure here, about highways because we certainly support every project, every building, every mile of the road, but next to the highway we'd like to see the fast road Viruvica-Daruvar-Kutina, or Virovitica-Occupied, and normally when we talk about the modernisation of the railway, we should also encourage that we should certainly earn more attention and the railway Frog-Bjelovar, but I think that segment is also working. What I always do with great attention, it's a matter of agriculture, and today I'm already here saying on behalf of the club that the funding for the 2.30 billion incentives is really big. However, I would like to warn that it would certainly be time for the support to be treated as support for non-commercial agricultural economies to really transfer whether in the social context, which I am less inclined to do, but certainly should consider an age pension or a national pension. Because here, year-on-year funding is growing by almost 25%, and next year it is planned to support the income of non-commercial agricultural economies, which are primarily the ageing economies of 90 million, and 90 million if invested in some agricultural projects is really not small. It is good that investment support for agricultural projects is growing by 44% and I hope that with SAPHARD programmes and foreign donations our agriculture will not even be able to absorb all the funds, since we do not have enough quality programs. But I think there's a little bit of guilt here and the Ministry of Agriculture that has limited areas where they can, or that can run for the SAPHAARD funding programme, and normally there's not enough quality programs in that segment right now. Education in agriculture and fisheries, position to be reduced. It is a bit illogical at a time when we have before us the adoption of the Law on cattle farming which provides for one article and compulsory education of those who work in livestock farming and who, for the time being, are indeed at the level of primary school education, and in order to be able to participate in programmes, but new technologies will require more knowledge from them. We will legally oblige them that they must be educated but the funds for agriculture education are unfortunately reduced. It would also be good if the minister explained the reduction in the position of the directorship for market and structural support. We have always felt that these are reserves in some way that can be quality monitoring of the transport of agricultural products, since Croatia has no quality stock exchange, that they can jump into certain interventions, when we have a surplus or deficit of agricultural products on the market. Unfortunately, we see from year to year, these funds are being reduced and I'm afraid that by investing in the development of livestock, especially in cattle, in pig farming where it really takes these investments and I welcome their increase. But by investing precisely in these productions which unfortunately show always and great oscillations on the market, we can just happen to create problems, and the lack of funds in the directorship of market and structural support can be crucial to the functioning of this segment of agriculture and the marketing of agricultural products. When I said that it was really good to increase the funding for both beef production and pigmeat since we do not have any other meat for sure that these are good programmes, however, I must say that by building these farms we have not done enough and we did not foresee the management programmes precisely organic waste that these farms will create and I think that the budget, parallel with the funds to build such farms, would have had to have the virtually defined management of these organic wastes that unfortunately make big problems throughout Europe, but on the other hand Europe solves them, Europe encourages such care and I think that such programmes should have gone with the farms. And in the end, I would like to ask another clarification, and it is interesting how certain items are interpreted and when they are entered into, I believe that the minister may not be able to answer it in detail, but I will analyse an interesting item that has stuck to my eye, and I fear that such items in the budget are a lot that pass us by and go unnoticed. The programme, which is part of the Ministry of Agriculture under p 1177 management and protection of forests and hunting grounds where there are 10 million 418 thousand in that position and in the explanation, stands out among other things that the funds will be used to compensate for the damages in game in non-contracted hunting sites, but unfortunately for the compensation of these damages, only 350 thousand kunas are allocated, but then it says that large coins will be used to invertarise forest resources, information on the state of the forest for the purposes of forest policy, environmental protection, protection of nature where almost 6 and a half million are allocated under the same position, of which for intellectual services 800 thousand etc. It would be all right if our forests were private, if there was something you wanted to do. Let's not forget to repeat that figure I said today that 95% of the forest today is in a public company or state-owned company in the Croatian forest, that they have employees working both on environmental and environmental protection, protecting nature, and not to mention what they need to do and forest economic bases, so I don't see that such large funds can be allocated here in that position. Such positions where there are very often under one title hiding funds that are unfortunately difficult to justify, I think there is a lot and that in the future these individual positions should be better explained, because I say if the foundation of the game damage, and out of 10 million 400 thousand only 350 is directed in that direction I say in the invertarisation of practically if they have professional services, I do not see that this should be allocated in this way from the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76251	Replica, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76252	Mr. President, I'll be right back. My colleague Chuhnil came to you in a replica, you said that you were one part satisfied with this budget, but given the relationship between local administration and self-government that you would have to ask even more from the state budget, so I will read only these items to you, which is the achievement and protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities 35 million and 283 thousand and 506 kuna. These allocations are based on the equipment and professional service of the Council for National Minorities, the achievement and determination of policies, etc., the operation of the Office for National Minorities, the programme for national minorities, the Roma programme, the national programme for Roma, etc., etc. Never in an individual's life, so we are not satisfied with any community as much as we have and I do not want to compare this with an item that is set in the budget for the Croatian national minority in the European countries, and I can prove to you except for one national minority in Croatia's prayer Croats by number there are more than any other, and you do everything you can to distribute funds towards national minorities in the Republic of Croatia one national minority does not play a special role, so there is nothing to do with this right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76253	Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Well, it is, but the tile needs it. Come on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76254	A colleague speaks of national minorities getting 35 million. I also said that 260 organizations get to cultivate cultural heritage 35 million kunas, that they are satisfied, that they certainly participate in it qualityly, and it is difficult to compare it and I do not want to enter how much Croatia will give to its minority outside because yet the minorities in Croatia contribute to this budget. But when I was talking about dissatisfaction then I was just talking about the dissatisfaction with the approach of building school facilities and access to preschool education which unfortunately is about small kindergartens, kindergartens with minority omens where there are two languages and those kindergartens, since they are small I also said that they are participated even out of a budget that I am grateful for, but that the local self-government units, unfortunately, are very bad at dealing with such minority kindergartens, the most common threat, integration with other kindergartens, etc. It is precisely the advantage of these kindergartens that they educate and prepare children, and I always say it bilingually because it would not be good for children to not know Croatian and minority languages and administrations and therefore give priority to minority kindergartens and give opportunities for such kindergartens to exist and I think that here we have to look for support of the state budget, a greater pawnage, because I repeat the units of local self-government to machete relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76255	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76256	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First, I must say, Mr. President, that I am pleased to say that what I am about to say will be under the authority of your presidency and that my colleague who has spoken has received a rather critical warning, and since I too will speak very critically about the culture budget, I hope that I will not get it. In that sense, I think you have significantly wider abilities. ... You weren't, too bad you weren't following, but there was a reminder of some truth, so I'll also tell some truths. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First of all, it is a great thing and I very much support the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Culture because it is great that it finally reached its level compared to the 2003 budget. Finally. So the bill is very simple. He's finally reached nominal, realistically he hasn't reached it yet. So from 877 million we came to a billion and 8 million, which is actually 203 million progress. In this 203 million progress, 36% of the budget increase should first be calculated. If that 200 million were taken away by 36%, I don't think it's gonna be hard for you to figure out how much that would be. I'm going to tell you that the Ministry of Culture budget in 2003 was 666 million. That's something below 666 million compared to the percentages that are valid. Well, that would be great if it were just like that. Yet after 3 years, 3 years of the collapse of that budget now things have improved a little bit. Unfortunately, however, in these 200 million increases, cultural ministry funds are hiding the following items. It hides 80 million kuna from the rent planned. The memorial rent has been defined as something that will follow a proportional increase in the budget to provide additional funds for what needs to be done in a more productive area, because Croatia is, as a result, the cultural country that has exceptional cultural resources and which has not been valorised for years, nor has it managed to drive them here the most moneyier. With natural resources, these are our most important resources, and that's the identity that matters to us. So here's the deal. In what has now grown out of these 200 million is 80 million rents that should have been allocated through budget funds. In this respect, 27 million loans from the European Bank for Development for a specific project relating only to this project, which is a plan and which has nothing to do with the budget, is that these are all budgetary resources but has nothing to do with the larger funds in the area of culture. These are simply the funds that are given there, which will be realised if they are because they are just plans. In this, the increase of some 30 million related to something natural is this part of the Ministry of Culture that goes with nature and also to the increase of 100 employees in the Ministry of Culture, 100 new employees in the Ministry of Culture. I'll honestly say, in my day I thought it should be one-thirty new employees and that it would certainly be very good one 20th, 30th maybe from that existing capacity... So now it's 100 new employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When all of this is summed up, we have completely spent this huge sum of 200 million that were to go to the Ministry of Culture and which is now being figured out as some kind of increase in funds for the Ministry of Culture. They've increased volume, they've been created to say new resources for funds, these resources should have been used to add to budgets. It is now expressed as budgetary resources and in fact we have less in total than we had. Please, what I'm about to read is not my data that I invented. It's the Ministry of Culture's data. In 2003 we had to protect cultural monuments, protect cultural heritage 145 million, 2004. 135 million, 2005. 117 million. Please, from 145 we fell to 117 and in 2006 we had 128 million to jump to 254 million and I explained to you what those 254 million are from and how they come from. That means that we lost about 150 million in this period and now we're raised by the funds that were meant to be over budgets. Like this. This could go from item to item. Otherwise, it's said that the budget has grown culturally by 20 percent, etc. Yeah, he grew up. He refers to new employees in the administration, he refers to new conservatives and I don't know which departments. I don't know if you've been following that, but we're going to have a lot of conservatory departments now. I can tell you a newly founded person is just like that in one place next to Split, not to name him because our beautiful and decent people live there too, so they don't think it's relevant to them. So there's now a new conservatory department. The head of the department shall be appointed a person who does not even meet the formal conditions of the competition. The conservatory service and protection of cultural heritage is something that must be protected by the state and under the supervision of the state is terribly strict because otherwise the fall into the local plowshares that I would call irresponsible pressures is extremely strong. So we just had less resources here and the funds that we got in this way will be spent on not training conservation services but we'll spend on new shapes and new departments of conservation, for new headmasters of which, therefore, the first to come has about this shape that I said about. It is quite expensive and sad and therefore cannot be said that the cultural budget is progressing but can be talked about concealing the actual items and one strange behaviour of the Ministry of Culture in the context of what is presented as a budget and as if I were to say the verification of what is involved. We know that the government, after we had time to say so, had terrible restrictions to change anything in the budget, then it gave way, and then the rebalancing included less and less, in the end, to say in some of the internal acts changing the budget items. Recently, we had a chance to see a debate between me and the current minister in which he claimed that 52 million and 400 kuna were more than 54 million and 200 thousand kuna. It ended that way, and now I have to tell this Parliament and the public that it heard it well that it was later, and now it has falsified the already existing Culture Ministry plan that just contained a 52 million figure and 400 to another 2 million more. So how can the plan be changed besides the rebalancing? We have a mass of items where we don't know what's what? We have items that I'm just going to mention, and I'm not going to bring them up now because I don't have enough documents, but I have enough indications that there are substantial funds that are spent not only on the unplanned basis but in some sectors that are... The government made an extraordinary effort to be transparently placed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It refers to funding in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I have not seen in the budget anywhere. I haven't seen them anywhere. Where I haven't seen any realisation anywhere, and I don't know how they shared where we know that earlier contracts have replaced the mere decisions of the government, but it will obviously still be a story for the public, and we'll have to say that many things that we can't solve in these discussions that go into eight and a half nights without so much public presence in relation to the public who normally well follows these things and where many know what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76257	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll just make two false allegations right, I won't have for the rest of the time, but I'll do it in the replica. So, Mr. Former Minister, the execution of the Ministry of Culture in 2003 was 641 million 729 thousand and 661. You said that finally now in this year this government and this Ministry of Culture will reach your execution. How do you think it's gonna happen when the 2007 proposal goes beyond a billion? That's impossible. And as for counterfeiting, you just falsified one piece of information when you were talking about protecting monumental works. The last years of the coalition government have spent on this activity not the amount you said but the amount that we have read from your budget in that year, which is 114 million unlike this government and this Ministry of Culture, which in 2006 spent 172 million and in 2007 plans 254 million. So you falsified this data because we're dealing with your execution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76259	Replica is also a respected representative of Jagoda Majska-Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll just read some numbers instead of any speech. I will talk about the last year of the coalition government and the Ministry of Culture and the 2007 proposal. The peace and health insurance of artists amounted to 12 million in 2003, amounting to 41 million in 2006 and is now foreseen in 2007. 44.8. International cultural co-operation in the last year of coalition government 12.5 million and our last year of this government predicts 15.4. Investments and investment maintenance your last year 73 million, our last year 179 million. I hope my colleagues are following the truth for the sake of it. Cultural institutions, your last year of 2003. 143 million comma 3, our last year, 178.3. Archive programs your last year 4 million 600, our last year 6 million 600. The museum-gallery activity in the last year of the coalition government amounted to 16 million comma 8, ours will be 22 million comma 4. Theatre music programs in your last year 34 million, in our last year 39 million. Book publishing and libraries in your last year 54 million, in our 61.5. And the protective works on the monument, now listen well to your colleagues of these figures, in 2003 114 and in our last year 254. The last item of film and cinema in your last year 35 million, in our 39. And why did I bring this data out? Because you're on the board today and now you're trying to say that it's finally some shift in four years of our government and I've now shown how much you've made until your fourth year. As far as publishing is concerned, I will repeat what is very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76261	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76262	All right, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76263	Reply to the replica, respected representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76264	Dear Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic first did not know how to read the budget in one elemental thing that I was talking about 36... budgets relative to that period, and that all you've said is such a slight increase that those data that you've been presenting are catastrophic and actually speak the opposite of what you want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it seems to me that your data from which you have received them are not quite accurate because, as it has already happened to you in this ministry 54 million less than 52 million so I will now read to you the information from that ministry where you say that in 2003 114 million were given for protection and 145, 123 950 thousands and 370 for fixed monuments and 21 million kuna and 767 kuna actually totals that amount of 145. Mrs. Martincevic, since it has already been well known, it has now been seen on these eclectic data that this ministry where 52 can be more than 54 so now and with you it seems. Secondly, you mentioned one thing that is very unpleasant and is actually the only debt ever made and passed on to anyone at the Ministry of Culture. You're talking about growing up to say "retirement and social" for independent artists. Do you know, Mrs. Martincevic, that the first act that the Government had to do in 2000 was 8 million unpaid debt, and that's the only thing that was long because it's not an agreed obligation, it's not a museum of contemporary art, it's not something we promised to do but something we should have paid for. We formed independent artists and then we didn't pay them. And so as these data are to you and all the rest of the data are unfortunately for you, but unfortunately for the cultural public in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76265	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76266	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, we've been discussing the budget of the Republic of Croatia all day, which is no wonder because it is indeed a fundamental document. It is an act that shows how the government is planning and what it plans to do in its last year of office. It is true that this budget, i.e. that the funds have increased by 20 billion kuna by four years, but now the question is who felt it. Who felt for these four years that the budgets had increased by 28 billion kuna. According to a public opinion survey, as many as 64% of citizens say they live worse today than they did before. This increase in the budget and this year, which is increasing by 8 billion kuna, was not felt by the pensioners either, and today there was a lot of talk about the pensioners because the pensioners in 31.12.2003 had an average pension of 44.71% compared to the average salary of the Republic of Croatia and now have 39%. I will also not talk about new pensioners because it is said, enough is said and the truth is that this budget does not provide for means to correct the reform injustices that have been done to the pensioners. This increase in budgets and budgets has not felt and will not feel unemployed because over 4 years, 16 000 new jobs have been created, which is really insufficient. Has this increase in budgets felt health? We're talking about health reform, and of all these reforms, we've been given the introduction of participation, and we've got drug lists, we've got unsettled hospital accounts, medical personnel say hospitals and health care are in a very difficult, very difficult state. Has this increase in budgets been felt by citizens who have a category of social cases? Well, they're not. Indemnity, social benefits remained the same and remained unchanged. By means of public communication funds, and even today, interestingly from fellow MPs from a position that does not defend this budget and they do not want to convince us of its fairness, its development and I do not know what not, but it is very hard to point out children's allowances, maternity benefits, and thus wants to prove that population policy will be achieved and forget that population policy is not just made up of a new birth. But the truth is that out of all these praises, the child's allowance is larger only for 34 kunas. That maternity benefits are higher only for 63 kunas. He wants to convince us here today that this budget is aimed at equating regional, equating to regional, equating the development of the Republic of Croatia. That's just not true. It is a convenient sentence, it is a convenient sentence because the Croatian people have publicly declared that the Republic of Croatia is regionally unequally developed, and this is not an opinion based on some data that is not available. That's what statistics tell us. Well, speaking of this very regional development, then we have to say that the Regional Development Fund records 1% more than last year. However, when we look at the structure of the expenditure of these funds, then we will see that, for example, Brodo-Posavia County from the Regional Development Fund will receive 68% of the funds realised in 2005. Požega County will receive 72%. Virovitic 72, Vukovar 60%. And which is very interesting only the Osijek-Baranja County will receive more funding than it received in 2005. After today I think it's perfectly clear why only Osijek-Baranja County? In order to amortise what I announced would happen when today's main regionalist idea holder sat in the ruling party, and I also told Finance Minister and Prime Minister Sanader that such a policy would lead to a movement for the region, which would only be an introduction to autonomy, and I am not an autonomist. So the budget of the Republic of Croatia must also show how all those national strategies that we have adopted will be realised. And today, when I look at this budget, then I have a calm soul and a calm heart that I have been very critical of these strategies, which I have pointed out is that it is a list of good wishes and that real political will does not stand and therefore those national strategies would be realised and realised. So here's an example we've adopted changes or a new strategy imagine in line with the European Union, a strategy against drug abuse. When we discussed the report a month ago, the abuse of intoxicating drugs in the report was said to have not been implemented in the actions of the action programme and the national strategy because no funds were provided in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Now and then, with all the persuasion that I agree with, no one should convince me. Drugs is indeed the cancer of today's society, it destroys society. From family to top of state. Not to mention how much money is being turned around in this drug world, however, it is very interesting that only the Office for the Prevention of the Abuse of Drug Intoxication is recording the drop in budgets compared to the realized funds in 2005. Now, of course, I have to ask myself, if the funds are meant to stop the abuse of intoxicating drugs, how much is the will to end that evil? Obviously, these political wills are gone and we will have to conclude in the re-report not only of this Office but also of everyone else that we have shown good will in the National Strategy, but there is no realisation of that goodwill. Furthermore, we have adopted the Consumer Protection Strategy in our time. We passed the Consumer Protection Act. We have boasted that we are harmonising our legislation with the means, with the legislation of the European Union. And then I said, "No, we don't need the Consumer Protection Act for the sake of the European Union, but we need this law because of our citizens." However, neither this budget provides funds for the implementation of national consumer protection programmes or for strengthening protection. This budget, therefore, is not socially sensitive. It does not lead to the unification of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. It does not provide new jobs as evidenced, the very materials that speak about the acceleration of economic growth in 2009 will reach a rate of 5%. But this budget, in addition to that, is unfairly irrationally divided, has a series of absurd ones in it, and among other things, I cite one absurdity. There is one item that says the draft of a new Law to encourage the development of a small economy and thus provides 200 thousand kuna. What kind of law are we going to make, what kind of changes we're going to make so that we don't stress that the former Ministry of Small Work, the small and medium entrepreneurship, were making legal proposals for free and delivered to this House free of charge legal proposals. We who are sitting in the Croatian Parliament will see that the legislative proposals we received from the Government of the Republic of Croatia are gone and are not there, and perhaps it is fortunate that they are not there and that they were not there because this is exactly the budget that says that it is the completely senseless Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am convinced in the last term.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76267	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76268	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, although there are none here, and there is, I apologize, Minister Shuker, you are sitting here with the MPs. Excuse me. Dear Minister of Finance. I'm sorry there's not one...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76269	It's hard to spot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76270	Yeah, yeah, he switched to MPs. He'll think it's time for him to go back to the MPs himself. But joke aside. I think it's very important that we discuss the state budget. I am saddened by the fact that we are discussing as colleague Zgrebec said in a rather chamber atmosphere, that no single HDZ representative or ruling majority with the pensioner in this budget has debated at all so far in any way in an individual debate. So far, it has become offended that no amendment to this government, no proposal for an opposition to come, because the ruling does not give for some of me entirely unknown reasons for the amendment so that the budget is not accepted and I think it is another underestimation of Parliament by the Government, because, no matter what, this Parliament should make a budget. But when we discuss the state budget, then we usually all point out that it is the most important document that can be adopted in the debate in the Croatian Parliament precisely because in the budget, but only in the budget is the very clear view of the programme priorities, the activities that the government will take in the following year. It is clear from this draft budget that some before me have already pointed out, next year the parliamentary elections are and this is a typical pre-election budget. The government team spends, completely irresponsiblely sharing money with groups that are pre-election to her for these or those reasons. The latest acquisitions in this regard are these measures of population policy. In order not to get the wrong idea that we understand each other perfectly well, I am not in any way against supporting those who need help, but not even the richest society are allowed and I cannot afford some luxury that we allow in Croatia. And how else to characterise it rather than as a pre-election purchase which is politically very cheap but is very expensive for this country in the long run. Because if we're going to think ahead, I'm asking you where we get the money for five or ten years that we're paying all those promises and all those commitments we made. We sold Pliva, we sold HT, now it's selling INA, there's talk of selling HEP. So what happens when we sell everything? The situation is becoming even more dramatic to some even extreme extent when we know we have neither planned nor implemented nearly so many developmental, infrastructure projects at the same time. But it is becoming increasingly evident that these problems created by this government will still be solved by another government. As we have so far pointed out many times the nice words and plans of that, all promises of the Government should be justified and materialised precisely when adopting the state budget. I'm asking if this state budget is in line with the declared declarations, especially those that this is about the knowledge society. The government argues that this budget has made a significant step in increasing resources for education and science and that we are finally moving towards a knowledge society. It has already been made clear by the debate that has been today during the day and the layman that this is about quite a lot of drinkers and quite a lot of concealment of facts. I hope that no one in Croatia today is smart enough to question the fact of the poor qualification structure of the population and that somewhere it is our job to repair this poor qualification structure, that is to train people for complex processes and to produce new values based on companies based on knowledge and the creation of a knowledge society. The stance is also declared by the Croatian government. In addition to the declaration, however, the Government has an obligation to make concrete decisions and to test its own credibility right on the budget. Given this and accordingly, given Croatia's lagging behind in the financing of science and education, I think it was necessary to make additional financial efforts to start reaching members of the European Union. It is generally known that the growth of the budget of at least 15% a year may only lead Croatia to the degree of separation for education and science that the European countries practiced in 2002. In 2004, Slovenia increased the science budget by 24% and for technology by as much as 67%. How's that in Croatia? It is true that the budget for education, science and sport is increasing by 9%, i.e. 866 million kuna. Which, I went to look at what that 866 million kuna went on, I mean conditionally gone. It turns out that 200 million kunas went to basic school salaries, these 5%, 100 million dollars on high school salaries, 100 million kunas on high school salaries. To this should be added another 100 million of these regular costs of this account simply in the system itself. 240 million kunas are free textbooks, so that really new increase that should be that step we're talking about has about 200 million, that's about 1 and a half to 2% somewhere. One part of that amount of the newly increased has gone to all these major new agencies that we have based in the ministry spell, from this portfolio, there are 4 of them with this absolutely agreeing that these things should be removed from the ministry into specialized agencies. But by the way, I ask how many people, or money, are reduced by the administration of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, since some of the jobs that the ministry has been doing now, or most of these jobs, are no longer being done in the ministry at all. So the real increase in the education budget is between one and a half to 2%, downgraded by growth and inflation, for economic war and inflation would mean a real decline. But nothing new from this government, we have witnessed this with all of these so far budgets concerning education and science. And I think this salary situation that I'm going to say later is quite a faithful picture. And they've been reading to us today, colleagues from HDZ, some of the jokes that government experts probably served about what happened in 2003, what it is today. I would now ask if you would now read it again or if you intend to read it again, that it would also point out that the total state budget in 2003 was 80 billion kuna, that it is now 110 billion. So it's 35% increase, and if we want to compare the items, then we have to reduce these items by 35%, or increase these other ones by 35%, and then we're going to get real numbers. But these figures here, however, are not spoken by any HDZ colleagues because these figures simply and that calculation will not be favourable. A 10% increase in three years would hardly be collected. I've been counting on all these projects at the Ministry of Education, and none of them go through 10% of the sum total in all three years. What kind of increase are we talking about then? However, respected colleagues and colleagues, our citizens, teachers, teachers, are not interested in my mathematics either, are not interested in HDZ mathematics, are not interested in Primorce's mathematics, nor in Shuker's mathematics, they are interested in what they can buy for their salary. Enlightenrs have calculated that for their salary, they can buy 7% less things in the store than they bought when the government's mandate began and that's devastating for Croatia. There's a lot of talk here about the strike, there's talk of pay delays, and I'm going to add to it that the less salary of educators only have merchants, fishermen, warlords and waiters today. ... Merchants, fishermen, warlords and waiters on average we're talking about teachers about VSS profession. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll talk more about some details about when the amendments will be discussed, but now just one detail. I think we need to strategically define what we actually want in this country. We, for the prevention of violence in schools which is a major problem, set aside a million and 200 thousand kunas. For all schools in the Republic of Croatia, primary and secondary and for the whole year. For the second two-day congress of Croatian scientists, we stand out 2 million kunas. I'm not saying we shouldn't single out for one such convention, but for this one two-day congress, we spend 80% more money than we stand out to prevent violence in all primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia. Or, for example, to create a pedagogical standard that is a key document, in the secondary school of a million kuna, and two million kunas to teach children in elementary school to ride a bike. Children need to learn how to ride a bike, but I think we still need to set certain priorities. I will not support this budget, of course, there are no new and reform processes in it, and I think that if we want to reach others, if we want to go to the country of knowledge that we must run, we are not only running slowly, but we are taking our country back very slowly, and I do not think that this must be the strategic commitment of any Croatian government, not a single representative here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76271	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76272	Well, I'll make two incorrect allegations right. First of all, if you were thinking about the papers that I brought and read to my colleagues Lugarić, these are not jokes, these are official data from the Ministry of Culture that you could have come to if you wanted to try. But since there's nothing wrong with you, you're going to go to that ministry. Secondly, among the professions that you listed as having such and such, therefore, which would only have a lower salary, you have made a mistake. I'll tell you that the academic actress who finished all possible schools, as the first salary, has three thousand 400 at the national theatre. That young academic musicians who learned violin so that they could even start playing in one ensemble, and play from their 6 to 24 when they are employed, also start with some 2.5 to 3,000. It's not exactly how you said I didn't know about cleaners, garbage, etc. But since there's nothing wrong with you, I'm guessing what I just told you, and it's certainly true, it won't do any good.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76273	Honorable representative of Ante Markov. He's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. He's also losing his right to say a word. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. He's gone. He loses his right to a word just like the respected representative Luka Roic who is not there. And respected representative Zdenko Koračević, as well as respected representative Jakša Marasovic, together with representative Zvonimir Sabati and Mr. Representative Cačica, and also with representative of the respected Mark Church and Miljenko Doric, there is only one other representative left, and this is the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76274	Otherwise this waiting for me to talk about the budget damaged my personal budget, because I just got word that someone broke my car in front of the Parliament. Unintentional, and someone is... But here, I'd start in an unusual way this just along the way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here I would like to commend Minister Shuker as an opposition representative for one thing, here's what's left of us until the end because we've often had situations that aren't good, that ministers don't stay until the end of the point they're sort of defending. I really wouldn't be longer, after all, at the end of all this, I just want to say that if Croatian society were to develop at the rate that our budget is growing and looking at the period from 1994 to today, then we would really be a country of happy people. This budget has increased from 23 billion to 108 billion kuna from 1994 to 2006, which is 4.65 times. Unfortunately, the gross social product increased from 92 billion to 250 billion kuna in the same period, which is 2.7 times. And this budget is greater here by 9 billion than the previous one and, as many have noticed, it's growing quite fast. I'd just like to list a few things that I don't think are good at. Someone has mentioned it before, we often talk about shipbuilding. It is mentioned that shipbuilding is often mentioned in Croatian politicians, we swear that it is the only real Croatian product that brings a large amount of living money regardless of the subsidies the state gives, it has certain advantages, but here we see that in the budget that has grown by 9 billion kuna, the promotion of shipbuilding falls. It is also interesting that small shipbuilding is being stimulated, so for 10 million kunas, that part is smaller than it was in last year's budget. What's particularly surprising is that it doesn't seem to require a lot of money, it's a little bit of the means to prevent the spread of seaweed, the Kaulerpa, there are several species in the Adriatic. We know that this algae is spreading very quickly, that it de facto kills life in the Adriatic. She also appeared in, in Hvar, here is the last in the Kornati, and the culture minister in which he promised it, the other day he said, about 900 thousand kunas to resuscitate it here, in Kornati in the national park. But you see, the budget is, in fact, in that item "preventing the spread of seaweed, caulerpa" in the Adriatic is guaranteed zero kuna. But we have a little further prevention of the spread of invasive species, so I guess there are these algae. It's supposed to be a million kunas. But since the minister has promised 900 thousand kuna only for the Kornati, there will be 100 grand left for everything else. And we know that the submarine is threatened not only on the Kornati, and it seems to me that this is a pretty big problem, and it's really kind of saving here, so maybe it shouldn't be saved. It's not a political matter, it's a general matter of protecting our submarine, which will be very dramatic for those who will come behind us if this algae continues to spread in the way it is now spreading. Then we have the incentive to co-finance and modernise the fishing fleet. That from 30, almost 35 million in the last budget is now going down to 18 million. I don't see any reason for that if we also consider everything we say about the need to modernise the fishing fleet and the position of fishermen in our country at all. I also don't understand why the funds for the Adriatic Islands' water supply are being reduced. From 12 million to 10 million in this budget, therefore, compared to last year's, and you see exactly the spatial plans that are now being adopted, which are also spoken of in one way or another, predict on our islands, let's take on Brač 2 golf courses. This is absolutely current, if such plans are accepted and are going to build such sites, the current water supply solution will not be enough for these golf courses that bring one specific clientele that is rich and desirable, but requires quite a large amount of water. Since this is a specific case, then, of the islands, it seems to me that we have had to think about harmonising such needs for building such content, if they are already entering into the country's spatial plans and what the state is predicting. Because the county doesn't have any resources, they're kind of the poorest when we look at that piece of cake. Something I don't personally understand, so I expect someone to explain it to me, I don't know when. But you see, when it comes to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, we have one item, professional exams and other activities of empowering natural and legal persons. Those last year are growing from 680 thousand to 42 million kuna. I mean, it's just, maybe it's a lot to pass those exams, I don't know, authorized natural and legal persons, but I'd like someone to explain it because it's dramatically, I mean, it's incredibly big growth. And at the same time, there's no such thing as algae, to prevent the spread of those seaweeds that are devastating, there's no way we can see that, it seems to me, and around the water that the problem is, etc. Then we have another item that's interesting in the same ministry. These are fees for the work of representative and executive bodies of commissions and the like. That's what it's called. I find this incomprehensible, for example. In 2006, it was 480 thousand kuna, now 41 million and 400 thousand kuna. I mean, 41 million and 400 thousand kuna is an increase of 41 million for fees, for the work of representative and executive bodies, commissions and similar within the Ministry of Environmental Protection, etc. I mean, it's just, here's how I don't get it. I also think that given the situation in our islands and the wealth of these budgets from these environments, there is a need to provide funding for plans of areas of specific characteristics. There's something like what the Hell's or Hell's Islands are, as anybody calls it, the Blue Cave and so forth. I think we need to take care of that. And in the end, in fact, I can see that she didn't come in, I couldn't find a fishing port or a supermarket in Komiža. Komiza is the most fishing place on our Adriatic. There are 60 professional fishermen, 120 families live in one way or another with that kind of activity. Komiže Aquatorium accounts for 17% of the sea space of the Croatian Adriatic, and there is no such thing, although it was envisaged even according to what came out in public. It seems to me that some 70 million kunas were planned, and I know it was in the county plans as well. Now it's not in the spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County, but I think the state here should help, that I should, because I see that there are other ports. I hope this isn't about privatising Neptune, and the fact that the new or current owner is bothered by fishing for indigenous life. And I would be glad if Minister Kalmeta hadn't said that only in 2015 the railway between Split and Zagreb will drive for 3 and a half hours. Who lives as dead as ever. I think it's about a decade ago, that's a lot, so here I'm asking him to do it a little faster. Some of the former ideas about modernization predicted this in four years. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76275	How much Fertate's going?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76276	And here it goes. Now it's one, six, seven hours, like when
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76277	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76278	Dear Mr. President, I cannot agree with the statement by the distinguished representative Jurjevic that unfortunately the Republic of Croatia's budget is growing. I will stress that I am happy as a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community that the budget of the Republic of Croatia is growing, and I will be especially happy when it doubles with regard to what it is today, it is already certain that the standard of all Croatian citizens is to be twice as high as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76279	This is more of a fluke of luck, and less of a correction of the accident. For the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, 5 minutes of debate, respected representative Nikola Mak. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review by Finance Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76280	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So I don't think we should challenge further discussions, budget as a budget, everyone always sees it their way. So thank you all for the debate and for those who praised him and for those who criticized him, but I think there are some shifts that are qualitatively good, no matter what political color they were, because it's good and what's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76281	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. First debate on voting and voting on amendments. The debate on the text of the draft budget is over. We are moving on to the applicant's statement and the vote on the amendments tabled. The amendments submitted shall be made by the Proposer. Only the applicant of the amendment and his speech cannot last longer than 2 minutes after the amendment has been made clear. In accordance with Article 166, we have several amendments to the Government before submitting after the deadline, so we need to vote whether they will be discussed and voted on these amendments. I am voting on a proposal to discuss these amendments and to vote on amendments to the Government that have been adopted after the deadline. Who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 89 for, 21 against, and these amendments to these five amendments, the government will discuss and vote. Let's go to the government's amendments first. Amendment one. Minister Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76283	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council! With the amendment, one government only nomotechnically proposes to change the name. So, instead of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 and Project 2008 and 2009, we propose that the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 consists of and then the text goes as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76284	Thank you. I'm opening a debate that only club representatives can participate in. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting Amendment One. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? unanimously with 112 votes for Amendment 1. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76285	Amendment 2. The government proposes from purely technical grounds for the implementation of Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76286	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 105 for, 7 against, Amendment 2 was adopted. Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76287	Amendment 3 is the consequence of the amendment to Amendment 1, so in the name and we propose that the name be agreed with the amendment adopted. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76288	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 3. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 106 for and 7 against and Amendment 3 adopted. Amendment 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76289	Amendment 4 is necessary for the purposes of amendment 5 for the purpose of changing the costs of business and the costs of obtaining non-financial assets. Therefore, in order to be able to implement the technical amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76290	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 4. Who's in? Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 90 for and 24 against, Amendment 4. And Amendment 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76291	Amendment 5 proposes several changes in the division 02-021 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Alliance for National Minorities. We propose to increase the amount of 32 million and 700 thousand kuna by 2 million 300 thousand kuna, so that the total amount is 35 million kuna and the reduction is proposed from the position of the Ministry of Finance in the expenditure on the issue of securities. So we propose to increase that amount by 2 million and 300,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76292	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 5. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 85 for, 29 against, Amendment 5 was adopted. We're done with the government's amendments. Thank you, Minister. Let's get on the table now. First, the National Minority Representatives Club. ... Amendment withdrawn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Second, the representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76293	The government does not accept this problem because it is solved through the PHARE Programme of the European Commission and as part of the project, improving Roma living conditions in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76294	Representative Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76295	Thank you very much. There are 200 Roma families living in the village of Strmec. Last year, last year's budget, I gave the same amendment to edit this settlement, nothing happened in the settlement, and I must stress that this settlement, which is normally in the municipality of Petrian without basic elemental conditions, without drinking water, without electricity in view of nowhere in the budget, had no opportunity to see that the settlement was included. That's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76296	Thank you. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3. Representatives Mate Arlovic and Ljubice Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76297	The government does not accept because we believe the proposed funds are sufficient. They have an annual growth of 14% and funds in the field of protection, promotion and respect for human rights have increased 17% compared to last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76298	Vice-President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76299	Mr. President, Mr. Minister! The exact data you have presented is also true, however, that any new law regulating human rights and freedoms increases the obligations of organisations dealing with the protection and promotion of human rights and freedoms, and in this respect we feel it is necessary to increase the state's resources that would allow these associations to work. I would just like to remind you that at this session we already have two laws such as the Law on Volunteering, the Law on Asylum that opens up new opportunities and new jobs for our associations on the one hand. And on the other hand, the work of these associations is becoming increasingly transparent of our society, thus opening up a space for further control of all forms of manipulation, including, of course, possible forms of bribery and corruption, which is why I ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76300	Thank you. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3. Representatives Mate Arlovic and Ljubice Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76301	The government does not accept because we believe the proposed funds are sufficient. They have an annual growth of 14% and funds in the field of protection, promotion and respect for human rights have increased 17% compared to last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76302	Vice-President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76303	Mr. President, Mr. Minister! The exact data you have presented is also true, however, that any new law regulating human rights and freedoms increases the obligations of organisations dealing with the protection and promotion of human rights and freedoms, and in this respect we feel it is necessary to increase the state's resources that would allow these associations to work. I would just like to remind you that at this session we already have two laws such as the Law on Volunteering, the Law on Asylum that opens up new opportunities and new jobs for our associations on the one hand. And on the other hand, the work of these associations is becoming increasingly transparent of our society, thus opening up a space for further control of all forms of manipulation, including, of course, possible forms of bribery and corruption, which is why I ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76304	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4. also representatives Mate Arlovic and Ljubice Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76305	The government doesn't accept for two reasons. One is that we believe that sufficient resources are provided and another is proposed to remove funds from the ministry's position which is also one of the bearers of the implementation of the media campaign to combat drug abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76306	Vice-President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76307	We certainly suggested that it be removed from this position of this ministry but we don't mind if it finds the Minister of Finance and the Government and another position from which this money will be taken and left to the existing ministry with which we proposed this money. Therefore, it cannot be a reason for the amendment to be rejected. The reason for accepting the amendments lies in the fact that the monster of addiction in the Republic of Croatia related to the use and use of intoxicating drugs is growing and greater, that the growing number of young people who have become addicts. Who, unfortunately, are not only in a situation that needs to be protected but that they should be treated both in temporary deprive institutions and outside institutions, and in such a situation, it is quite clear that these 250 thousand kuna funds to promote the fight against addiction are not sufficient. We've put the stand here and put the weight on the abuse of intoxicating drugs since we have that item. But it's actually about fighting all forms of addiction, including addiction to cigarettes and addiction to alcoholic beverages. That is why we believe that it is simply impossible with this money to meet these needs and it would be good for this amendment to actually be accepted. We're looking for a vote. Or to redistribute, over the next year, these funds are allocated from the budget. It is about protecting one of the fundamental values of the youngest categories of our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76308	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. The IDS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76309	The government does not accept for reasons why we believe that the funds provided for the Office of State Administration will be sufficient, and here a whole new programme is envisaged to be addressed in accordance with the programme of resolving this problem at the level of the entire state. And I don't think it would be a good idea to factor out and solve just one problem like this. ... [[We can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76310	It can't be heard when, when MPs, one part of the MPs are constantly not going to stick to the order. Club, IDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76311	We give up, we give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76312	Amendment 5 withdrawn. We're going to the office of the Ministry of Finance. 6th Amendment of Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76313	The government does not accept this because it considers that the final proposal for a state budget provides sufficient resources in that position for decentralised functions of education, health care, social care and fire departments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76314	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76315	These funds have also been further increased by amending the Law on the financing of local self-government units with increased participation in the income tax of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76316	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76317	So here's the fourth time I've submitted this amendment to increase decentralised funds. The last three times you assured me that there would be sufficient resources that you had planned and rejected the amendments. And then you rebalanced the budget on the items I suggested. Here's me and the fourth time I'm proposing because I don't think there's gonna be enough resources. We'll see in a year who's gonna be right. It was me three times. We'll see who's gonna be the fourth time, and now I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76318	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 7th Representative of the Nenad Stazic? [[/Intruder: Almost.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76319	The government does not accept this because we believe that these funds that have been proposed will be sufficient. The second thing is that we do not accept that the funds are removed from the positions regulated by law, law and all under the special relations agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the aim of the programme to promote transparent inter-state co-operation through the financing of health and cultural life of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is therefore proposed to be removed from that position in order to give a position to encourage Croatian culture in other countries. I think we should try to strengthen both positions, not reduce one to the harm of one Croat to give the national Croatian minority in another country additional funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76320	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76321	Well, Ministers, I can't be surprised at you. Croatians live not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croats live in other countries, too. We have a large number of Croats in Vojvodina. You're saying that... A terrible imbalance has been observed between funds sent to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation, 27 million and 300 thousand kuna to help Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] This is necessary to help them, of course, but other Croats should be helped. And look at this amount I suggested, 2 million kunas so much was given by Racan's government. So when it was Racan's government that could give and you're the government that allegedly takes care of all the Croats. And you should take care of all the Croats. So give as much as Racan's Government has given to the Croats in Vojvodina. At least here's how merciful you are to them. I, I can't, I can't come to myself that you're this one amendment So I can't come to my senses that this is the kind of amendment you refuse. [[The intruders don't understand.]] I'm asking you to do it one more time. I'm, I'm, I'm convinced that if, it's here because of the confusion. [[The intruders don't understand.]] [[Intruder: Peace!]] If you think about it one more time, I'm sure you'll accept that amendment. Because for God's sake, we have to take care of these people, too. Well, we can't ignore their cultural development now, help them in culture, and only take care of the Croats in the Federation. Give it to the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76322	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Representative of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76323	The government doesn't accept. I think that units of local and regional and regional self-government and states need to encourage farmers to, together with the most efficient insurance programme, be the provision of crops to insurance companies. So we think that through this programme, we need to solve this problem, and in this way farmers will get the highest quality and greatest compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76324	Thank you. There is no representative, the applicant of the amendment. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 9. Representatives Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavran?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76325	Well, we can't accept it because once this position is proposed to decrease, the second time it's proposed to rise, and then we don't know in which direction it's supposed to go?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76326	Vice President Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76327	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, you accepted the idea. For years now, these three MPs have been constantly proposing amendments to increase funding for education, culture and science and health in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this time in this budget it is envisaged but only in accordance with an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe that these funds should be further increased to at least the level that is actually given in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order for these funds to be completely transparent and transparent and that they could be valid controls related to their spending and related to their distribution. And that is why we propose that this funding from 27 million and 300 thousand kunas be raised to 35 million and 300 thousand kunas because it is really necessary for these activities in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to rise to the point of saying the minimum necessary level to meet the needs of education, culture, science and health in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in particular in Croatia... That's why we're asking to vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76328	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 9. same representative Arlović, Brdaric, Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76329	I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76330	10th, 10th. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76331	The government does not accept for the reason that the city of Ilock receives funds under the Law on the Area of Special State Care, that the state has waived a hundred percent share in income tax in favour of that city and, ultimately, the basis of the Law on Budget Implementation, instead of units of special state care, the return of income tax on citizens from that area, is made out of a state budget and these are resources that are not seen in the state budget, which are significant resources directed towards units of local self-government. And when summed up with these funds that are based on the fiscal capacities of local self-government units, we believe that these units are getting enough help.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76332	Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76333	This would be excellent if employment in Ilock, Vukovar and many other areas, cities and municipalities of our areas considered undeveloped or considered areas of special state concern would be at least an average employment rate in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, in these places, the unemployment rate is often up to 30% as it is in the area of the Vukovar-Srijem County, which belongs to the City of Ilock. And therefore, the amendment as well as the next amendment to the City of Vukovar is not only sufficient to grant income tax exemptions, but it is necessary and directly to provide additional funding for the work of these units of local self-government in particular to meet the common needs in this area and for a simple reason, because the revenue generated by these cities is not possible to achieve that level which is, in fact, an obligation by law to achieve in all units of local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in order to meet the minimum needs and interests of our citizens. That's why we stay with this amendment and we suggest that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76334	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Eleven of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76335	The government does not accept for the same reasons that it is necessary to note that the City of Vukovar will receive, therefore, entrepreneurs of the City of Vukovar by virtue of the Law on the City of Vukovar additional forty million kuna in 2007, with the result that all that belongs to it is the basis of the Law on the areas of special state care and the basis of that right which is established by the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76336	Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76337	He looks forward to this news that the City of Vukovar will receive a further 40 million kuna, given the incentive to develop entrepreneurship. But we also feel that these funds are necessary. We have now had opportunities when we went to celebrate the anniversary of the fall of Vukovar to see that unfortunately, in Vukovar, not all the ruins that would allow for the restoration or if the restoration of existing facilities is not possible, in fact, in accordance with the spatial plans of the construction of other facilities and other facilities necessary to meet the interests and needs of the citizens of the City of Vukovar and of course further development of the City of Vukovar. That is why they would still stay with this amendment and ask to vote on it, because an additional million and 500 000 kuna are actually relatively small funds but they would be very happy to get them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76338	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 12th Representative of Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76339	The government does not accept because, in accordance with the criteria for the allocation of funds from the state budget, the Varazdin County and the units from the Varazdin County have a stronger fiscal capacity than those provided for by these criteria and have therefore not received funding, and those with mountain-mounted status have, on the other hand, aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76340	Mr. Korenik's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76341	Despite the fact that I hear you, Mr. Minister, I have to say that it is just surprising that only three units of regional self-government in the regional self-government units this year are not meant to receive assistance for the following year. These are the Varazdinska, Krapina-Zagorska and Zadar County. And during the debate I prayed to say the clear criteria of how to make the Varazdin and Krapina-Zagorje County it is my electoral unit do not win, including Zadar after all. If you feel that the Varazdin County is more developed has stronger fiscal capacity than some others, it is unfortunate that the Varazdin County also has a third group of units that belong to a third group of special state care, units of local self-government that fall under the mountainous and mountainous area, and I do not understand on the basis of which elements you refuse to provide assistance to the Varazdin County. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76342	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 13th amendment also serves as a representative of Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76343	The government does not accept for the same reasons as the previous one, and I would like to point out that by the basis of the Law on the implementation of the State budget, income tax return for the areas of the mountainous and mountainous areas is being made out of the state budget, not the budget of the units of local self-government, and these are the funds that are not seen here in the budget, and it certainly strengthens the budget of the local self-government units, and I repeat, for budget assistance, are nevertheless important, the most important fiscal capacities of the local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76344	Mr. Korenik's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76345	Thank you very much. Otherwise, the minister is very loud, and it is heard well, but when these explanations are to be given, then it is somehow quite quiet and self-absorbed. I ask a plea because still Mr. Minister has not told me about the previous nor this amendment, and it is clear to me that there are war-hit counties that have been hit harder and that they need to be helped. But then please explain to me how the other counties are getting, and these two northwestern Croatia are not getting. I think your criteria are quite hollow and I'd like to make a statement about this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76346	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The fourteenth representative of Zvonimir Sabati, Miroslav Cacia and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76347	He's absorbed practically in Amendment Thirteen. Denied, for the same reason he refuses. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76348	Mr. Sabati, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76349	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I'm not going to talk about what my colleague Korenika was talking about. I'll just give you another argument. In 2006, it was from those positions of the Regional Development Fund that amounted to 9 million 108,609, and reduced to 30,283. However, a grant of 3 million 881 333 kuna was abolished in 2006. So, in total, almost 9 million kunas of Krapina-Zagorje County were achieved. Certainly, it is a bit unusual and the fact that only these three counties have not received aid from the Regional Development Fund so that I would like this entire House to declare the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76350	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifteenth representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76351	The government does not accept for the same reasons that I would like to point out that the criteria are clearly defined in Article 35. The law on the implementation of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76352	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76353	So I'll also repeat that it's strange how Krapina-Zagorje County has such fiscal potential that it couldn't get into these criteria so it could get a transfer from the state budget. In fact, counterpart Sabati has already said there has been a major reduction, hence the abolition of transfers and at the same time reductions from nine, over nine million to three million and two hundred funds from the Regional Development Fund. If it is known that these transfers should, in fact, be transferred to municipalities and cities within a 70 per cent amount, knowing the structure of municipalities and cities in Krapina-Zagorje County and their fiscal potential as well as to infrastructure that is in very poor condition and which has actually been renewed and increased precisely from these funds. It is truly unimaginable that such amendments are not accepted, i.e. that the Government itself did not propose not only to abolish but also to increase transfers compared to the year before, given the increase in the budget by more than 8%. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76354	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16. MPs Mato Arlović and representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76355	The government does not accept for the simple reason that Zadar and Zadar County will receive investments through ministries and state-owned enterprises this year at around 870 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76356	Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76357	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. We have here proposed an amendment asking for additional funds for investment in 8 counties, in turn, Ličko-Senj County, Virovitičko-Podravska County, Požeko-Slavon County, Brod-Posavina County, Zadar County, Osijek-Baranja County, Sibenik-Kninska, Vukovar-Srijemska. It is slightly above the average of these average Zadar County, and otherwise all of these other counties fall into a scale of the most underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia and which have now slowly started to develop and remove their difficult situation if we can say so from the crisis and achieve a positive growth and development rate. However, the fact is that this positive growth and development rate is not even such that it could stop the difference between the most developed areas of the Republic of Croatia and these counties, but is still increasing, at the expense of these counties, and in favour of other more developed parts of the Republic of Croatia. And thirdly, the decentralisation that we started, so by amending the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, is not really decentralisation but redistribution of funds and compensation related to the different tax on income tax that is related to the City of Zagreb. The fourth question remains, far more important, and that is that even some concessions through the tax system that allow these counties are difficult to realise for a simple reason because neither such profit nor such income is realised where such income tax concessions and income tax taxes would be of great benefit to taxpayers. Fifthly, it is necessary to provide additional investment resources not only through entrepreneurship zones and through the development of entrepreneurship, but also to local units, i.e. in this case regional self-government, which would allow them to effectively activate production and ine natural resources for further growth and development together with these funds. We therefore propose to further decentralisation and equal and equal development of the Republic of Croatia this means for these counties, as this would be a small step towards further decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia. We suggest we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76358	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17. Representativesplatimir Sabati and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76359	The government does not accept the criteria for the allocation of funds as defined in Article 35. The law on the implementation of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76360	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? No, no, they're gone, no MPs, no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no. Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. [[- What's up, me?]] Here you go. Yeah, yeah. ... No, no, no, go ahead, go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76361	Thank you very much for showing me here after all. I was just talking about Krapina-Zagorian County. The same goes for the Varazdin County. It is truly unusual that only three counties have not received any help from local and regional self-government. We all know that Varazdin County is often valorized by the sudden economic development. However, if you look at the average salaries employed by people in Varazdin County, then you can see that these average salaries are almost at the bottom of the average of the Republic of Croatia. And it must certainly be one of the criteria to provide additional funds to the Varazdin County. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76362	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18th representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76363	The government doesn't accept. So the criteria set out in Article 35 are that I have to make a public note here that Požega County itself is in a very difficult situation because it has made four illegal decisions on borrowing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76364	Representative Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76365	Well, I'm Mr. Minister, and I have to admit, I'm a little surprised by your response to the fact that Požega County has gone against the difficult situation of the anti-legal four decisions. I mean, as far as I know the Croatian public, Požečka County has been brought into a difficult situation thanks to the former mayor and his anti-zaconite borrowing. It is equally known that you have publicly said that you will help Požega County. Unfortunately, you have not helped and I am asking you with this amendment for 162 million kunas which, if the debts of the County Roads of Požega County were paid, the rest of the debts could therefore function normally. This is more about the county which has indeed fallen to the rear by all criteria, so also by social conditions... It's absolutely a county that's in very difficult conditions. [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]] And I ask you once again to help Požega County and accept this amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76366	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the Home Office position. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Amendment 19. Representatives Mate Arlović and Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76367	The amendment is not accepted. The Police Administration building in Brod-Posavina will begin to be built next year through a model of public-private partnership or through operational Leasing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76368	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I am pleased, and especially to the public of Brod-Posavina County if the building of the Police Administration will indeed be built, built and probably built over the coming years. If it's to believe what you said I'm withdrawing the amendment. But we expect the work to start to secure the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76370	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 20. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76371	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the ministry plans to work 5 police administrations and 19 police stations through this model as I said in the previous amendment through a private-public partnership or through operational lying.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76372	There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't make it. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Deputy Minister Jadranka Kosor. Representatives Ivica Pančić and Mato Gavran. Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76373	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. It refers to support for captive and missing programmes. We believe that, based on the implementation of the budget for the first 8 and 9 months of this year, these funds are more than sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76374	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76375	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, unlike you, we feel the opposite. We have asked for a minimum increase in funding of all additional million kunas in order to address this extremely sensitive issue, and this is about searching for prisoners and missing persons as soon as possible. But by abolishing the government office, it is obvious that the intensity of these activities is reduced. These funds are indeed minimal and should help better and better quality work of the competent administration when you have not already accepted our proposals to remain the government's Office for Detained and Missing. I regret to inform you to stay with your proposal or attitude. I urge you once again to change your mind and therefore I demand a vote. I'm looking for support, first of all, from my colleagues in the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76376	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 22, same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76377	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. It's not true that the work on the search for the prisoners and the missing has disappeared, but I'm going to bring the information here, here's why the government doesn't accept this amendment. That over the past period, therefore in the term of office of this government we have done more than 260 test excavations, that we have found eight mass graves, so 6 in the past period and two just recently in the area of Plitvice Lakes. The funds mentioned here therefore relate precisely to the expenses of the daily and the fees to participants in the exhumation process and to the implementation of the agreement with the International Commission for Missing Persons. Therefore, the amount of nearly 7 million kuna is sufficient according to all our estimates.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76378	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76379	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, we have heard from your mouth down the road that one of your government's top priorities is learning the truth about the prisoner and the missing. Since the Homeland War, 15 years have passed, unfortunately as much time goes by, the less likely we'll find out the real truth about many of our comrades, many of the civilian victims of the Homeland War. I think it's the biggest tragedy of all families when they don't know after so many years of waiting and searching where their favorites are. You've secured funds at the level this year. We believe that, over time, we really need to intensify these activities, and therefore we have asked for an increase of these funds from a symbolic 2 million kuna, which is irrelevant to this budget, does not affect the total amount more, and therefore we simply appeal to all those who suffer daily when they welcome the truth about their loved ones, to think again and support this proposal. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76380	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23, same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76381	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. It is about the position of one-time law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families where we envisioned the amount of 26 million 175 thousand kuna. These funds are therefore intended for one-off rights. I will remind you that just from these positions and this year we bought cars for 100% disabled first group, total of 301 cars. I remind you that we bought cars for 100% disabled first group who had the right to do so under the previous law, but the previous government did not want to fulfil that obligation. So we have fulfilled our obligation and so is that position used amongst others and so on. one-time cash aid to Croatian defenders. So far they've received 909 in this term. I would like to remind you that this single-right institution is not actually in the past term, nor envisaged, and that, for example, for this purpose, only by the decision of the Minister in 2001, 150 thousand kuna is secured, or paid, and here we are predicting for the next year 26 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76382	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76383	Thank you very much. Well, you see, Madam Minister, it is really illogical for you to mention at the end of your term what the former government was doing. It will likely happen very soon that a new government will tell you by the same method. It's illogical, I hope that the protection of the integrity of the Homeland War not only remains in the declarative statements but in the real ones. This is indeed a very sensitive area, a very difficult area, and when it comes to these planned funds, it is illogical to plan for this year an amount of €26 million while in 2005 this amount was €35 million. We don't see any reason for such a reduction, a drastic reduction. In our court, this best confirms a voluntary approach to budget planning because it is illogical that these funds are being re-planned in 2009. For these very reasons, trying and helping our comrades, Croatian defenders and members of their families, I am asking for a vote, but also a real relationship with the major problems of Croatian defenders and members of their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76384	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24 amendments, also the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76385	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. It is about providing for 2 million and 900 thousand kuna next year for the purchase of orthopaedic and other medical aids. Of course, these projections were based on the implementation of the budget for this year, i.e. the procurement of orthopaedic and other medical aids for Croatian military disabled persons mostly the first group of 100% physical damage, so I have to remind the MP that they will probably compare again, that, for example, in 2001 and 2000, no kuna was spent for this purpose. The government considers this to be a sufficient amount and does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76386	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76387	Thank you very much. You see, Madam Secretary, looking at the mirror all the time, we don't see where we're going. It is illogical to call again for 2001, this is about the 2007 budget, and it is logical that every day we live better and better, all of us, and so are the disabled of the Homeland War. The only thing we can really help them with their daily compassion is to provide enough financial resources to ensure that the most difficult people with disabilities have the most quality orthopaedic tools and that they end up living the rest of their lives. They selflessly gave themselves, and we invite you not to look at the activities of the last government, but to actively confirm where you're taking us, the whole state, but all the disabled. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76388	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76389	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. It is a rehabilitation of Croatian military disabled people in health resorts where we envisioned a million kuna as well as in previous years. Namely, this is the budgetary position that we introduced only in this government, this possibility and this activity is not envisaged before the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in 2005. I must say that, here in the first half of this year 18 Croatian wartime disabled people were rehabilitated in the hospital in Krapina spas, then 13 in the special hospital for the medical rehabilitation of the Varazdin spa, 62 in the Daruvar spas. Of course, the program for this year isn't complete. So, quite enough resources according to the number of people with disabilities who appear for this program, therefore, used medical rehabilitation in health care facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76390	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76391	Thank you very much. In the daily conversation with many comrades, the disabled I get different information and it was a motive for my colleague Pancic and I, but I think that's what makes it a bar in our club, and I believe the rest of us can't show it. With this or this amount of protection of our comrades, we cannot be satisfied. Neither are those whom this plan applies to, for rehabilitation...... So I'd like a colleague of Djakic to get your strengths together by protecting and representing the largest population to support this proposal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A million kunas for rehabilitation for the whole year on such a large number of our disabled comrades is not only insufficient but ridiculous. The needs are far greater, at the end of this daily...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76392	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76393	...we're picking up...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76394	No, it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76395	That's what we see every day. I ask you to at least this way when we can't help others to all those in such a position, who need the necessary rehabilitation to get optimal financial resources. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76396	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment next, that's 26, same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76397	Mr. President, the government does not accept the amendment of MPs Ivica Pancic and Mate Gavran. It is about the position envisaged for the employment of Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. It's so-called. target group. Since the start of the mandate, the government has increased its employment funds by 5 million kuna each year. Last year it was, or in 2006, 35 million. This year, therefore, in the 2007 budget, we are increasing that position by 5 million kuna. So, a total for hiring Croatian defenders 40 million kuna. I must also remind myself that in less than 3 years, we have hired more than 5,000 Croatian defenders, that about 120 Croatian defence cooperatives have been established with the support of the ministry and that employment is treated as one of the most important programmes and government, but of course also the resolution ministry. I'll also compare, of course, we have five measures today. It was until 2004. Three, and as far as the funds are concerned, here's what I'm saying, in 2007. 40 million kuna, for example in 2001. 8 million and 453 thousand kuna of which 5 million 160 thousand kuna is directed to the Croatian Employment Service. So much for the employment of Croatian defenders, therefore, the government feels that these are sufficient funds because they are being increased and we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76398	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76399	Thank you very much. Well, you see, Madam Minister, in 2001 if I'm not mistaken, the budget, the state budget was 50 billion kuna. This year we plan to realize it with 108 billion kunas for next year. It's a 100 percent increase, and such an increase is not visible in this division. In the end, all the efforts you have made have not received the desired result at least when it comes to the employment of Croatian defenders, one of the most sensitive populations. Unfortunately, because of the educational structure, because of their qualification structure, many will never again come into the field of work by this principle. While we were at war, some of the factories were holed up, some of them were bailing out jobs. The only thing we can help bring our comrades back to the field of work again is to secure sufficient financial resources. In our court, this plan is not enough and in this line of growth many of our comrades will never really be able to work again with their knowledge, their mara, their efforts to ensure better living and working conditions for themselves and their families. I can't simply understand so much insolence when it comes to here...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76400	Oh, please don't insult me. So please, President, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76401	...returning back into the sphere of work and looking for...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76402	Insolence? So please don't insult us. Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76403	Please. Please. You have to argue so you don't challenge someone else. Here you go. ... It doesn't, but it doesn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76404	... I thank all those who help me not to hear, but I will speak loud enough here at least that this left-hand side hears me well what I'm saying. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76405	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76406	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76407	He didn't get the necessary majority. 27, also representing Ivica Pancic and Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76408	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. In 2005, we brought a new National Program of Psychosocial and Health Assistance to participants and victims of the Homeland War. We have also established PSP centres in Croatia in a new way. Therefore, the obligation under the law of all units of local administration, i.e. self-government, is to provide space. I have to say, it's not like that everywhere. For example, we have big problems in Zagreb with providing such a space because the City of Zagreb does not react, but we are still achieving our programmes. Here, in the first few months of this year, our trained people working in our PSP centres have carried out 148 thousand 285 interventions, so in all cases when Croatian defenders or members of their families have a need for advice, for intervention, for help, therefore this programme continues and, of course, the amount we have foreseen is almost 13 million kuna only for the psychosocial assistance programme and of course we will not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76409	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76410	Thank you very much. Well, I'm particularly pleased, Madam Minister, to continue with these activities, to provide the necessary psychosocial assistance to all those who need it. I am pleased on behalf of all those who have consumed these services, and you have told them that there are 148 thousand, that they are allowed at least in easier ways to overcome all the problems facing and trauma from the Homeland War. However, it is illogical that the planned funds remain at the level last year, i.e. this year, and we know that the centres for psychosocial assistance at the level of all our counties are almost not teamed with the necessary experts or are adequately equipped. Respecting the fact that here is an increasing number of PTSD patients, we consider these funds insufficient and therefore we have sought only 2 million and 100 thousand kuna increases which we believe is enough to make the growth line optimal in this year and to meet the growing needs of many Homeland War fighters in a minimum. I ask you once again, when we can't be in the field of work, in the field of employment, to provide enough resources to at least secure in this other sense, so that we can welcome a brighter future as easily as possible. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76411	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 28th amendment, also to MPs Pancic and Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76412	Mr. President, the government is not going to accept this amendment because the funds that we have provided for marking the site of mass graves from the Homeland War 2 million 205,000 kuna are sufficient for our plans and programmes. The following year we plan to mark several places of mass graves, for example in Slunj, Kostrići,... , Strmackka, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, these are often complicated processes and jobs, unfortunately, because of the problems of land expropriation, etc., etc. However, since we have a plan to mark the place of mass graves we have made in four years, so we stick to that plan and in the following year with this amount of 2 million 205 thousand kuna, of course we will mark the decent places we planned. I will say, for example, that in 2002 only one place of mass grave was marked, at the end of the term of last government, of course something more, but we paid for it in 2004. The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76413	Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76414	Thank you very much. Well, it would be strange if the government would accept at least one of these amendments. This is one of the most sensitive areas. At the beginning, we heard, and we all know that, unfortunately, a large number of mass graves have not been discovered. Walking this intensity of mass grave marking will take us 100 years to mark all mass graves. Unfortunately, the government and in this draft budget are reducing funds compared to 2005 which means that the largest number of mass graves will remain unmarked, and those who have finally realized where they ended tragically their loved ones will continue to wait for the mercy of this government, and I hope not long. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76415	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76416	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. It's a youth policy of 2 million 943 thousand kuna. This is also according to the implementation of the budget so far, i.e. the current budgets enough, but of course I would like to point out that the implementation of the different measures from the national programme of action for young people is carried out through other ministries, I would say all ministries, therefore it is not just a position in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76417	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76418	Can I just hear an explanation for this second part of the amendment to change the name of the items.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76420	I gave an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76421	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76422	Well, there's no controversy, but I didn't get an explanation for the full amendment. So my amendment consists of two parts. Because it's like the first thing that's so rude and it's talking about you. So, first it's incorrect and you haven't studied the budget well, but the National Youth Action Programme is not mentioned, but in no single ministry, it's nowhere to be found. That's the first one. Secondly, it is not mentioned in your ministry in which a unanimous decision by this Croatian Parliament is responsible for ensuring implementation. Third, according to the national programme of action for young people adopted at the end of last year, it is necessary to ensure between 5 and 7 million kuna each year. As it stands out for national programmes by other ministries then it is obvious for you who are in charge of coordinating the implementation that these 2 million 900 thousand kunas you have proposed will not be enough. And I suggested that the item should just change the term "youth policy" to "implementation of the national programme for youth" because you very doubtfully understand this concept of youth policy, so once you explained to me that the purchase of a computer for families with eight and more children also falls into youth policy and some other things, simply to name things by name and not to spread the truth here anymore. I beg the vote therefore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76423	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 30th representative of Ivica Pančić and Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76424	Mr. President, the government will not accept this amendment. It is, in fact, the implementation of measures of family and population policy where we envisioned an amount of 4 million 585 thousand kuna. However, of course everyone is clear, I believe that even in the Croatian Parliament, since I believe you have studied the budget that concerns national population policies, so the new document proposed by the Government also provides for 200 million kunas for additional children and 239 million, or something more for additional maternity benefits. Therefore, these are all with 240 million which are foreseen for free books at the positions of the Ministry of Science and Education funds that are foreseen for the implementation of the measures of family and population policy. So these 4 million 585 grand we've further predicted here, of course, is not everything. Therefore, for all these reasons, the Government cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76425	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76426	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, we are all aware that this budget for 2007 is 13% higher. This is quite an asset, but in this item, by respecting all the reasons you have given, we simply do not understand that the budget item is less than 2005. Since nothing has changed in our court on this plan over these past years, this proposal could be read as a certain give-up or halt in the implementation of active population policy. But that's the best thing he's saying about the course we're going to. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76427	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 31st representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76428	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. The structure of this activity has been established by the Ministry of Finance. Since the funds are allocated through the tender, it is not possible to predict and know exactly the number of quality projects. The amount of planned funds, the announcement of this activity for 2007 is sufficient for the implementation of planned programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76429	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76430	Dear Minister and Vice President! I didn't say the funds weren't enough. I can understand in some ways that you reject amendments that require an increase but here I'm not asking for an increase in any means whatsoever. I just want the funds to be called the names for which they are. There are two motives. First, we already had that distribution up to 2 years ago in each Croatian budget. And the second argument is therefore what the Ombudsman asked for children to know exactly what the funds for children are that reports can be given just as we do according to the "youth" program. And these demands from the European Commission need to know exactly what our funds are for young people. I agree that you distribute it not necessarily as I suggested but simply that we know what it is for and how much we spend on programmes for children and young people because they are requests from both the UN and other international institutions towards Croatia. And on the other hand, the argument that it can't be done like that doesn't stand because it was and so exists in a number of other ministries separated. I would really ask that this amendment be accepted because there is neither an increase in funds nor anything, but simply to know how much money is available for individual projects to also see priorities. I mean, if we're talking about a transparent budget, then I think you all have to agree with this amendment. Repeat, the team is no longer asking for an increase in financial resources. I hope you've changed your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76431	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 32nd Representative Ivica Pančić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76432	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. In fact, it is the position of Projects for multi-member families amounting to a million 430 thousand kuna. I would like to say that we have launched care for multi-member families as a special project within the framework of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, of course in 2004. In this context we provided free books for primary and secondary school students with eight and more children. Since here, for the next year we have provided free books for all students who are covered by compulsory education, this large part of this amount will not be spent on obtaining books but on supporting other projects. For example, I'm going to say one association "8 plus". There are several who take care of families with eight and more children. There are also those who care for families with four children. But here's the association that's here and now it's funded from these projects it's been getting since 2003 support. I repeat, and I would like to say that here is the work of the last government of this association, or these projects have not received any kuna either, and then the Government cannot accept this amendment because the funds provided for are sufficient for our project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76433	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76434	Thank you very much. Well, you see, Madam Minister, a lot of projects have been launched during your government. But the effects of these measures are best known by those who are directly concerned. One of the measures you often like to highlight is projects for multi-member families. The amount of millions and 430 thousand kuna is only symbolic in our court and by the court of all users is more than insufficient. Here, declaratively and conveniently speaking of great care and concern for this population, but there is no or sufficient concern for you. For these very reasons, we would like to believe that the Government is not giving up and not giving up on the principle policy that it has been declaring all along we call once again on you to consider this proposal. It is indeed symbolic means, and it will be of great benefit to a number of family members. Finally, it is on the trail and calls for population policy to be increased and to be easier for multi-member families in the full sense of the word but also for real daily life. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76435	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 33rd representative of Ivica Pančić and Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76436	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. The government has launched a number of new and large projects to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence. Much of this will also be seen in 2007 from the change in legislation to the provision of a system-based or system-based financing model, especially associations and shelters dealing with victims of violence. I would like to mention that in this year too, in the Employment Action Plan, we have, for example, launched a whole new plan for the employment of women victims of violence so that our concern for victims of violence also goes through several positions or through several ministries. As for the concern of associations, about women victims of violence here, they can mention the Autonomous Women's House in Zagreb that would certainly have shut down if there had been no additional interventions and government in this year and last year. Therefore, the government also shows from the funds of the current stock, so it intervenes whenever necessary and when necessary. But as far as the problem with the Autonomous Women's House in Zagreb is concerned, I would like to remind myself that this very association has been in an inexplicable situation because the city authorities have published the address of this association, or this autonomous women's house and here, until today, there has been no adequate solution and the government has stepped in, intervened and further along with the positions of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity I repeat and from the funds of the current stock. Therefore, we will go with these projects and in the following year be assured and the Government of course does not accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76437	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76438	Thank you very much. So he is particularly looking forward to knowing that the government is planning to fund all these new projects that it is launching in this pre-election year with a million and 525 thousand kuna. I am pleased that you are helping the city of Zagreb and the safe house in Zagreb but, fortunately, Zagreb had no war and no such consequences of the war that left severe traces in those areas where the war was raging. Unfortunately, domestic violence is a daily phenomenon and is increasingly escalating. The amount of a million and 525 thousand kuna, Madam Minister, is more than insufficient for any more serious project but in the draft, in an idea solution and where in real implementation. And in this way you may best confirm real care for the Homeland War, care for the protection of victims of violence or victims of violence. You're talking best about the protection and integrity of the Homeland War, I repeat, because none of these eleven amendments that had symbolic amounts, unfortunately, you don't want to accept. The best judgment will be brought to this by our fellow citizens. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76439	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship 34th Amendment, MP Marin Jurjevic. State Secretary Vladimir Vrankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76440	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that small shipbuilding activities with resources are secured under the boat construction dynamics contract. As regards the activities of shipbuilding subsidies the funds are also planned towards dynamics... ships and restructure funds are secured through credit lines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76441	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76442	Mr. Secretary of State, I just can't believe it. Perhaps you are confused, because I cannot believe that the Government has rejected this amendment given the importance of Croatian shipbuilding and the development of small shipbuilding and given the government's declaration of support for shipbuilding. And you see, negative business results in shipbuilding are primarily the result of the work of poor desperate administrations and desperate supervisory committees that have made disastrous and harmful decisions by the work of these traffickers and for the benefit of some individuals. It would make sense to me that a government that didn't come to reconstruction for the election year, I guess now ensures that these smudges function normally, that the more the team functions normally, the more the ship is actually our only global product that participates most in the downside of the exchange. If this continues, I fear that Croatian shipbuilding will be destroyed, the government is responsible for it, does nothing, and it seems to me that this kind of attitude towards shipbuilding actually shows what the real relationship is and to those who work there and I assure you that a large part of the people living by the sea is. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76443	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 35. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76444	Thank you, Mr. President. It is also not accepted because the activities of shipbuilding subsidies are planned in the amount of 382 million and 200 thousand kunas sufficient to monitor the dynamics of shipbuilding. So the part needed to restructure and restructure shipbuilding is secured through credit lines for which state guarantees have been issued.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76445	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76446	Well, understandably, we are not satisfied with this explanation, but the fact is that this year, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has provided 398 million kuna for these activities in the field of shipbuilding. This is about 50 million kunas less than last year and will certainly be more economic activity in the construction of ships than it was this year in 2006 and then we believe that this item should be raised for 2007 to the level of the 2006 item when the note of shipbuilding was directed and 4.2 billion kunas, billions and 700 million kunas in Rijeka, a billion and 700 million kunas in Split, 220 million in Kraljevica, 640 million kuna BrodoTrogir. Unfortunately, the Oilman did not get a single kuna out of all of that. So, what are we looking for? To keep the subsidies in 2007 at the 2006 subsidy level, otherwise the secretary of state will find us all in trouble together.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76447	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 36th Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76448	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted since the funds for entrepreneurship zones, the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructures are secured in the amount of 88 million kuna and covers all counties or entrepreneurship zones. In 2006 funds amounting to 5 million and 514 thousand kuna were allocated to the area of Međimurje County for entrepreneurship zones. Therefore, further investment in entrepreneurial zones in Međimurje County can be expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76449	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76450	Thank you, Mr. President. I expected this explanation. However, I wrote this amendment on purpose that a relationship of 10 million kuna applies to the County of Međimurje precisely because this government does not apply equally to all local and regional units, it is not acting as a Croatian government but as a HDZ government and in this election year we are aware that in those regions or those municipalities and cities where HDZ does not participate in the government will be abolished and that was the reason I wrote such an amendment, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76451	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 37th Amendment of Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76452	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before. Just to add that in 2006 funds amounting to 7 million and 270 thousand kuna were allocated to the Varazdin County area for entrepreneurial zones. Therefore, further investment in the same county can be expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76453	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76454	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, I have a feeling that there are prejudices in the Croatian government towards Varazdin County and just to point out. The average salary in our county is about 25% lower than in other parts of Croatia. About 12% are lower average pensions than in other parts of Croatia. It predominates a working-active economy, textiles, skin, shoes and other processing industry and several projects of the economic zone are currently in the realization phase. Without the help of the state, nothing will come true. However, if it depends on an official in Zagreb who is often party-oriented, none of it. That's why I asked, because of the towns of Ivanac, Ludbreg, Novi Marof, municipalities like the Martian, the Princess, the Srećinac, but I can see that there is obviously no desire and that he wants to volunteer. That's exactly why I'm asking for a plea.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76455	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 38th Representative Zlatko Koračević?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76456	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is also not accepted for the same reasons as before. Just one more addition. In 2006, funds amounting to 425 thousand kuna were allocated to the Ludbreg Entrepreneurial Zone. So together I repeat once again in Varazdin County 7 million and 270 thousand kuna... And therefore further investment in the Međimurje County entrepreneurship zone can be expected. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: Here you go. Peace, please!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76457	Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76458	Thank you very much. One amendment to the Secretary of State. The amendment applies to the Varazdin County You probably meant Varazdinsk. [[Invader: Varazdinska, yes, excuse me, in Varazdinska.]] So look for the Ludbreg Entrepreg Zone I had an amendment for the 2006 budget as well. The amount was 2 million, which is not enough anyway for that entrepreneurial zone. Here you yourself have said that 400 thousand were given and in the explanation of the Minister on my amendment for 2006 it was said that it was entirely composed or in place. Two million and four hundred thousand is a big difference. I believe, not to believe, but surely that same story will happen this year, so I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76459	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 39th Representative Sima Lučina?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76460	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's the same explanation. In 2006 only the supplement, for the Split-Dalmatin County area, was allocated to entrepreneurship zones of 4 million and 820 thousand kuna. So it's going at the same pace and it's expected that in 2007, it's going to apply to the area in question, and it's going to get some funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76461	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76462	I understand it all together, but I don't understand one other thing. Since in such a way that Croatia has not been evenly developed so in certain regions, the subregion is not the same. If you take the situation of Sinj and Sinjska krajina and the current state of the economy now in Sinj, I think the government should take care of the fact that funding, such a type of financing of entrepreneurship zones should also be done on a more even basis, on a more balanced development. So if you take that zone to Buzovac, it's, what you can say is investment space, a project that means life not only for Sinj but also for the region of Sinj. Since some negotiations have also been held, talks have been conducted and since they have received some guarantees in Sinj that something will be but nowhere has it been written. What my colleagues said before, I hope it's not really the classic story again that in Sinj, the HDZ is not in power, then they don't need money and they don't need it, and they can handle it on their own. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76463	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 40th Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76464	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's the same, same explanation. The amendment is not accepted. For the Ivanec zone, 500 thousand kuna was given in this year 2006. The total county of Varazdinska 7 million kuna means and continues with the same dynamics in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76465	Representative Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76466	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary of State from the Budget taught with the experience from the 2006 budget, it is not clear that the entrepreneurial zone in Ivanac will be supported by a million and 600 thousand kuna. I'm asking the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76467	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 41st Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76468	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation that in Zadar County for entrepreneurship zones the funds amounting to 7 million kuna 400 thousand have been allocated. And as for the Galovac municipality, unfortunately... in 2006 no application and approval was submitted at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope that they will prepare all the necessary papers and instruct them to report to the competition that will be announced in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76469	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76470	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Municipality of Galovac is as one of the poorest municipalities with the smallest budget is known probably not only in Zadar County but also wider and indeed them, and they are also aware that income tax will remain units of local self-government will not be able to satisfy anything because they simply do not have. So raising an entrepreneurial zone is the only way that these municipalities and those people who live there in some way become one normal environment and try to get them to participate in that, in the fact that income tax will be left to local self-government. Therefore, they have run for office but have never received any funds from neither the state nor the county, and I think it is time that you cannot or have not accepted this amendment to take care of Galovac municipality and these people and I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76471	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76472	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that 5 million kuna for beginner entrepreneurs, female and youth entrepreneurship has just been provided for the activity and promotion of target groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76473	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76474	If that's the case, then why doesn't it say so? From year to year, the means to encourage entrepreneurship among beginners and young entrepreneurs are reduced only because you have stuck it all up and dumbed up in one sublime item called the promotion of target groups of society. The same goes for encouraging women's entrepreneurship. And you can say whatever you want, but it says something else. And therefore, in order to secure funds for beginners and young entrepreneurs and women entrepreneurs, since I am not looking for any new funds. Then I ask that you just write it in the budget. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76475	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 43. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76476	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. ... 1264 pensions and pension incomes are proposed to increase by a billion, a billion and 352 million kuna, which would represent an increase of around 5.10% without giving reasons for such an increase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The funds planned for the above-mentioned activity were increased compared to 2006 in line with the budget projections of the State budget for the medium term and it is not possible to respond or respond to the amendment but is rejected as unfounded since the proposal does not even contain a possible explanation of the proposed increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76477	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76478	I have to say, I'm really surprised by this explanation. The more the Croatian state at this time, Mr. Secretary of State, 336 thousand pensioners have the same internship, the same work, the same payments up to 1000 kuna lower pensions than their colleagues who retired earlier. And you don't recognize it as a problem and you claim that further explanation is needed in relation to what is required in the amendment. For these 336 000 pensioners, there is a solution. We gave you the bill. We gave the model that was based on quality analysis calculations and the money for it exists. One-and-a-half percent we said take off every position or make a deficit. We're below the master criteria. Make it a deficit. Get rid of the pensioner's problem in this country. You can do it, but you don't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76479	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 44. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76480	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposal to add word and Christmas card to the activities of the rest of the pensions is physical damage and other people's help and it is added to it by word and Christmas, and the funds increase by 150 million kuna in the name of Christmas are rejected as unfounded. In this respect, the right to the Christmas card of pensioners for the next financial year is not governed by a special law governing the payment of the Christmas card to the burden of the state budget, nor are the funds for the payment of the goddess being secured from the revenues of the state budget. The Institute of Christmas will be provided with payment in 2006 through funds from the capital fund, not from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76481	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76482	I think the explanation you gave is actually a disastrous decision and I'm convinced that the stakes when they find out what it's about. It's a Christmas Eve that's not for next year. We've got her this year. We're asking him to enter the budget. No capital funds. This year he's gone, next year he's gone. You guys know what that means? That means you admit that it's a trick, a pre-election trick, about giving that is one-time, not a permanent right that we stand for. So, find your place in the budget for this and for all the coming years. Peacemaking is an integral part of work activities. If paid to the workers, they can be paid to the pensioners. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76483	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. We're going to the position of the Ministry of Culture. Representative Milanka Opačić. Minister Bozo Bishop. Amendment of the 45th Parliament of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76484	Thank you very much. It's unacceptable. Over the years, the Ministry of Culture has funded the reconstruction of buildings in which the city's Požega Museum is located, and the continuation of the renewal of the Law on the financing of public needs in the culture of programmes is being considered and proposed by the Council for Cultural Goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76485	Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76486	Well, look, you promoted this budget as a budget that goes to the even development of Croatia. I'd say that's not exactly the case for Požega County and Požega County. I think it was necessary to allocate additional funds to the Požega City Museum the more we took part the other day in the promotion of a film about the cultural heritage of Slavonia, where there is a good part of the material, so cultural heritage just recorded in Požega. So unless it's invested in the Požega City Museum, I don't think maybe in a few years we'll be able to admire the cultural heritage of Požega and Slavonia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76487	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 46th representative of Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76488	It's unacceptable. The reconstruction and rehabilitation of the City Library in Požega as well as all objects of culture of major objects in Požega The Ministry of Culture has been financially following for many years from its jurisdiction, and by the basis of the Library Act even regularly finance and program acquisitions, the parent activity of the booklet, and in the follow-up to the renewal and foundation of the Law on the financing of public needs in culture is considering and proposing the Commission for Investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76489	Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76490	So this is already the third amendment that has been rejected when it comes to Požega and Požega County and I can only conclude that this one county is an unwanted child of this government and that simply no lip will go to any project of Požega and Požega-Slavon County, primarily for the benefit of its citizens. I am sorry that you rejected the amendment to invest in the City of Požega library and all I have left to appeal to the conscience of all those MPs who come from Slavonia and Baranja and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76491	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Jelena Pavić Vukicevic, Marija Lugarić, Ivo Josipovic, Nenad Stazić, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76492	It's unacceptable. The city of Zagreb took the obligation to co-finance the construction of the museum through the signing of an agreement on the construction of the Museum of Contemporary Art.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76493	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76494	Oh, yes, my ministers! Zagreb has taken the obligation to co-finance the construction of the Museum of Contemporary Art along with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government concluded a co-financing agreement with Zagreb, and then took 800 million kuna and transferred it to the state budget. So, first you agree with Zagreb that you will do something together and then take 800 million kuna to that Zagreb. Not Zagreb, Zagreb! Now that you've taken 800 million kunas from them, give them back 30 million kunas. Do not return to them, but invest in the construction of the Museum of Contemporary Art, because this is the state project. Well, it's not just the Zagreb project, because this is the question of when the museum will be completed and whether it will be completed at all. Or explain to the cultural public of Croatia that you will not. You took money for that museum. You don't give any other money. So you don't need the museum. You won't. So call a press conference at the ministry and tell me as culture minister I object to the construction of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Croatia and do not give for that money while I am a minister and while this government in the power of the museum will not be. Say it. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76495	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 48th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76496	It's unacceptable. It's a program to resuscitate the cinema... It has already been called on to propose a public needs programme for 2007 and will be discussed in the framework of regular programmes of the Ministry of Culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76497	Representative Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76498	Thank you very much. Yeah, but he's been reported to me for two years at the office of the Ministry of Culture. It is a building that was practically refurbished into a multi-purpose building where there would be several levels and several types of cultural activities and activities. It's an island that simply requires such cultural content. I think it's the funds that are the initial assets because the other part of the funds would secure its own resources from the municipality and I think that these funds should find their place in the projection for 2007 because there's no reason not to. But since you're not accepted, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76499	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 49th Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76500	He doesn't accept. The Ministry of Culture is responsible only for protected areas. The projected funds of one million kuna from the ministry's position are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76501	Representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76502	Dear Mr. Minister, this item provides for 0 kuna, and that's in your ministry. I would like to point out that the algae caulerpa is the greatest evil for the Adriatic submersible, especially two species of caulerpa tacefolia and caulerpa rasmosa. I would also like to point out that this monster has been affected by a submarine in Cavtat, Dubrovnik, Mljet, in the Hell Islands, so the area of Hvar, Pelješac, Barbatski channel, Rab, Malinska, Kornati islands, so two national parks Mljet and the Kornati islands. It's this algae that grows so it destroys all living organisms because it grows in dense settlements. Here Rab managed to do something to contain it, but indeed, if it continues, it has arrived from the Red Sea to the Adriatic, if this continues to really threaten the threat of the complete Adriatic submersion of the Croatian Adriatic Sea being destroyed. I find it incomprehensible, incomprehensible that there are 0 kunas here, there's a million kuna item, that's the next amendment. It's really small. Nothing, nothing. You know this well that we have given up protecting the Croatian submarine, the Croatian Adriatic, which is quite a crime compared to what can happen. And the funds I'm proposing, 15 million in all of this is a drop in the sea, literally, in the Adriatic Sea. I'm proposing a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76503	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 50th was also the representative of Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76504	It's unacceptable. Given the current scientific and professional knowledge relating to the invasive species of caulerpa and its spread on the Adriatic, and since the Ministry of Culture is also working together in this year, it has also allocated funds to the Institute for Oceanography and Fisheries in Split, and since the Ministry of Culture is responsible only for protected areas, we consider that the funds provided in the position are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76505	Representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76506	I have to say, I'm surprised to hear you say that's enough resources. That sounds like a certain kind of cynicism versus a threat that threatens. It's no political matter at all. This is something else entirely. It is indeed a problem that is the problem of all people living not only on the coast, on the coast, on the islands, but in Croatia to protect our submarine. We know what tourism means, we know what fishing means, we know what our sea means. Help the Oceanographic Institute in Split to give him more than a million kunas. If that's not you, so you're the minister, I don't know, deal with the government, influence the prime minister, do something. But when everything is summed up, a million kunas are given. It's real, I don't know. It's so amazing that it's better that you didn't give anything. Here, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76507	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 51st representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76508	It's unacceptable. The Ministry of Culture did not receive a proposal for that programme on the establishment of the Museum of Mines in the Murski center because in any case, the previous opinion of the Croatian Museum Council is needed, as well as all conditions met by the Museums Act in order to build a museum.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76509	Representative Dagica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76510	The town of Mursko Sredsce is a city in its long history and mining town, it draws and oil, coal is being dug up, and today it is now wanted that data on the city's past and its surroundings are actually being preserved through the Mining Museum. At this point, a request may not be made yet, but it is planned to do so in the following year, as two mining separators are planned to be arranged in the museum space, and in this sense, the necessary actions have already been made and we expect the Ministry to be involved in this because this is also the history of Croatia's mining. I would still ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76511	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 52. Representatives Jelena Pavić Vukičević, Marija Lugarić, Ivo Josipovic, Nenad Stazić and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76512	It's unacceptable. Under the Law on Theatre, the city is obliged as co-founder of the financing of the Croatian National Theatre of 49%.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76513	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76514	This is what we ministers all know is the obligation of Zagreb to co-finance HNK under a contract with the government. But we also know that the full amount of income tax has been moved to Shuker's cash register, directly into the budget. So Zagreb lost 800 million kuna. So what's the HNK funding now? From what? Well, it's not the HNK City Theatre. The founder of the CNK is the Republic of Croatia. And when the contract was concluded there were one conditions of business in the City of Zagreb, he had some guaranteed income. Now that that contract is to be fulfilled, you've removed his income. And by rejecting this amendment you are indeed questioning the possibility of further action of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb. You, if the City of Zagreb doesn't have money, probably won't have any money, the HNK won't be able to work. I am sure that all the fans of the theatre in this House, Mrs. Jagoda Maja Martincevic, Professor Selen will vote in favour of this amendment and allow HNK to get the funds to work further. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76515	Thank you very much. The statue of the Greek athlete, as you probably know, was found between the islands of Veleovo Jula and the islet Kozjak in the Losinj aquarium and by all rules it belongs to him permanently when, clearly, the conditions in the city of Losinj are ensured. The town of Losinj has secured a very valuable and attractive building in the very center of Losinj. There is a need for documentation to be made into a museum of apoxiomones. However, we see that there are further doubts in the Ministry of Culture about where it should be placed. It is unacceptable for him not to settle in the city of Losinj. He is not only culturally good at the world's invaluable value, because, as we know, such statues in the world have 8 and such a museum represents for the city of Losinj an economic facility, a very valuable economic facility, more valuable than any hotel or other factory. There would certainly then develop cultural tourism, and what that means for Croatian islands is where the population depopulation, drains, where there is no employment, etc. should not be particularly stressed. And I also know that in an explanation of the state budget, funds were provided to organize a museum like this in the city of Zadar. So isn't that also a little questionable, or isn't that symptomatic of why you don't accept such an amendment? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76516	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 57, representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76517	It's unacceptable. Based on the Law on Councils, the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods is considering and developing a list of priorities and also proposing for funding. The old town of Sisak, the archaeological sites of the town of Sisak, are on the long and constant concern of the Ministry of Culture, and there are no reasons not to be in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76518	Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76519	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I only remind you, given the list of priorities you listed, at a meeting of the Government held in Sisak on 26.10.1906, where you clearly promised as a Government to organize and build the Great Capitol, the Old Town and archaeological site in the city of Sisak. This budget, this budget proposal is non-transparent. Those locations aren't here. Therefore, I request a vote on this amendment of mine since you have not put any of this on, although it is for you as you yourself have said orally, a priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76520	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 58, representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76521	It is not accepted under the Law on Programme Councils, considered by the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods, produced by the list of priorities of cultural goods and proposed them to the ministry. It is also necessary for this monument to produce prior documentation, to determine its purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76522	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76523	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am afraid until you do all this to make this monument of culture, so it's the fortress of St. Nicholas in the Sibenik aquarium, so that it doesn't collapse. I normally didn't expect you to accept this amendment since yesterday we heard from Minister Shuker that no amendments would be adopted. I can accept, in some ways, that Minister Schuker is creating a financial and economic policy, but I cannot accept that Minister Schuker determines and determines cultural policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76524	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 59, MPs Mato Arlović and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76525	It's unacceptable. Under the Law on the Councils, the programmes are considered by the Croatian Cultural Council and approved by them. But this same facility is already on the culture ministry's funding list.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76526	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76527	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, this is the seventh time I've asked for the necessary means to resuscitate this church, which is 231 years old. It is located only 8 kilometers west of the town center of Brod. Fortunately, the municipality of Sibinj was not directly covered by war events, but the church, its interior, especially looks like it was directly fought by World War II and Homeland together. It is no longer possible to perform religious rituals directly. It is in the fullest sense that all those who live in that church are at risk. There are parts of the ceilings falling off, and I invite you, Mr. Minister, to arrive urgently or urgently and personally to visit that church, to urgently secure the funds. Mr. President of the Parliament knows that church extremely well, for seven times I repeat, and I ask you if you have already provided the funds and if something is working there to strengthen those funds. If you say so, I'll withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76528	Amendment withdrawn. 62. ......... Please, we can't parole and no discussion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You know. ... No, Minister. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] vote. [[Intruder: So, I expect to...]] Who's in favour of this amendment? You can't do that, the amendment refused. IDS representative club, 60.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76529	It's unacceptable. Under the Law on the Council of Programmes, the Croatian Council for Cultural goods is considering, setting out the list of priorities of cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76530	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76531	With these amendments, we are looking for 300,000 kunas to edit the building of Matija Blacic Ilirik in Labin. Otherwise, Matija Blačić Ilirik was born 3.3.1520 in Labin, died in 1575 in Frankfurt, a close associate of Luther and ideologist of the Protestant movement. One of the most fertile writers of the time. The writer of the monumental Madreburg Centurion, he wrote "Catalog of the Witness of Truth", and perhaps the key to his work is "The Key of the Holy Scriptures". He certainly means with these, along with our Nobel laureates Ružička, Prelog, Mohorović, I do not know Andric, Perman Dalmatina, also from Istria, one of the most remarkable figures from Croatian spaces. And Kovacevic. So, after Dobriva was deserved to receive a university in Pula, we believe that it would also be deserved for Blacic to at least, under quotes, arrange his mention of the house or home home and in this, along with local self-government to be participated with certain financial resources and the competent ministry. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76532	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 61st, IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76533	It's unacceptable. The initiation of all additional works shall result from an amended solution on the prior approval of the investor's duties pursuant to Article 46. The Law, paragraph 1. The law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76534	Walter Drandic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76535	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I think when I talk about this subject that Pula should still be viewed in a different way. In fact, Pula is a city that completes the old town's core wherever you scratch a bit is conditioned by the conservatives to perform archaeological research, which often may not be justified. I'm going to give you one last example that right now we want to change the time-consuming nogostance panels in front of the Arena, and that's conditional on archaeological research. I would ask you, however, that perhaps the conservative department of your ministry towards Pula determines some measure when these research will be done, and when not because otherwise it is very, very burdensome for the city in the sense that we are practically nothing in the city can be arranged without spending a great deal of money on archaeological research. They're justified, we're all for it, but maybe you should see sometimes when it's really justified, when you're doing major procedures or whether it's justified when you're doing minor procedures. At the Forum Square, the boards were just overly complicated and we were forced to do a full archaeological survey of the entire square, which greatly increased this investment, without telling you that unfortunately these days when we should welcome New Year's Eve in the square we have announcements that the conservative department will not allow it. I ask you to intervene, to help in that part and to resolve this relationship. It would be fair here I think that the state is still taking part in these costs because they have significantly increased this investment and yet I am asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76536	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 62. Also club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76537	It's unacceptable. The scientific and research activity of the starry is not in the jurisdiction of the culture ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76538	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76539	I don't know whose jurisdiction it is, but I know that in 30 years, that starry discovered over a thousand celestial bodies, more specifically asteroids. They also discovered a star. Many asteroids have or carry a name in space by Croatian cities, Croatian regions and I dare say that in Europe there is no more important starry than this and Istria, or there is no, there may be more significant, but there is no starry that has discovered more asteroids than this one in Istria in Viznjan. To make the story simply fantastic, they made a telescope there in 1976, this last one was donated to them by the Italians, but it should be put into operation in some way. They are funded by the County of Istria, the Municipality of Viznjan, the City of Poreč, and it seems to me that the only government of Mr. Matesha was there in the time of 99 or 98 donated the then 100,000 marks, i.e. the amount of 300,000 kuna. We spoke, Mr. Minister, a few days ago, you promised between the lines that you would help this starry, I hold you in my word, but still so as not to deny the ability of the MPs to vote on this amendment asking for a vote here's an honest one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76540	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 63rd, MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76541	It's unacceptable. The ministry of culture systematically supports the restoration of the homes of culture and thus the County of Međimurje, and in Međimurje even strengthened. All programmes notified will be reviewed by the competent council, the Investment Commission and will decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76542	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76543	Despite this promise, Minister, I will ask to vote on this amendment for the following reasons. In both 2004 and 2005 and 2006 I received the same answer, and at this position of 5 million kuna I defined 3 such homes of culture in the Mursko Centre, in the municipality of Straholinec and the settlement of Žiškovec in the town of Čakovec. For them, all three of these facilities were designed project documentation, and for the home of culture in... As early as 2003, the state co-financed the design of the project because it was a major procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they appear systematically every year, and they can't get the funds, and when they budget, we always get the same answer. You ministers were visiting our county the other day, and you promised to co-finance the reconstruction of churches and social homes, unfortunately this three years we weren't very happy with co-financing from the state budget, so as I said, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76544	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 64th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76545	It is not accepted under the Law on Councils, the programmes are considered by the Croatian Council for Cultural Goods, produced by a list of priorities, and proposed cultural goods programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76546	Representative Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76547	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I think the historical site... and building a colony that is already well realised one of the priority ones I would say perhaps the most important foundations on which Galovac Municipality is trying to create its own identity in some way and I think that this valuable find should be tried in any case, and the art colony that has already begun working backwards for three, four years has already produced extraordinary results and it has almost become one great gathering point for all art creators who in some way have already made a major contribution to the resuscitation of the culture of this space and I think it would be as good as you said they would find the funds and I think that we could withdraw the amendment provided that you stay in order for the funds to be found for this and that this site could be resuscitated in this year, and here I believe that the Galovac locals will be satisfied that this will be realised and in this sense we will withdraw the amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76548	Is the amendment withdrawn? Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. We are going to the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Amendment 65. Representatives Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76549	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the establishment of the agricultural chamber are sufficient in the planned amount of the draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76550	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76551	The funds are not enough to form a agricultural chamber. Mr. Minister, the legal obligation is to establish a agricultural chamber. You know it's been waiting a long time. The Croatian Peasant Party's proposal passed in the first reading, but we do not know for which reasons everything is now stopped and standing. We have some wild promises that it will be launched, that it will be done, that this year it will be read, but other than one or two meetings, there was no meeting of the commission anymore, and given the amount of 500 thousand kuna, we believe that it will not be enough to launch the agricultural chamber, so I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76552	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 66th Representative of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76553	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds for this activity for 2007 are significantly higher compared to the current year and the increase is 66%.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76554	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76555	Well, I wouldn't say that the funds aren't enough, they might even be enough, but it's sad that in this part of the very important segment that concerns rural development we may not be able to spend all of our resources, and we're not going to spend them as we are this year because there are no programs going towards rural development. Mr. Minister and you understand that in this part is a future in which to invest funds in agriculture. The rural development that we are looking at today in the European Union in relation to direct incentives is almost more represented, almost 60 percent compared to the direct incentives of the model in which we must go. I'm afraid at this rate and by these means, we won't be able to do it, so I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76556	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The following is also representative Bozidar Pankretic and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76557	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds are significantly higher and each year they increase in line with the government and ministry's budgetary opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76558	Minister Bozidar Pankretic, MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76559	Yes, it's true that the funds are increasing. In this year, the exact same amount we last year almost transferred to the amendment. I can see you're listening to us, but with a little behind. We should listen to you and accept this amendment that we have put here because it is clear to you, too, given the default of all those incentives that should have been paid in this year, that the funds provided for in the part of the direct payments budget will not be sufficient. Too much of next year's funds are being transferred, almost reaching according to some allegations, I can't say which is exactly up to a billion kuna. We don't think it's going to be enough with billions of 912 million kunas, and it's still going to increase that debt, and this year, there's almost nothing in livestock that's been paid except for that first small part, but there's much left to pay. You know that neither the wheat is fully paid nor any other war culture, all of which is recorded since the money is no longer available because for this year almost there will be no payment, carried over three, four months of milk in the next year, will not be enough funds, and you leave this item. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76560	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The next amendment also serves representatives Bozidar Pankretic and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76561	The amendment is not accepted. The planned investment support funds in 2007 are higher than those realised in 2006 by 44.4%.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76562	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76563	I commend that the funds are bigger, but Mr. Minister, these are insufficient funds and you know that after 6 months of this year almost no longer convenes the Commission for approval of investment investments because you are afraid to sign at all because the deficit is so great. This is an excellent measure, indeed it goes extremely well during, but not enough funds on it. The people in agriculture opt for investment, which is good because without technological progress, there is no way we can have competitive agricultural production. I'm sorry this is going to show up next year that the funds will be insufficient, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76564	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The next 70th Amendment of the same MPs. ... This Regulation shall enter into [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76565	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Within this position, funds for individual interventions on the market for groups of agricultural products which may require the harmonisation of production and demand on the domestic market in some period of the following year are provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76566	Representative Bozidar Pankeretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76567	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76568	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 70th of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76569	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the appropriations provided for 2007 will be sufficient for the implementation of this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76570	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76571	Well, yeah, I mean, it's a shame for the Minister of this to explain it so briefly. It's about pre-existing funds for SAPHARD, which we talk a lot about when it comes to saying there's no domestic resources. Well, then we say, "Well, here's the pre-supervised funds." There'll be money. Two years ago, 25 million kuna, 25 million euros. It'll all come. To this day we almost have 2-3 programs that have generally passed in that section and the money doesn't matter at all. It is unfortunate that there may be enough money in that item because it should all be spent and significantly increased as set out in the HSS proposal. The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76572	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 71st of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76573	The amendment is not accepted. It's the same explanation as for Amendment 70. This is about the international component and according to the calls for tenders that are under way and the implementation of projects because the payment from this fund goes according to the completed projects for 2007. This will be enough resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76574	Amendment withdrawn. 72. IDS representative club. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76575	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the construction of a major market in Rijeka are secured under the budget position of the Fisheries wholesale construction project. Which means that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76576	... and IDS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76577	IDS? Well, I'm asking who I accept. I don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76578	I am very sorry that it is not precise which wholesalers when we know that the first fishing port is built in Rijeka and where the fishing port is financed from European funds, the city of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County. This would only be the following where the order would be introduced into the fish market and I think it's now the first major market to be put into operation. And I think it should be decadent to say that it's for the wholesaler in Rijeka. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76579	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 73. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76580	The amendment is not accepted. The funds in this amount could not be spent in 2007 for the simple reason for the construction of the wholesale market to be provided location, design, project documentation and all necessary and these resources are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76581	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Excuse me, Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76582	The club, the HSS club. Well, Mr. Minister, your answer is interesting. So you haven't worked for three years, you haven't prepared a project, so we can't spare more money for the big market. Here, 50 billion euros we've spent the state budget, we haven't been able to make any obvious project documentation for the wholesaler. If we're a Adriatic country, we don't want to declare ZERP, we don't want to build a big market with fish and in fact how we are then a Adriatic-oriented country. I suggest that you try not to make up for it in these three years, and in this year, put out the paperwork and spend the money that was obviously supposed to be spent on that part if we claim to be a maritime-oriented country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76583	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 74th Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76584	The amendment is not accepted. The funds provided for in this position will be sufficient to realise this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76585	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76586	Mr. Minister, these funds are less than you predicted in last year's budget. I'd like to warn the competition of an Italian fishing fleet that has more modern, larger, stronger ships. You know what's going on here. Often, fishermen are mentioned, often your mouth is full of how to help them and yet these funds are reduced. And I suggest that the state encourages more resources to co-finance the modernisation of the fishing fleet because it is in the interest not only of them but of all in Croatia. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76587	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 75. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76588	The amendment is not accepted with a similar explanation as for the previous amendment. The government and the Ministry of Agriculture settled their commitments in 2006 and the planned funds for new activities, for new projects to build a fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76589	Representative Zeljko Pecek on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76590	Well, yeah, and this is an interesting explanation. We want to build a fishing fleet to prepare for the European Union, and for that in the budget we will allocate 18 million kuna next year. So we'll be able to build 18 boats instead of 50, 100 fishing boats as many as we should or should have already built them in the past and last year. We have suggested that we increase the position from 18 million kuna to 33, which is not an excessive increase, but it is also rejected. Mr. Minister, with 18 million kunas, we won't actually be able to build anything and our fishermen are not ready to compete with the Adriatic government. Our fishermen expect ZERP to be declared but of course they expect to be able to cope with competition when we reach the European Union in 2.3 years. This 18 million kuna position does not fully ensure that and I ask you to consider this minimal increase from 18 to 33 million kuna to modernization of the fishing fleet. It's in the construction of 10 fishing boats. I think it's disastrous after three years of running that program that no fishing boat is finished. Let's at least try to do something more in the last year of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76591	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 76. Representatives Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76592	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Agriculture will increase incentives for the production of rape oil that will be outside the human diet chain or for the production of biodiesel by the new Encouragement Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76593	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76594	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow ministers! First of all, let me express my satisfaction that this item finally appears in our budget. For years now, I have been suggesting that special funds be allocated to the incentive for the production of biodiesel in warfare and the processing industry. Now we've predicted for the first time 10 million. You say yourself that the preparation of the Encouragement Act that should actually provide a legal basis for the allocation of these funds, but these 10 million kunas simply given the existing capacity in Ozlje and the factory that is built on good luck in the Vukovar area, for which you have actually laid the cornerstone, then the question of putting into function agricultural areas that are not at all used for the production, planting and production of oil tails, etc. It is quite clear that this 10 million is not enough, that it should take much more. We are proposing for now as an initial means to increase this to 21 million kuna and that, at least in the first part of the budget, we provide funds for the implementation of this law that you are announcing should come. That's the first one. And secondly, you know, it's about raw materials that will be the basis for the processing industry, which will open new jobs and employment, then raw materials that will create a product tomorrow that is competitive on our market and which can be the export product of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is a matter of quality investment and therefore no increase in budgetary investment is actually excessive and it would be good to accept this amendment, so I ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76595	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 77th Representatives Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76596	The amendment is not accepted. The funds in these positions relative to the current year are doubled.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76597	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76598	Just because the funds are doubled doesn't mean it'll be enough because it's actually there, you had to say that, about the freezers. You know that we plan to build a refrigerator in Velika Gorica together with Zagreb County and that in Croatia in total we have insufficient capacity because these freezers built are not enough. For these reasons, I believe that this increase of 2 million kuna would be sufficient to move further into some investments and you all know that without a freezer, fruit growing is certainly in a disabled situation because they have no place to store for example their apples and then it is a problem because then import apples come into the market and I think that in that part of this 2 million should definitely get, so I am asking for a vote because it will certainly be voted now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76599	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 78th MPs Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76600	The amendment is not accepted. A similar amendment to the previous one, noting that in the last two years 19 thousand tons of storage space has been built in... the freezers, which is one and a half times more than it was before the beginning of 2004. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the dynamics of building a freezer are satisfactory.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76601	Vice President Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76602	It's not just the coolers, I'm afraid. It is also about other technical and technological innovations and needs necessary to be installed in the food and processing industry of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular in areas affected by the war, in areas such as the peripheral areas of the Republic of Croatia, the Dalmatian hinterland, Lika and Kordun, then Gorski kotar, and not to mention eastern Slavonia and western Srijem and Baranja. I would like to remind, among other things, that we have made new amendments to the Animal Protection Act, that we have a new Animal Protection Act, that we have a new Law amending and supplementing the Food Law, and in all these laws, we prescribe new obligations for both food producers and those dealing with the food industry, and in this respect, it is absolutely certain that incentives that should not be the problem of lack of will, among all these entrepreneurs, farmers, craftsmen, etc. There is great will, everyone wants to have modern production, everyone wants to agree with the European Union and create the conditions to have as little effort as possible, as little resources as possible, as best and, of course, more extensively as possible products with which to compete on the market. But what's missing now is missing money. These funds, which are foreseen, are initial 10 million kunas, but in our opinion, these 20 million we are proposing are also too little compared to the needs that are present. So, it's not just the freezers, and that's why we're asking to vote no matter what I'm aware the amendment won't go through, but it's going to remain a debate about it, and I believe that the next rebalancing ministry will be pressed and the demands from the manufacturer will consider such a possibility, and then there will probably be a new increase in the red tape for this purpose. Thank you very much. The vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76603	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 79th Representatives Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76604	The amendment is not accepted. They plan the funds to match the interest expressed by the competent counties and end-users. The planned funds are still increasing by the share of end-users' counties as well as Croatian Waters funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76605	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. ... The amendment has been withdrawn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. The 80th Amendment of MP Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76606	The amendment is not accepted. Funds intended for the establishment of a citrus and olive grove are sufficient in the planned amount of the draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76607	Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76608	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you've predicted the amount of 107,000 kuna for the establishment of the citrus and olive groves. For comparison, a million-and-a-half kuna was overlooked for the vineyard cadastre. 107 thousand kuna certainly respected ministers are not enough to be serious, I am talking about a serious strategy for the development of olive industry in Croatia. This summer you convinced the olive groves that you have a real strategy for the development of olive industry and that you will establish an olive cadastre. 107,000 kuna, with that you can't establish anything. The Democratic Centre has proposed the Olivery and Olivery Act, proposed a whole series of institutes that are seriously developing an olive and olive industry strategy if we are to compete with it in the European Union, and this is from all of your exhibitions. Then it is truly unacceptable for you to suggest only 107,000 kuna, which only shows that you had no intention at all in the following year to develop a cadasar of citrus and olives. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76609	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 81st representatives Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76610	The amendment is not accepted. The increase in the amount is not in line with the redistribution already established, but the planned amount will be sufficient for the activities foreseen by the 2007 programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76611	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76612	The funds may be sufficient, but this is about the land planning program. Without the land, without the agricultural surfaces, there is no farm. 10 million 980 thousand and 600 kuna would be insufficient if we wanted to make an important step. And this increase of $5.4 million would certainly help. I'm sorry you don't understand. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76613	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76614	The amendment is not accepted. The increase in the amount is not in line with the already established redistribution of items within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76615	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76616	Look, whether it's in conformity with the redistribution already established or not, but the fact that this redistribution is not enough. Be careful, the issue of land regulation, the issue of raising its bonity, the issue of its economics in terms of exploitation and, of course, environmental protection is also constitutionally guaranteed that the interests of the Republic of Croatia must be taken into account. These resources, which are provided here, are neither sufficient to provide a high-quality treatment of the sewerage and irrigation network, let alone the setting-up of bonity through decompression and can drain agricultural land in that area. You, and in particular we stress that this is not enough to raise quality, exploit land owned, let alone by producers, agricultural producers. That is why we propose to vote on this amendment
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76617	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 83rd Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76618	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that this project will be financed by the resources of Croatian Waters and Local Self-Government, but depending on the degree of preparation of investment technical documentation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76619	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76620	Mr. Minister, this project is under way. And since in the previous budgets that position was and that is how the project was formed. It is a border area, it is about 200 households along the border with Slovenia. I ask for the safety of the continuation of this project to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76621	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 84 MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić, Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76622	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons that, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government and the signed multiannual co-financing agreement, the funds will be provided through a water management plan of the Croatian waters and other signatories under that Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76623	Vice President Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76624	Given the minister's exposure, it is obvious that the agreement provides for sufficient resources, not only with these budgets but also with the agreement on Croatian waters and in this respect we are withdrawing the amendment, because it is clear that if it comes to budgetary resources and resources that will be necessary to provide Croatian water on the basis of a statement by the Minister that this is sufficient to finance this regional water pipeline in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76625	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 85. Representatives Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić, Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76626	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the signed multiannual co-financing agreement, the funds will be provided through the water management plan of the Croatian Waters and other signatories of the Agreement for all planned facilities for which investment technical documentation has been prepared and the resulting building permit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76627	Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76628	Since the funds are provided, the most important thing for us is that the construction of the water supply regional water pipeline Gorski Kotar continues, that people in this area of special state interest get quality water as soon as possible. Of course, it does not matter that it must only be from the budget, it can be from the budget of Croatian Waters. And in this regard, we are pleased with Mr. Secretary's explanation. We're withdrawing the amendment. It's important to build this regional water line.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76629	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment of Representative Zlatko Koračević, 86.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76630	The amendment is not accepted for reasons why further funding will go through Croatian Waters and local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76631	And the representative of Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76632	Well, same as the previous amendment to Bez's mountain. It's a multi-year project through funding in years. In the 2007 budget, this item is 0. Since all other possible positions for the Varazdin County are zero. I'm asking to vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76633	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 87th Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76634	The amendment is not accepted. The project will be financed by Croatian Waters and local self-government, depending on the degree of prepared investment and technological documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76635	Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76636	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, this amendment refers to the realisation of the Macar watershed project. It is a watershed project that is extremely important for the solution to the water supply problem not only of the City of Makarska but also of the respective settlements, meaning settlements Makar, Puharić and Velika hill. The problem that is becoming more and more pronounced in the last few months, especially in the summer months, is not to mention that it is a tourist area and what water means for the successful development of tourism. I note what is very important that for, that complete documentation is actually over, that the building of these buildings is issued building permit and the City of Makarska participates in the realization with a million and 500 thousand kuna. Therefore, if Makarska is able to allocate those funds from its budget, I do not see any reason not to provide as soon as possible in the state budget the funds requested as much as I asked for 2 million and 600 thousand kuna as estimated to be sufficient. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76637	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 88th representative Ivana Posavec Krivec and representative Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76638	The amendment is not accepted for reasons other than those provided for in the Ministry's budget, the project will also be financed by Croatian Waters and local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76639	Representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76640	Thank you, Mr. President. In the same amount, ministers were provided with the same amount as this year for the Moslavačka Posavina regional waterway as for the last budget. Neither last year was it disputed that it was a priority programme for both Croatian waters and local, or regional self-government. However, we can testify that despite all the preparations, all the consent works on this project did not begin during 2006. I believe this is what you said. I believe that the works will begin, that the funds will be sufficient. And in that sense, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76641	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 89th representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76642	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons but for the redistribution of funds established on the items of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76643	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76644	I have to say here I'm not good at this kind of reasoning. But, Mr. Minister, when it comes to distribution, can you explain it to me? This means that the drinking water problem in the hinterland of Sibenik County, i.e. in the Zagorje part of Sibenik and part of the part of Zagreb-Dalmatinska. For if not a single amendment is either a folklore or a people, this people's surrender is certainly not because it is a solution to drinking water. I'd like to ask a vote for a simple reason because I don't know what you told me about why this amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76645	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 90th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76646	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that this project will be financed by the management plan of Croatian waters and Croatian Waters and possibly local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76647	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76648	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, if I can understand you well then this position will be realised, this position will be realised through projects of Croatian Waters and other sources of funding. Practically, what would happen for the municipality of Lishana and the whole area of the most important place, which is that from Benkovec to Lishan, a water supply system would meet the needs of that area that is so close and so far from that water. I'm holding that that's how you said it would be, and in that, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76649	Thank you very much. Amendment 90 is withdrawn. The 91st representative of "Dear Zgrebec."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76650	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that part of the wastewater treatment and treatment systems of the settlement Čakovec, Nedelisce, Novo selo, Rok and Donji Kraljec will be financed under the water management plan for the year 2007 Croatian waters amounting to 14 million kuna in accordance with the signed agreement and this means of the state budget by the division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, the division of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of Croatian Waters and the local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76651	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76652	Thank you. I was actually asking for other areas of co-financing with this amendment. So for the municipality of Pribislavec, Strahoninec, Goric, Kotoribu. We are rapidly in our county building a sewer network or system and sewer collection networks and treatment system. There are two water supply areas in our area and it is necessary to really protect the water especially those, those parts along the drains. Let's say Pribislavec is, or Strahoninec is one of these municipalities located in this water protection area, and so far has not received any kuna from Croatian waters or from the state budget. I know that we as a county are more communally equipped than other parts, but that does not mean that we should be punished and that citizens must fully finance the municipal infrastructure themselves, so in spite of this explanation, I ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76653	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 92nd representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76654	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the water supply project will be financed by the Croatian Waters and local self-government, depending on the degree of preparation of the investment and technical documentation and the resulting building permits. As regards the disposal co-financing of the construction of the facilities, the disposal system, the wastewaters Sibenik is planned in the three-year water management plan of Croatian waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76655	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76656	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76657	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 93rd also representing Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76658	The amendment is not accepted with very similar explanations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76659	A representative of Shime Luchin? Retracted. Thank you. 94th Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76660	The amendment is not accepted by the same reasoning as it was for Amendment 91.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76661	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76662	So I think this amendment. The project of disposal, purification and the entire wastewater treatment system in Međimurje must, in particular, find a place in the budget of the Republic of Croatia in one part of it. It is a large project worth several hundred million kunas and we ourselves have witnessed that even so far the Republic of Croatia has borrowed certain loans from international institutions to make such disposal systems in some other parts of Croatia. Therefore, since the financing of the disposal system in this part of Međimurje is not guaranteed, I am talking about the municipalities of Gorican, the Lower King, the Prelog, St. Mary, Donja Dubrava, Kotoribe, the Lower Vidovec. So I ask to vote on this amendment to protect the water in Međimurje as soon as possible. This is where I primarily think of the waters of the Drava and Mura River. The mouth of the Mura River in the Drava River as a valuable natural reserve, as well as to protect the most valuable natural wealth that Međimurje has and that is the drinking water located in its underground. So I'm asking you to vote on this budget. To implement this project as soon as possible. Voting on the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76663	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 85th Representative Zlatko Koračević?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76664	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that there is no need to accept it because... / Laugh./... this project will be financed after the project-technical documentation is launched through the Croatian Water Management Plan. That's why there's no need to secure funds here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76665	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76666	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Minister. With such an important and core explanation, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76667	Amendment withdrawn. The 96th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76668	The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons that do not comply with a certain redistribution and And we'll be working this year to create an assumption that the project can go. [[Employee: Representative]] Because that's the basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76669	Representative Plasimir Mršić [[Intruder: The thing is in 2007.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76670	But Minister I don't know did you read my amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76671	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76672	Is it? So first, the amendments are written precisely to change the established redistribution because if you write an amendment not to disrupt a certain redistribution, then there is no amendment. Then that's the budget. Secondly, I have here written an amendment to increase from 38 million to 100 million kunas of water and sea protection. This year there is not enough money for signed contracts and projects to build a treatment plant, and 38 million kuna will certainly not be enough next year for what the government and Croatian water have taken over. That's both. As much as you said it would be financed from Croatian Waters. Croatian waters should have one 15, 20 billion kuna budget as promised to be financed from Croatian waters. That's why I'm asking you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76673	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 97. Representatives Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran and representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76674	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that these funds are no longer planned at the positions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, but in the divisions of the State Hydrometeorological Institute in the budgetary position, artificial action on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76675	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76676	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We have also read this on page 306, 16 million and 380 000 kuna is planned for this position, i.e. for these activities. As we believe that these are insufficient funds and in this position of defense against agricultural fighting within your ministry, we have suggested that this amount be increased by 25 thousand kuna, 25 million kuna for the reason that we know what the consequences of the fight are especially on multi-annual crops. They are invaluable, and at the same time we know that our farmers, our fruit growers, our vineyarders are unable to provide sufficient resources to secure from one side their crops and crops, their property, and they are also unable to obtain other net protection funds, etc. for the same purpose. What we are particularly concerned about here is giving up the law that regulates this problem and, on the other hand, it is simply unacceptable for the ministry to support all activities in agriculture in this way. The only factory that produces against the beating rocket of Djura Djakovica, which is a sign that even in this case, if not entirely, then that production will be significantly denied. I'm asking you to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76677	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 98. Representatives Mato Arlović and representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76678	The amendment is not accepted for reasons I must say what is not necessary because these funds are foreseen by the Croatian Water Management Plan and they are significantly, significantly higher than the proposed funds at the position of the Ministry's budget as proposed in the amendment. For these reasons, the amendment is not accepted because it is small.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76679	They're gone. The vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 99th Representatives Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76680	The amendment is not accepted because the funds for the Agency's activities, planned funds for 2007 are significantly higher in the current year and will be able to meet all non-small and non-monetary needs of the Food Safety Risk Assessment Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76681	Who's in favour of this amendment? You can if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76682	Thank you. This is the last amendment, so allow me, Mr. President. Well, I'm at the beginning when Mr. Minister really expected to accept this amendment. But I would ask that we be serious about this issue because it's about the Food Agency. I think it must be clear to everyone the role of the Food Agency, and especially since it's the only one I would say is a legal possible mechanism with which we can stop the enormous growth that will reach nearly two billion dollars this year. Therefore, we can control the Food Agency in a legal way so that different products that do not satisfy the quality that should be imported into Croatia. We've got a lot of work to do at the Agency. That the Agency was just moved to Osijek, and no institutions, laboratories, accreditation and all that is needed. These funds here aren't enough to do that, and I'd like to ask you to vote on it because we're going to have additional problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76683	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Minister. We're going to the next position. The Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, please. Amendment of the 100th Representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76684	The amendment is not accepted because the funds for deniveling are included in the Croatian Roads' financial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76685	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76686	It is simply not true, Mr. Minister, because this year you had the funds provided for in the division of your ministry, and in the financial plan of Croatian roads there are no items of denivelation of railway roads or crossings. I want to remind you that 11 people died at unmarked crossing points this year. That only 19 million of this year was spent on denivelation of rail-road crossings, that in our county none was completed, and this is one of the key crossings because it was a crossing of the state road across the railway that was marked only by a dam and a shining signal. So it's not denivelled and it may be one of the few crossings of the state road across the railroad because no denivelation has been performed. ... And extend my time? [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] It was promised last year on the budget that this year it would be done. In response to the parliamentary question you promised me that this year would start working. Not that it has not started to work, but there is no budget for the next year denivelisation of railway and road crossings in the Republic of Croatia, nor is it planned by the Croatian Railways, nor is it planned by the Croatian Roads. And here, on the one hand, it is said that protection of citizens and railways will be made, and on the other hand, those items in the state budget are simply deleted in favour of whom and what. I'm asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76687	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 101, Zvonimir Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76688	The amendment is not accepted. ... Because the rehabilitation of the Botovo freight car wash will be done by the Croatian railways or by the followers of the Croatian Railways company, one of four companies. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76689	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76690	But it is contrary to the government's conclusion at the meeting held in Koprivnica where it was said that during this year, from the division of the Ministry of the Sea and Tourism, i.e. the Ministry of Environmental Protection will begin the rehabilitation of the Botovo car wash. Not that it hasn't started, it hasn't even completed a study on how this recovery is going to be done, and the newest are the ideas that it shouldn't be taken care of at all because the cars there don't wash. You've been talking about how it's gonna start every year. You are now talking about how this will be done by the Croatian Railways or by the companies of the Croatian Railways. This is contrary to the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from a session held in Koprivnica and I ask you to vote on it. Does the ruling majority support the government or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76691	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 102, Agent Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76692	This amendment is not accepted because the 2007 budget provides for funds for that project in part of the position A570219 under the name "sanitation and reconstruction of the building and upgrade facilities... in the area of the county and from that it will be financed. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76693	Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76694	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, I accept this proposal, and I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76695	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 103, also represented by Walter Poropato.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76696	That amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76697	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The problem of the reconstruction of Luka Brestova has been current for many years and you know very well, given that we have talked more times about the fact that Luka Brestova is the only link of land with the islands of Cres and Losinj and you know the condition of the road from Labin to Brest itself that simply cannot be tolerated in this sense. You know that the columns of summer are more than 5 kilometers long and that the reconstruction of this port would certainly contribute to the fact that larger ferrys could fit in that port to reduce the columns and thus improve communication with the island of Cres and Lošinj, so I ask that we still vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76698	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 104, MPs Antun Peruško, Slavko Linić, Gordana Sobol, Zdenko Antešić and Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76699	This amendment is not accepted for the reason that there is no need to accept it because next year from the position of recovery and reconstruction of sub-building and upgrade facilities... transport in the area to finance the construction of fishing ports clearly in accordance with the preparation and preparedness of space-planned documentation. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76700	Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76701	Mr. Ministers of the Republic of Croatia has under its jurisdiction 55 thousand square kilometres of sea space, of course including the territorial sea and protected ecological and fisheries belt, and we are at the bottom of the fish consumption among the countries of Europe. In conversion and privatisation, we destroyed the fishing industry. Only three factories work. In the ZERP of the estimated biomass of fish, our ships catch only about 5% of these quantities, and unless we systematically access a fisheries programme that includes and modernises existing fleets and build a new fishing fleet and wholesalers and fishing ports, there is no way we can succeed in this project. Luka Umag is a port that is suitable for the reception of fishing vessels and there is a great concentration and that is why I have sought, however, and this time I will give you the trust, you said Decided that next year from that programme, and I will accept your explanation and withdraw the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76702	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 105, same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76703	We support this project. We have directed the city of Pula and Istria County in which it expressed its readiness to participate in the financing of this project. A tripartite agreement is now being prepared and would then be financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76704	Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76705	Mr. Minister, we all know that Pula is a key infrastructure facility in the protection of the city of Pula and all the lower parts of the city, that it was built in 910, that it was never completed. This is the fourth year that I've asked for an amendment, I submit an amendment to make this project happen. Last year I expressed my satisfaction with your answer to my question, because you said you were aware of the seriousness of the problem and that construction, reconstruction will be done with the help of international loans. I believed, here I will give you once more trust and hold you to the word for what you said in front of the Croatian public and I want to believe that this project will finally begin. Thank you very much. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76706	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. 106 amendments, MP Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76707	We cannot, unfortunately, accept the amendment because for the past two years, the funds have been planned for this project that you are talking about here. The problem, however, is that space-plan documentation has not been resolved. As soon as it's settled in that project, it'll start.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76708	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76709	Thank you, Mr. Minister. And my information is that the Ministry supports this, so I'm so much more surprised that it's happening at the county level. And indeed in the planning documents was left out fishing port in Komiža, though it was once. The arguments coming from the county level are untrue. So from the gentleman who runs the office, Mr. Mrcic, who runs the planning office, who says that the city of Komiza refuses to do so. No, and the city of Komiza and the headship of that city, and you know it well, that's what they're looking for, and it's in their plans. It's a really specific place in the city however you like, most fishing perhaps in the Adriatic, where about 120 families live off fishing, it's 17% of the Adriatic aquarium. I appeal to the government, I have no other way, that because my information is that there's a good will at that level, you put pressure on those who are obstructing both the government and the people of Komiza, and you just do everything you can not get to what we all want, so here you are and me. Well, that's why I don't even know what to tell you. This is one of my kind of public protests about the behaviour at the county level compared to what is the interest of all of us, and especially the resident there. So I'm still asking that we vote for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76710	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 107th Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76711	The amendment is not accepted. There is no need to accept it because the funds are planned in the context of the modernisation position... The infrastructure had already planned for construction of the railway and modernisation on Corridor 5B. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76712	Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76713	That's not exactly what you're saying, Minister, because it's on 2nd section of Corridor 5B. I'm talking about the construction of the second trackway of Long Village-Crissom-Koprivnica-Botovo. You told me twice in response to the parliamentary question that it would begin to do so this year, or next year, from the state budget. For that there is no money in the state budget...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76714	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76715	No, there's no money for that in the state budget unless the first two tracks are made. If you're going to do a serious track, it takes at least one 300 million to do something serious in one year. I ask that this amendment be voted on because I see that the other amendments will be rejected and we will again remain one of the appendixes trafficked in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76716	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 108th Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76717	We also do not accept this amendment. The reason is that there are not so many ordered ships in Croatian shipyards scheduled for construction in 2007 and there is no need for more support than the one provided for in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76718	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76719	Mr. Minister, since the Resort Ministry, it is not yours, but the Ministry of Economy has reduced subsidies to Croatian shipyards, which I think is inadmissible in the situation in which they are located and because they are poor administrations and poor supervisory boards, so the government is responsible. Let's just say that this was a little cunning and an attempt to at least stimulate you in this way to help and raise from these 30 million to 70 million aids that are necessary to smuggle, so that they do not end up being not only competitive tomorrow when we enter the European Union, but also that they simply disappear before that. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76720	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 89., representatives Biserka Perman, Slavko Linić, Antun Peruško, Zdenko Antešić and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76721	We do not accept this amendment because the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development in 2005 is still in collaboration with the local government of Rab, with the port... Rab, I apologize, reconstructed and upgraded the port of Lopar as a prerequisite for establishing a new ferry line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there is no need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76722	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76723	That, Mr. Minister, is not exactly what you said. In fact, it was built by the port administration, the ministry co-financed the first phase of the expansion of the port of Lopar, and it is necessary to establish a state ferry line between the port of Valdisk and the port of Lopar. It is necessary to create a second phase for the safe landing of large required ships that will be, which will be transported on that line. I therefore believe that these funds are necessary for the construction of the second phase and I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76724	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 110th Amendment, same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76725	We do not accept the amendment because the Ministry together with the port administration of Senj and the City of Rab decided to build a new ferry port for the island of Rab, which will be located in the present port of Štinica and for which a building permit has been obtained. Construction, the completion of this new port of Štinica was planned in 2007 along with the combined road.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76726	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76727	Thank you very much, if it will be in 2007 according to the words you said...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76728	It will, it will.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76729	...made, withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76730	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. 111, same group of MPs. We do not accept the amendment because the Ministry in cooperation with the port administration of Cres provided 5 million kuna for the construction project of the port of Meran on the island of Cres that is under way. And it was planned in the first half of 20074. Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76732	Thank you very much. I don't agree with the explanation. You did not mention, you did not mention the port of Valbiska which is actually the main port which should be the main port for the transport connection of the island of Cres, Lošinj, Rab, Krka to each other and all of them towards Rijeka. And in fact, it becomes the main ferry port for the Kvarner area. This means that these funds are necessary. As far as I know, the documentation is near the end, these funds are necessary for the construction of the port because without the extension of another gat, i.e. the completion of the port and the access road leading towards the bridge we cannot talk about any traffic connection because in the summer it is actually a blockage in that section and it cannot be established that more quality transport corridor. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76733	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 112, same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76734	This amendment has no need, we do not accept for the reasons this will be realised but in the first half of 2007. And this is in line with the request of the port administration of Mali Losinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76735	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76736	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76737	Amendment withdrawn. 113, same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76738	The amendment is not accepted because the port administration of Mali Losinj is preparing construction documentation, building a new port for the island... in the bay of Deadenska and the current state of documentation guarantees the possibility of construction in 2007. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the documentation as soon as it's ready, let's go build it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76739	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76740	Luka Krtaška is located on the southernmost bay of the island of Losinj and should be the main port for connecting the island of Losinj, especially Cres, towards Zadar, towards the island of Rab, and is particularly important for the island of Ilovik. The activities in the preparation of the documentation have moved so far that construction can be accessed next year, and I therefore think that this argument is wrong and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76741	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 114th of the same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76742	We do not accept the amendment because the port of Osor is not in the function of transporting the island to the mainland and to each other so that it is in the jurisdiction of the port administration of Mali Losinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76743	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76744	Thank you very much. Namely, the port of Osor must be brought to the former, or usable state of affairs in order to enable ships to be accepted, for which only 630,000 kunas from the state budget are needed by 2009, which I consider to be really a minimum amount for the budget, and gives great importance to this operation in order to bring this port into a useful state, so I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76745	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 115th of the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76746	The amendment is unfortunately not accepted. The project is not in a group of priorities we will have in 2007, but it will certainly be in the 2008 priority group.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76747	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76748	Thank you very much. If so and indeed planned in 2008 for the operation on this project, then I would withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76749	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 116th of the same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76750	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the port of Martinsica on the island of Cres for which the competent port administration of Cres does not have the necessary construction documentation. As soon as the building paperwork's ready and we're done with this business.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76751	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76752	In order to achieve a more quality maritime connection and optimal connections for the high-speed line at the port of Martinsica on Cres, it is necessary to reconstruct and extend the port gat. As for the necessary documentation, the building permit of the Cres port administration is expected in January 2007, so within about a month to two days, and the total amount required in the amount of 5 thousand kuna of which 3 and a half million kuna, of which 3 and a half million from the state budget in the next three years, I think it is indeed a small amount for therefore a million kuna in 2007 so that, parallel to the resulting permits, it can be started with construction. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76753	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 117. of the same group of MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76754	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Cres port administration is preparing construction documentation. We believe that given the state of preparation of the construction documentation it will be possible to realise in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76755	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76756	Well, if that's what Mr. Minister says, then I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76757	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 118th of the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76758	The 118th amendment is not accepted because the funds are secured for, the funds are planned in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76759	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76760	I have to admit that I haven't heard Mr. Secretary at all, or his explanation, so I'd like to ask if he can repeat himself, I haven't heard him at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76761	Tell the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76762	In the state budget even years ago and so in this budget... the project of the regional island airport in the Republic of Croatia and the funds used to co-finance the development of studies and project documentation for regional airport networks as well as... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] The funds provided are therefore sufficient for the activities planned in 2007. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76763	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76764	Thank you very much. If this means that the design, i.e. making project technical documentation for the Rab airport through these, this explanation by Mr. Minister, has entered the state budget, I am withdrawing the amendment in that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76765	Amendment withdrawn. 119th of the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76766	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76767	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76768	In order for Grobnik airport to rise to the level of regional county airport by 2009 it is necessary to invest a total of 2 million and 250,000 kuna from the local budget of a million million, from the state million. Since it is a three-year project in 2007 it would take an amount of three thousand kuna, which I think is indeed a symbolic amount, and would mean a major step in achieving this project. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76769	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 120th of the same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76770	The amendment is not accepted because we planned 32 million kuna for all airports in the Republic of Croatia and we believe that these funds are sufficient for everything we plan to do in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76771	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76772	In this year's airport of Rijeka, traffic of 150 000 passengers was achieved, which is 30% higher than in the same period in 2005 and in the following year the traffic of 230 thousand passengers is planned. In order for this transport of aircraft and passengers to be realised, it is necessary to increase the safety of the airport and to equip it for the service of increased traffic of aircraft and passengers. Infrastructure, equipment and devices are mostly over 30 years of age technically and technologically obsolete and are indeed at the limit of reliability so that they no longer meet the existing strict standards of air traffic safety and service of aircraft and passengers. This is why emergency procedures are necessary in the estimated amount that the airport really could not, could not secure from its own revenues because 70% of air traffic are so-called. ... Air carriers therefore need intervention from the state budget, and in this sense our mayor has made an application to the Minister, so I believe that this project really has its own justification in view of the state of Rijeka airport and it really needs to become an active factor in the development of tourism and the economy, the entire North Adriatic region, which in this way will not really be possible, so I ask the vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76773	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76774	We do not accept this amendment because the funding of 3 million and 500 thousand kuna is sufficient for all planned activities at sports airports and we believe that they do not need an increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76775	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76776	The minister says sufficient funds have been planned, but he did not say whether these funds were also planned for this sports airport in Krapina-Zagorje County. Namely, there is a bought-out land for the construction of a sports airport, the project documentation process is under way, the main project for a construction licence will be in early 2007. Some 3 million 850 thousand kunas have been secured from what I think the project requires so much funding. 500 grand will secure the county, secure in its budget. Another million 850 local units and counting on a million and a half thousand kuna from the state budget. And I am convinced that fellow Jarnjak will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76777	He's already here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76778	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76779	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 122. Representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76780	We don't accept this amendment. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76781	Representative of the Sabati Zvonimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76782	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, it's about the same theme as my colleague Zgrebec just explained. It is indeed the Krapina-Zagor airport, which is practically before the end of the purchase of land and the outcome of the project documentation. The county has provided funds in its budget. Towns and municipalities too. However, this is all too expensive and I really don't see why this million and a half kuna would not be provided here in the state budget. Thus, an additional frequency of passengers and goods expected by opening the airport could also make it more prosperous for the Krapina-Zagorje County. So please vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76783	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 123. Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76784	We do not accept this amendment because in 2007 or 2007 the funds are sufficient for these activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76785	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76786	Since I have not been able to see it in the budget, I would ask for a simple vote because Zlarin is one of the few islands that has no helipad, and I know what especially in winter time means this problem or connection and especially in emergency cases. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76787	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 124. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76788	We do not accept that amendment, the same explanation as in Amendment 120.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76789	Walter Poropat, the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76790	Dear Mr. Minister! Rijeka Airport is such an important facility, and fortunately from year to year there is growing traffic, and I believe that such modest means as we have provided for 10 million kuna in this amendment would be enough just to patch up those holes so that the Rijeka airport would be as it at least partially deserved, so I ask you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76791	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 125. Representatives Jelena Pavića Vukičević, Marija Lugarić,... Nenad Stazic and Gordana Sobol. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76792	This amendment is not accepted for the reason that we are in positions of planned 20 million kuna to start realising the construction of a new passenger terminal at Zagreb airport and these funds are sufficient for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76793	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76794	That's very interesting, Minister. You conclude a contract as you said with the City of Zagreb that you will finance half-half the joint reconstruction of the Zagreb airport. And that contract represents the will, the free will of the two sides. But then you unilaterally as the Government and as the parliamentary majority of that other party that should finance it you take 800 million kuna. So how will they finance it now? And the Zagreb airport is not an airport only used by Zagreb. So that's where international delegations land, that's where the prime minister from that airport leaves for his travels, at the end of that airport you're leaving as a minister. The airport is also of national interest to the entire republic. There is no renewal of the Minister, unless the state assumes its obligation when you kidnapped 800 million kuna from Zagreb to help at least capital facilities be built. There won't be a minister. There's nothing to be of. 800 million kuna is missing. They ended up directly with Minister Shuker. So of these 800 million kunas, let 20 bar be set aside for this airport Zagreb, Zagreb metropolis of Croatia, the capital of all Croatians as you beat him. There is a need to rebuild that airport. Come on, have mercy. Have mercy on the Zagrebers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76795	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 126. Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76796	This amendment is not accepted because... We're not even... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Nor did any of us ask that, nor did we receive any request or project to finance an airport like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76797	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76798	Given that this airport has not been a new story for some 20 years, it is being talked about, given that in a previous meeting and colleagues from HDZ also sought funds for this airport, and according to my information, there is some documentation, but with the whole story should be started. I simply ask that something be done for Sibenik and Sibenik County at last because if you look at the budget you will see that you have a different relationship with Sibenik County compared to Zadar. Well, at least a fellow symbolically from that county should raise their hands even though the amendment I know won't pass. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76799	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 127. Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76800	Well, this amendment is not accepted. We discussed it earlier with Amendment 120, therefore, the same explanation as the amendment 120, which is within the 35 million foreseen for all airports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76801	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76802	Mr. Minister, but it is primarily an airport intended for freight transport. It is an airport which should be the starting point, the export port of agricultural food products from Slavonia and Baranja. That's number one. The number two, from those funds, of those 35 million, is clear that this part will not be made and will not be preferred in order in view of passenger airport passenger air transport. Therefore, it is quite clear that this question, in addition, is not about some big money. It is 2 million and 600,000 kuna, and I personally expected at least if policy makes it impossible for you to accept the interim amendment to say that you will provide money in the ministry and solve it, because it is a matter that has been hanging for several years, related to functional action and airports in Osijek. I really don't think there's any reason not to get rid of it as soon as possible, at least in the next year. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: I agree.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76803	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 128. Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76804	This amendment is not accepted because this is already in the state budget and the construction and upgrade of the port will begin in the second half of 2007. It can't be done before for the reason that the project-technical documentation is being prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76805	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76806	Well, I'd appreciate it, but I'd also like to ask for a vote, for the simple reason. I'm very skeptical of all projects that begin in the second half of 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76807	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 129th representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76808	We do not accept this amendment because it must be financed by the concession authority rather than by the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76809	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76810	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76811	Retracted. 130th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76812	This amendment is not accepted because each new line requires an invitation to tender in accordance with the Transport Act in line, maritime, coastal maritime transport, assuming that the concessionary obtains or offers the relevant ship. If it is about boating, then the means are provided, you know, in the state budget for the restoration of the excursion fleet and are fully achieved according to the requirements of private shipmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76813	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76814	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister,... The group is the only island group on the Adriatic where there are residents who have a permanent place of residence there, who have absolutely no connection to the mainland or the coast. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's the only island group that counts over 200 islands that have permanent populations and there was a principle agreement that in cooperation between local self-government and central government, a certain line would connect the Kornati island with the mainland, or those parts that need to be connected. Because of this, it is not clear to me that in these positions there are no means to find that even if there is a solution to this problem that is burning because I say it covers an island group that is significant not only because it represents a tourist challenge but also by the fact that they live there and try to keep people, residents who are not only owners of these islands but also represent the last resistance that these islands disappear in the wave of our classical Croatian sales and that more instead of being our Croatian to come under the hands of those who will offer more. Therefore, the establishment of this particular line is the provision of arms and owners to local self-government, as well as a serious national move aimed at contributing not only to the protection of these islands but also to the protection of people on those islands. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76815	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 131st representative of the Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76816	This amendment is not accepted because the government's session in Sisak has also made such a decision, so it will provide funding from the position of the Croatian Roads for the implementation of the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76817	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 132. Representatives Biserka Perman, Slavko Linić, Anton Peruško, Zdenko Antešić and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76818	We do not accept this amendment because it is in the jurisdiction of the County Road Administration of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County. Following this, it will also be arranged by means of a plan and programme of the County Road Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76819	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76820	Unfortunately, the County Road Administration simply does not have the means to edit this road and the project refers to this section of Križišće-Melnica in the length of 4.5 kilometers in Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, which in order to increase traffic safety and make it possible to better connect the settlements and establish new bus lines, it is necessary to repair the damages and expand this road and the works should be carried out in the next three years and their total value is 13 million kuna, of which it is necessary from the state budget 3 million and in 2007 a million kuna, because simply that part of the county road administration simply cannot be covered. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76821	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 133th Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76822	This amendment cannot be accepted as it is written for the reason that part of the project is already in the four-year plan and part will simply be in the next four-year plan of the Croatian Roads. It's about too many amounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76823	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76824	If that were the way you say it, Mr. Minister, I would withdraw this amendment, but that's not the case. Road D-100 Rosina-Lošinj was built in a very small part and she was able to drive a real horror on it. I don't know if you've ever driven that road, especially a tour of the Vran Lake, which is a protected zone for drinking water supply. So there's been some work there last year, and there's no indication they'll move on. The Valbiska-Krki bridge we talked about earlier, it is a narrow throat for the establishment of that traffic corridor. The Lopar-Mišnjak road has been in the construction of island roads for five years now, but here it has been for three, four years, not to work, but rather to crack something and certainly requires a serious reconstruction and the Stinica D-8 road, for the D-8 road connection to Stinica, you have spoken about the amendment regarding the construction of Stinica port, but here I am afraid that the funds that were secured we talked about last year and the previous year, however, there is nothing. So, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76825	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 134th representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76826	We do not accept this amendment for the reason that the project of land-island Ciovo, the bridge of the mainland-island Ciovo is in the programme of Croatian roads 5, 8, the preparations are being carried out intensively and will certainly begin to realize this very important project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76827	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76828	Mr. Minister, I've been trying to dig up on the items and what I've found, I haven't actually found any kuna, which seems to me to be half a million kuna for this project. You were in the sixth month Mr. Nenadić asked what was wrong with this project, Mr. Nenadić spoke very nicely about the protection of the historic core of the city of Trogir, the traffic connection and the problem, you then told him that the construction of the bridge would begin in 2007. Since I haven't found how hard I've worked in all the budget items needed for this project to begin, I would ask you to still be a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76829	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 135th representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76830	This amendment is not accepted because the project is also in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads and will be realised by the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76831	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76832	This project, therefore, is about roads, several directions on the island of Pag, bypasses and bridge connecting the old city, old city core with the space where the salt warehouses were, was 4 years ago in the State Budget and then a complete project documentation was made. Unfortunately, the condition of these roads is such that it requires immediate reconstruction. A special bridge to build a new one. And since I haven't been able to find those items in this case either, I'd like to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76833	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 136. MPs Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76834	This amendment has no need to accept it, we do not accept it for the reason that with the leadership of Slavonski Brod and County we have practically defined everything, which means that the construction of the eastern road in Slavonski Brod or the extension of Svačić's street from the south... Gradiška in the jurisdiction of Croatian roads, and it will work Croatian roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Construction of the joint industrial zone Djakovic and the customs administration on the network of state roads is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, but we agreed to include Croatian roads along with the County Road Administration and local self-government and finance the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76835	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76836	Okay. If I understand, Mr. Minister, all of these roads we've been looking for are already foreseen by the Budget and we expect it to be Done next year and withdrawing the amendment. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76837	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 137. Representative Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76838	The amendment is not accepted because it is, because it is all planned and will be implemented through the program... Croatian roads so there is no need to accept this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76839	A representative of Shime Luchin? Retracted. Thank you. 138th Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76840	The amendment is not accepted. Reason: preparation and construction of the Barbana bypass in the direction of the state road D-66 in the jurisdiction of Croatian roads. It will be implemented through the Croatian Roads programme and in accordance with Article 9. Public road laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76841	Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76842	And it's hard to understand, but I'd like to point out one serious problem, the problem of this one, it's no state road, and it doesn't look like a national road. Here's what the representatives of Istria say. There is Brbanac, a colleague of Meden, so he knows that the trucks have to go backwards to get involved on one state road without damaging the social home on one side, and on the other hand this church. I didn't fully understand you. You can't hear it. There's a guy here, I wasn't asking for $100 million, I was looking for 10 million, and I'd be happy with a million for this year just to make that program happen. Since I didn't completely understand what you said, I think some kind of promise is, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76843	Please vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 139th Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76844	This amendment is not accepted for the reason that it has not been realised or the beginning of the realization has not started because of the lack of consistency of the city's spatial plan and the idea solution of which Croatian roads have ordered. Since a new spatial plan of the Croatian road has recently been adopted, it will continue to implement this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76845	Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76846	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, that's exactly what this is about, the solution to the entrance, the eastern entrance to the town of Makarska, which is very problematic. This is actually a reconstruction of the intersection of the state roads D-8, so the Adriatic highways and D-512 Makarska ravša with the county road J-6198. This is a crossroads where during the summer months big crowds are created and from both Split and Dubrovnik direction and what is interesting that this was already already in 2002, the means for solving this problem, or for reconstructing that intersection, but exactly what you said because of the lack of the planning documentation meant in the then valid spatial plan of this intersection was not. The project has not been implemented and I asked your Ministry if the project has been abandoned in the 7th month of last year. In your reply, you specifically told me that the Croatian roads did not give up the intended procedure in space and will approach it in accordance with the new spatial plan of the town of Makarska immediately after its adoption. You yourself said the spatial plan of the city of Makarska was adopted on 7 October 2006 and the corridor of the traffic intersection was drawn in it. I therefore believe that it is only in 2007 that it is necessary for us to enter this programme. I looked at items both in the budget and in Croatian roads. I couldn't find this project. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76847	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 140th Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76848	Unfortunately, this amendment cannot be accepted for the reasons why county road management is competent, competent county road management. So in this case is the county road management of the Primorje-Goran County. But in their plans, that's what they're going to do, and they're going to reassess and reconstruct that road.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76849	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76850	Here you go, Minister. You called this budget a budget of even development. And now you see how this develops evenly Croatia that you don't want to single out a million kunas for a piece of road of 4 and a half kilometers. In a budget that grew 9 billion kuna. A million kunas don't have one road. You say, "It will be the County Road Administration of the Primorsko-Goran County." So you and I both know there is no money there. There isn't. 800 million kuna ended up in a central account with Minister Shuker. This is the result of decentralisation and even development of Croatia, and when we have warned and now we warn there is no development, there is no. You can see that four and a half miles of road won't work. It won't be done because the county administration doesn't have that money and you don't let that million kuna of that 9 billion dollars your budget has grown, out of the 800 million kunas you took to the City of Zagreb don't give by 4 and a half kilometers of road. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76851	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The next amendment of Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76852	This amendment is not accepted because the construction has already begun and will be realised further as planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76853	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76854	Here, Saint Sunday is one of those places that will go badly under this new law on the financing of units of local self-government. And now he needs a piece of bypass, three and a half million kuna. The Holy Week was taken, but now that it's due evenly to develop the Holy Sunday and the bypass, then there's no money. There isn't. It's taken, not taken. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76855	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The next amendment of Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76856	This amendment is not accepted because the project is implemented through the Croatian Roads Programme and Plan, and the preparations have already begun.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76857	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76858	The promise is by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, a colleague of Polancec, to start building a fast road in Graz-Koprivnica-Gola next year. Because it's one foot towards Koprivnica, one foot from Bjelovar's border, right. Since there is no road in the programme from building and reflecting public roads, Croatian roads from 2005 to 2009, since this is not in the state budget the question of how it will be built. There are still no local permits, let alone a building permit, if we had solved property-legal relations, and it would be good if we had a budget item. So there is no road for Koprivnica, nor for Bjelovar next year no matter what the Deputy Prime Minister says. I'm sorry the Deputy Prime Minister says one thing in public, and the other votes at the government's meetings. But I would pray that this Parliament pleads whether or not in the next period, and this 4 years nothing made of Podravina will remain a appendix.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76859	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 144. IDS representative club. What? 143rd representative of Zvonimir Mršić. [[Intruder: 143.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76860	This amendment is not accepted. The preparation of the construction of the fast road Stara Gradiška-Okučani-Pkarac-The Great Zdenci-Virovitica-Therezino polje will be realized according to the next program of Croatian roads so that there is no need to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76861	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76862	Ministers, a public road construction and maintenance programme should be read in the Republic of Croatia, which was accepted at the government meeting on 23 December 2004 for the period 2005-2009. It's exactly where they write the shares that are going to be built. Unfortunately, not even a sentence foreseen in the Croatian Roads budget, and it is about 400 million kuna a year for the construction of fast roads to achieve the plan. And here at the government's meeting in Požega in 2004, it was said that this would be already in the construction in 2006, and not that preparatory work would just begin in 2007, and it is quite certain that nothing will be done next year except in the election campaign. So I'd be begging for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76863	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 144. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76864	This amendment is not accepted. Because the modernisation of the state road Buzet-Roč-Lepoglav is in the programmes and plans of Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76865	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76866	If it's in the Croatian Roads programs, it makes me happy. It was due to begin this year to modernise a part of the road from Buzet towards Roč, or Lupoglav. But I would like to point out that this is one of the most insecure roads in Istria with the most black dots, a road that may be in the worst condition perhaps from the existing in Istria, if we exclude that shame from... To Učka tunnel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much so I think that with these 10 million kunas, something could be done. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76867	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 145th of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76868	The amendment is not accepted. Because the modernisation of the reconstruction of the construction of the state road is on the Cres-Lošinj move in plans and will be carried out according to these plans that Croatian roads have.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76869	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76870	So I am pleased that the road Cres-Lošinj is also in the plans of Croatian roads. But she's in a catastrophic state. The development of tourism on our islands without modern roads has not been so much and I am holding on to the budget of these 20 million kunas in order to make a significant contribution to the development of both islands, i.e. Croatian tourism as a whole. And I'm asking for that much vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76871	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 146th of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76872	This amendment is not accepted. Because the preparations for the second wheel have already begun.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76873	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76874	Yeah. This is about the expansion of the city bypass in Pula. This is where we propose to provide 30 million kuna in the budget, bearing in mind that the County of Istria is represented in the state budget with only 42 million kuna, and this is what the citizens of Medulin, Pula and the surrounding places are in for, that is, one tourist road. Especially in the summer there's an unsustainable traffic. Then I'm asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76875	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 147th of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76876	The amendment is not accepted. Because this reconstruction of the bridge through the canal in the Raša valley is also in the programmes of Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76877	Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76878	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. What happened on the bridge crossing Channel Two in Rasha happened about two weeks ago. It's really something particularly difficult, given that traffic is banned in front of me, over one wheel of tape, and it's completely banned from truck traffic. Thus there are great crowds and big supply problems here and with everything else that the state road Rijeka-Pula, so the highway must eventually have. However, here I want to say that here this morning I was called by Mr. Vivoda, a member of the Croatian Roads Administration from Mr. Boban's office and I was promised that it was in the stage of an emergency solution because the situation on that road is very, very critical. Thank you very much. I'm withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76879	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 148th IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76880	This amendment is not accepted. And the explanation is as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76881	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76882	Thank you, Mr. Minister. However, I understand, everything is in Croatian Roads. But these Croatian Roads programs can never begin to come true. This amendment regarding the modernisation of the Marcana road – Prodol with an emphasis on the Barban bypass to an urgent extent would solve exactly the situation in that part of Istria where you must bear in mind that there are several capital and Croatian opportunities for economic operators, above all with an emphasis on the cholics, that many trucks are trafficling through the city's city centre of Barbana and I am so holding that as soon as possible, the construction should be started and the bypasses and I am clearly looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76883	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 149. IDS representative club. The amendment is not accepted. The interpretation is the same as in the article, Amendment 146.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76886	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. We believe you understand the priority of this hub. It's about getting out of the ipilon in Pula, and we believe that through certain programs this will work out. Pula enters especially now with the end of the Istrian ipsilon into the huge traffic problems that it has already had and which city simply cannot solve on its own. It's about state roads and it's not just about the City of Pula, it's about the area of all southern Istria, and I'm asking you to have understanding in all the programmes so that these problems can be solved and I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76887	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 150th of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76888	The amendment is not accepted. Little Huba – Buzet. The explanation is as in the previous amendment. So it is in the program of Croatian roads and there is no need to go with a new article of 10 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76889	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76890	Well, yes, for the construction of the Little Hub Blackie in Buzet, we suggest that it be secured in the budget of 10 million kuna. It should only be stressed that Buzet is a border post, that it is a de facto entrance to the Republic of Croatia. One of the capital roads connecting northern and south of Istria, i.e. from border crossings across Buzet Rijeka and finally bear in mind the fact that billions and billions of kunas are invested in Croatian roadways from year to year, and that Istria has not received a single not-a-mile, a meter of highways until today's de facto. We suggest that this amendment be supported on the basis of which it would be provided for this detour in Buzet 10 million kuna and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76891	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 151st of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76892	We also do not accept this amendment and there is no need to accept it because the state road on the move of Ponte Porton to the Nova Vas knot is something to do. Namely, a building permit has already been obtained. So the project is on its way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76893	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76894	Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I understand this argument. It means an amendment that tangs part of the road from Ponte Porton to Nova Vasa. This will certainly reduce the 30th, perhaps 40 minutes of kuna, this minute drive from Novigrad or Umag to Rijeka. I know what's going on on that road. It's true that the building permit is under way. It has not yet been obtained as said here, but we are withdrawing the amendment and keeping people in the Croatian roads for word that in the next 2007 will begin building this road.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76895	Amendment withdrawn. 152nd representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76896	We cannot accept for reasons why the CEB-5 programme is already defined and it is not possible to make additions or changes to the content of the decision in question. So unfortunately, we have to refuse the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76897	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76898	Well, let me just say briefly that the Remetinec settlement in the town of Novi Marof has three hundred twenty children. A hundred and fifty children travel to school in Novi Marof. The story is probably similar to many parts of the state. The fact that the Varazdin County went on its own to build and upgrade the school space and build 15 sports halls through a public private partnership. The fact that the Varazdin County has secured free transportation of high school students, while at the same time ensuring that in the state budget for 2007. Varazdin County is completely shut down. I'm asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76899	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 153. Representatives Mato Arlović and representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76900	This amendment is not accepted because it is for this project and this is the addition of the second wheel on the southern bypass of Osijek and will be implemented in accordance with the plans of the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76901	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76902	I'd just like it to finally be realized. This year by year, every time a building permit has already been issued, project documentation has been completed, as planned in the road construction plan. But... There is no road or part of the road that is most burdened by traffic vehicles in the Republic of Croatia and which causes not only traffic jams but also very, very dangerous traffic events that are dangerous to the lives of people and the health of people and, among other things, cause a large part of traffic accidents that end tragically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why we have a responsibility here when it comes to road safety. Most of all, traffic on roads is mostly due to an insufficient and inadequate road, and not so much in vehicles and drivers, and I ask you that as soon as you can access the realisation, so if what you said is true there is no other way but we will try to control that and we will withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76903	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 154. Zvonimir Sabati, Miroslav Cacia, Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76904	We do not accept Amendment 154 and there is no need to accept it. It is about the restoration of a rink in the Krapina-Zagorska County. As soon as it happened, we went out into the field along with the Croatian roads. Croatian roads recorded the situation. Ordered project documentation without which it cannot be rescheduled, and before that is called a tender. So the complete project documentation resuscitation of the slide is made. These days, a rescheduling contest is also being held. So there's no need to go here with the amendment and ask for 32 million kunas when it's already all expensive practically before the realization.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76905	Representative Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76906	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, all this is well said. Since that's not in the budget, I don't know if it's going to be and everything that's been rescheduled there, the heavy rain that's been done this year. The proposal is indeed to secure 32 million kuna funds. I don't know if those funds are even planned. However, if it is only the documentation, if it is the beginning of the work, then this coming year will not be resolved, and yet I propose that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76907	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 155, Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76908	This amendment is not accepted and Mr. MP knows that the problem, the big problem, is property-legal, and it takes time to resolve this issue. When this problem is solved by property-legislative property, then the implementation of the project will be joined.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76909	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76910	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is true that there is an property part of the problem, part of the documentation on that road D121 through the place Tisno that passes is the only part of the common state road which is also from a safe perspective, from the aspect of traffic flow, from the aspect of the development of tourism exactly some part of the road that stops normal flow of people and goods not only during the tourist season but throughout the year. The municipality invested funds in making part of the documentation, made part of the support wall, provided for the resolution of the part relating to property-legislative relations, and I think there is no reason why Croatian roads should not approach the construction of this second section in the sense of starting with the realisation of the road, i.e. that part of the road is provided until the beginning of the tourist season so that in some way this part of the road can be put into the function in which our roads should be. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76911	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 156, the amendment has been rejected. Identical. We're going to 157, Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76912	We don't accept this amendment and wait for it to... Murter, for this project of recovery and realization of the second phase coast reconstruction in Murter, an old Murter municipality will be proposed and if it meets the criteria, and there is no reason not to satisfy it we will put it within the position of the development of the Adriatic islands but in the following year. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76913	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76914	Thank you very much. Mr. President and Mr. Minister, this particular part was solved by a detailed plan of regulation which was a few days ago and activated, means that it was in accordance with the law that all the circumstances were acquired that could be accessed and here I am holding that you as Minister have confirmed that in case there are all documents that this project will be realised that they will begin with their realization and that it will end and thus complete a coastal line that is very important for the locals and for the development of tourism and here I thank you in this way and withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76915	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 158, House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76916	This amendment is rejected because no position in the budget of Croatian... tourism. [[You don't understand.]] This project is over. We are opening the next new project, and this is a project to create a multi-annual project of tourism... balances that will be consistent with the practice of others... [[You don't understand.]] measure, which will measure the true contribution of tourism to the creation of GDP... [[You don't understand.]] to the overall development of the national economy. [[You don't understand.]] Such a balance sheet will provide certain grounds for measures of economic policy to be taken in the direction and agricultural production, as well as other economic branches.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76917	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76918	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister pa project "Croatian product for Croatian tourism" was created in some way as a reaction to this very House when we discussed on several occasions the proposal for a law on the promotion of domestic production for tourism. The government then, as a very reason why it will not accept such form of support to the domestic economy, announced the project "Croatian Product for Croatian Tourism", and the project also made the Institute for Tourism in its reasoning as a project presented some 7-8 months ago to the Croatian public, the parliamentary representatives, the board members, and I really don't think there is a need or I think we should really find the funds in the position of the project, because if we simply don't give it financial resources, we won't be able to create a Croatian product for Croatian tourism if we don't secure certain positions, or if the ministry doesn't redistribute certain funds for this project. I believe this is a key project. We are constantly in Parliament discussing how to raise domestic production, how to create new jobs, how to create from Croatian products a brand that will be recognizable and not only in Croatia but also in the world, and then you know we write everything well and then we do not realize it in the end. We could have put at least five million kunas in this project to create an incentive for small development, so next year we would certainly have done a lot more. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76919	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 159, MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76920	There is no need to accept this amendment, we do not accept it for the reasons that already planned funds for the project of building the port of Slavonski Brod, i.e. to build... in the port of Slavonski Brod at the positions of the building budget and maintenance of the port building in the ports of internal waters of national importance. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76921	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76922	Thank you very much. It is pleasant to hear, Mr. Minister, that the planned funds are sufficient for everything we expect to do from the port of Brod. It should be the bearer of the economic development of the town of Brod, the Brod-Posavina County, but I dare say a significant part of Slavonia. By building the eastern road you promised to be next year, all assumptions for faster development and these ports will be created. In this way and faster employment of a large number of unemployed in the Brod-Posavina County area, which currently accounts for 16 thousand of them in the town of Brod half. I ask you to make the funds you planned as fast as possible, if possible and to strengthen this port and all those planning to get to the port as soon as possible so that they can start working. If I get it right and about by, I didn't read them out of the budget, I just didn't see those positions, it's in Kumletuv, I don't know how much funding is provided for the port of the ship, yours is to conclude that it will be enough for all these projects, if so I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76923	Amendment withdrawn. 160, House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76924	The amendment is not accepted because we planned in 2007 and are starting with the promotion of rural tourism based on a programme of loaning rural tourism that is planned to subsidise interest rates. So we've already planned it and secured the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76925	Representative Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76926	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say, despite the optimism that the minister here has brought before us that it has already begun. I don't really have that belief. In fact, all of us, when we talk about providing services, tourist services and when we talk about rural development and when we talk about population policy, etc., talk about real rural tourism, and for these very reasons, I would like that item to stand in the budget so that we can plan, the rural economies can plan their own development. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76927	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 161st, MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76928	This amendment is not accepted because we will owe these funds to residents in Vukovar for not paying the reserve on...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76929	161, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76930	Excuse me. This amendment is also not accepted because we increased the funds by 23% compared to last year to help Croats in the BIH and they now amount to 27 million kuna. So 23% more than last year, and in the future, we're going to make it bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76931	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76932	Of course, I am pleased that solidarity funds have increased to help the Republic of Croatia quickly return Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not only them but also other persons who have been displaced from Bosnia and Herzegovina and are found as refugees in the Republic of Croatia. However, I believe that this is insufficient funding, it is only 27 million kuna, and it is, in fact, strategic interests in terms of, among other things, issues that need to be regulated now and by changing the Constitution within Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also by preparing the final phase, one of the final stages, in fact, the position of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why we must do much, much more to enable the rapid return of people to their homes and to enable them to peacefully own their property and... in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] We have suggested a relatively small increase compared to what is already planned. We have suggested that it be just another 8 million kuna, so 35 million kuna, which is essentially when it's divided into Herzegovina, or... The county, then when divided in central Bosnia, into Bosnia's Posavina, is actually very little compared to the huge needs that are related to the restoration of that space and the enormous destruction that occurred there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76933	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 162, same group...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76934	This amendment is not accepted because the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development concluded contracts with housing users by the end of 2004 with the basis of the Law on Areas of Specific State Care and will conclude all rental contracts by the end of the year. Then there is the sale of these facilities, and then, as was the case here in one answer to the parliamentary question and it is said, we will include that rent in that mass of funds that users will repay by credit when buying their facilities in which they live, and from that we will settle the debts of the tenants, what you are asking in Vukovar for not paying for the reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76935	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76936	Mr. President, precisely because of the response we received to the asked parliamentary question during this year, and as explained now, we have proposed this amendment and we will stay with it, we will ask for a vote. In fact, it is the law that the reserve should be paid by the owners of the apartments, not by the protected tenants found in those apartments. Unfortunately, our tenant returnees, who have returned to Vukovar to their territory, to their city, have received solutions to pay the rent, or to reserve the rent. So, especially rent plus reserve for state-owned apartments. Now the answer is that a solution will be found because sales will actually be re-accounted for in the price paid by the buyers of these apartments and the reserves they will also have to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76937	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76938	I think it would be possible for the state to take over this sale, that it would reduce the amount of that price reserve price of apartments so that it would deprive those tenants in fact. Because like you said, it just doesn't work out and that's why I'm asking to vote on this amendment, and even more importantly, that we've had this opportunity to discuss this problem for tomorrow's solution when the contract is settled... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76939	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 163rd amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76940	This amendment cannot be accepted because it is not in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development but is the responsibility of the Ministry of Croatian Defence, Family and Intergenerational Solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76941	Walter Drandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76942	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. We have addressed this amendment, clearly, hoping to encourage a solution to a major problem that exists in Pula. A problem that has more than 10 families of active and employees at the Ministry of Defence, defenders who, many, many years ago, have been settled temporarily in a tourist resort in Pula, a former Camp Lovine that is completely out of service, and these people live a single life that is far from human, so to speak. They live in totally inhumane conditions, in wooden bungalows with great danger. Recently, the current shook the children, while children were born in the village. It's dangerous that the disease happens, and the City of Pula wants to solve the problem. We contacted and some, part of the problem managed to solve with Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor, but many people remain to be solved. They just can't live there anymore. I appeal here not so much to Minister Calmet but to the government, to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor, to the Ministry of Defence, but also to you, Mr. Minister, to try to find a solution together for these people. We need to build five, six apartments to get them out of that camp. There are a lot of people out there who clearly do not have those needs, who are there for some other reasons to finally solve this problem, and how these people can begin to live with dignity. These are Croatian defenders, officials and officers of the Croatian Army who after many years... lives deserve to live with dignity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can also withdraw this amendment because I know it won't pass, but the goal and intensity was to encourage you as a government to work with the city of Pula, with the county finally after many years we find a solution for these people, which is a space that is otherwise intended for the development of tourism and one of the main development resources of the city of Pula and Istria. I'm withdrawing the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76943	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. There are three amendments to the position of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, and then we'll take a break. State Secretary of the Ministry. Amendment 164. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76944	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why we believe that this amount of 3 million 190 thousand kuna to help local self-government units is quite sufficient for this reason that 499 spatial plans have been completed so far with the state of 27.11. of this year, 57 plans in the final phase, and this amount will be quite enough for those who are in the final phase to help them implement the plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76945	Representative Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76946	Thank you, Mr. President. This is not about helping with the development of spatial plans, of course, this is primarily about the non-selective conduct of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction in the Municipality of Rogoznica causing major damage to the owners of private facilities and to the entire population because, among other things, the halted and complete economic growth of that municipality. That's exactly why these means would have been necessary to resuscitate... and carefully activate the economic potential of the municipality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not about the spatial plan, it's about the damage that's been done, and we all know why, so if you don't accept the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76947	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 165th Amendment of Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76948	The amendment is not accepted. The rehabilitation of CROPE's disposal at Murter is under way, financed by the Environment Fund. Namely, the Fund and the municipality have concluded a contract of 9 million 682 thousand and 700 kuna for recovery. So far, 543 thousand kuna has been paid for this project documentation recovery. The faster the municipality works and performs these works and... the situation of the fund and after the control of the fund will be further paid, therefore the funds for that recovery exist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The thing is, the more orderly he does his duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76949	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 166. Representatives Biserka Perman, Slavko Linić, Antun Peruško, Zdenko Antešić and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76950	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the Ministry of Environmental Protection does not provide funds in its budget for the construction of central waste management zones, but these funds are provided in the division of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, so 30 million and 500 000 kuna are planned for Mariščina in this section, with additional funds to be sought through the EU Fund Programme, the IPA as you know this year through ISPA provided for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76951	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76952	Namely, the Primorje-Gorski County was among the first to launch a project to build a central waste management zone, and works on the Mariscina area will soon begin. We point out that the project fits into the waste management strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament at a session held on 14 October 2005, and in this year the Primorje-Gorski County did not receive funding from the ISPA pre-accession programme, which is why we expect during 2007. In order to close the financial structure in the construction of the central waste management zone, we ask that an additional 70 million kuna for the project in question be provided in the State budget for 2007 so as not to pass again as last year, i.e. that the pre-accession programmes were simply none of that. Well, here's the vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76953	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. Now we're gonna break up and move on at 14:30. We're halfway through. Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in turn at 14:30. We are going to discuss the amendments to the State budget of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. ... And we've already been through that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. The rest is here. Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. Minister, go ahead. Representative Marija Lugarić, Amendment 167.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76955	The amendment is not accepted because that amount is sufficient for the envisaged activities under the 2007 Prevention Programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76956	Dear Minister! You say this proposed amount of millions and 259 thousand and 850 kuna is enough to prevent violence in schools, in primary and secondary schools in Croatia the area of activity that you predicted. Given the increasing increase in school violence, I don't think these activities are enough. Therefore, new activities need to be introduced, and then they cost more money to reduce school violence. It is a little unreasonable for me that you invest 5.1 million kuna to edit your ministry building and to prevent violence in all primary and secondary schools in Croatia, just one million and 200 thousand kuna. And Mr. President, I would like to ask the vote, but before the vote to establish the quorum, given that a colleague, Kovacevic, came out and had 77 of us with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76957	Okay. Do the math! 76. We have to wait for the next one. Thank you. Now we've got a quorum, unless he's lost a little bit later. Minister, go ahead! Now, yes. The vote remains for this amendment. Who's in favour of this amendment? One. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2nd Amendment of Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76958	The amendment is not accepted because that amount towards us is sufficient for all activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76959	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76960	Honorable Minister, same as last time. I can't believe that to encourage a program of work with gifted students, you're giving out a million and 122 thousand 500 kuna while, for example, maintaining information infrastructure in your ministry, you have 4.3 million kuna. The success of gifted students in the competitions, you received them ceremonially, both you and other officials in the country, say that your programs are not enough since their parents gave money to them to travel to competitions, etc. Therefore, your argument that the proposed funds are enough for your planned programs is only talking about that you do not want to introduce any new programs or introduce any... I'd be begging my colleagues here from HDZ not to turn off the microphones. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76961	Don't make a reference 'cause you don't know who shut you down, don't let the HDZ shut you down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76962	All right, most of them who support the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76963	You don't know who shut you down, you might have turned it off yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76964	Well, with your hands in the air, it's hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76965	And that's possible. You see you play with your fingers, and that's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76966	Okay. I don't think there's anything going on around here if there's anything going on with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76967	Ladies don't shut down. I don't think anything's happening to me. Don't put the lady out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76968	I thank the MPs for not turning off my microphone. So, I would like the means to encourage working with gifted students to increase because obviously these programmes have not been enough so far. This, as I said, shows all the results so far, and I am somewhat surprised that you who always say that excellence should be encouraged, that we should encourage these little hotspots of good and great students to actually put these resources year after year at the same levels and that you are almost four times more single to edit your own building, to maintain the information system in your ministry, etc. It's a little illogical for me. So I'd like to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76969	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. One vote. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76970	Since 1992, the ministry has been systematically equipped with the primary school library, and this year we have secured 4 million and therefore the amendment is not accepted as it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76971	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76972	Mr. Minister, in 2004, 6 million kunas were planned and spent to obtain books in libraries. In 2005, you abolished that item and no books were obtained and then planned 4 million kuna in 2006. As in 2005, nothing was planned for the purchase of books in libraries, I expected those funds to be at least at the level that were in 2004 and those years earlier, and you even reduced it. I don't think that's good, that there's a way to support a book, and this isn't going to be enough anyway. I'm asking for a vote, and before the vote, I'd just like to ask for a quorum check, since I think one of the MPs has come out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76973	Check the quorum. 177, we have a quorum. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. One. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76974	Mr. President, my colleague Furio Radin is out, and now I don't know how 177. ... I'm sorry, but I'm allowed to make an objection to the results of the vote by my rules of procedure. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76975	Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76976	I apologize, I, by the basis of the Rules of Procedure, can object to the results of the vote and declare it. And I'd like a repeat vote, given that I have doubts about the quorum because there were 177 of us in the hall, a colleague of Furio Radin came out. I don't understand how we're left with the same number.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76977	Okay. All right. We'll check that out. You have the right to do that. I will comply with the Rules of Procedure and your request to please it. Let's establish a quorum, shall we? 77. Let's move on. Amendment of the 171st representative, Marija Lugarić. 170. National Minority Representatives' Club. We interrupt a little vote until the quorum is collected, now the quorum is lost. I am voting on amendments to the National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76978	Overruled.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76979	He did not get the necessary majority of MPs, Marija Lugaric. Yeah. Tell the Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76980	Yes, it is. The reason is, the reason was the increased funds, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76981	Minister, please speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76982	So we said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the 2007 Budget proposal provides an increase of 30 thousand kuna [[Intruder: Ministers obviously funds]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76983	My colleagues heard that amendment already discussed it a little while ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76984	Well, we didn't, and we discussed hers, and I answered. We're not, we're not. We're not president. [[No, we didn't.]] No, it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76985	It's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76986	No, it's not the president. So I just want to answer the minister that unfortunately the funds are not enough and every year we warn about this since the Law on Education of Nationals and National Minorities Schools was passed. Because it is that there are no textbooks, therefore there is no right to consume the education of children of members of national minorities. We have just proposed to cut funds because large funds were planned for textbooks that children would have free textbooks to reduce and switch from that position to minority textbooks to finally translate some textbooks and that the children of national minorities would have the same learning because unfortunately they can't use textbooks from their home countries because they're not harmonised programs, and on the other hand we haven't translated any textbooks so far. So I ask that you really respect and ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76987	Yeah, you're right, yeah. Because of this, because of this cacaphony, there's been a misunderstanding. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 171st representative, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76988	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76989	Thank you. Peace, please. ... [[Intruder: She's gone.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] Who's in favour of this amendment? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No one. He didn't get the necessary majority. 172. Representatives Marija Lugarić. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76990	Mr. President, in the last debate, the injured Rules of Procedure, since the minister has not given an explanation as to why he refuses...... refuses the amendment. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Just to get... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76991	Leave it to you, I manage the session. Don't add, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Amendment 70, 172.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76992	The amendment is not accepted since the proposed amount is in line with the planned programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76993	Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76994	I would like Mr. Minister to give some explanation when you refuse my amendment why you reject it and for what reasons it is somewhere in our Rules of Procedure and according to good practice in this House. I have suggested increasing the funds for professional training and education of teachers and teachers in secondary schools. Since you only suggested 5 million, only 4 million 400 thousand kuna. Given all the new projects you're talking about, these training funds haven't increased in years. Even in 2005, we reduced them several times, and since I say all the newspapers or at least the newspapers you're talking about need to invest additionally in teaching teachers so that they can handle the process themselves well and be familiar with the newspapers. I don't think it's right for you to single out less for your teacher's education than for your own department building. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76995	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. The 173rd amendment of MP Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76996	The amendment is not accepted because the planned funding of 3 and 600, 3 million and 600 is sufficient for the planned scope of the renewal of literature.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76997	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76998	In 2004, we planned and spent $5.37 million to obtain books in high school libraries. In 2005, you completely abolished your will to obtain school libraries with a booklet and professional literature. In view of this fact, I propose that the funds for the equipment of libraries by means of professional literature and compulsory books should be returned to the level of 2004. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u76999	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 174th representative of Zdenka Chuhil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77000	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that both of the positions we're talking about have enough money. However, we also have money from the World Bank that is scheduled for the purchase of teaching doactic equipment somewhere around 2 million and 600 for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77001	Representative Zdenka Chuhil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77002	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I was here looking for funds exclusively for preschool education and where the kindergarten is equipped with the funds of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, it is a small municipality that does not have a budget of a million 500 and cannot maintain such a kindergarten. I am sorry that there is no Deputy Prime Minister or Minister of Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity here, where we are very much talking about the most intelligent policy where unfortunately we are not talking about preschool care at the same time. We've left it to local self-government units where it happens to us that mayors who are responsible for this in each second term buy cars, reduce funds to kindergartens, and means not only don't build kindergartens but also reduce resources for the existing ones, close them. And then even when we add these kind of kindergartens that are minority kindergartens, which do not have the means and with the help of I say mother country, it is not possible to maintain the work of such kindergartens, which is necessary again to master the language. Let us not let what happens to Roma children happen to us that we must fully finance these kindergartens unless we help and these existing ones are closed. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77003	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 175th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77004	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77005	Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. He didn't get the necessary majority. 176. Representatives Anton Peruško, Slavko Linić, Gordana Sobol, Zdenko Antešić and Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77006	The amendment is not accepted in view of the very clear 2001 law that speaks of the decentralised function of primary education and funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77007	Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77008	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am aware of the fact that you have also refused this amendment, however, there is a government programme to remove barriers for disabled persons and in the Veruda school in Pula from the city of Pula, the city of 70,000 inhabitants are leaving the largest number of children. Talks have also been made in your ministry. Promises have been made, and it would be okay to accept this amendment, and therefore I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77009	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 177. Same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77010	It's being rejected for the same reason as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77011	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77012	Thank you very much. The introduction of the Croatian National Education System has led to changes in primary education that require the provision of adequate spatial capacities. That is why the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports reported to the Primorje-Gorski County as the founder and holder of funding of decentralised functions, on the possibility of applying for co-financing of capital projects in primary and secondary schools under the state budget. In addition to the basic condition that investment in registered and capital projects will reduce the number of shifts at the School of Education Management of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County also took into account the number of students, eligibility of investments, possibility of building according to the urban plan, infrastructure security, preparation of the project documentation as well as the possibility of including local self-government units through the preparation and co-financing of projects. These projects, with the participation of the state, county and local units, would provide basic conditions for the work of schools in one shift and better quality teaching of physical and health culture for a total of 2100 students. In the design of the investment proposal under the conditions of school work, the specifics and guidelines of the work of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County have been respected in terms of regional approach to fostering uniform development of all areas of the county, as well as increasing standards in education in smaller areas. The following is proposed to co-finance capital investments in these schools in these amounts from the state budget, so I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77013	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 178th of the same group.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77014	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77015	Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77016	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Now, I've been trying to point out for the third year in a row the problems of the town of Pazin as the center of the county. We've declared him the center of the county, but we can't bring him to the center of the county. It's a school gym for over 2,000 students and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77017	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 179th Representativeplatmir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77018	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as the previous one, noting that for capital investments, nearly 11 and a half million kunas have increased money compared to 2006 so that space has.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77019	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77020	I'd just like an explanation. I didn't hear why you rejected it before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77021	We respect the law in 2001. There's no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77022	Minister, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77023	Please, that can't be any reason to throw this one away because you've already rejected it. But let me say a few words. So, it's done, MPs don't have to squat anywhere, Vice President. You know, no MPs squat. The MPs represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77024	Peace, please! Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77025	Someone's playing with the microphone again, right? So, it's a school that doesn't have drinking water in the facility and that doesn't have a sanitary node in the building at the elementary school in Legrad, and I'm asking you ministers how HNOS can be conducted at that elementary school. We're a county where no schools are built with government money. The only county in which the state hasn't built a single school in four years. This is where you work... Well, somebody's playing President with this! [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Someone's playing with their fingers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77026	One moment. Are we going to interrupt this debate and disable the vote of the budget or not? Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77027	So I'm asking you how at that school you can spend HNOS? Do we really talk on one side about one-way teaching and space conditions, and in the other school we don't have money I asked a million kunas to bring drinking water to the students at school and to have a sanitary node at school, and you're talking to me about some kind of decentralised means. So where's the minister's responsibility? [[Intruder Primorac: What has happened to her so far with this school?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77028	A fellow minister, please! Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77029	Where is the responsibility of the Minister and the Ministry of State at that school. This is the fourth time I've given that amendment to be in four years in 40 large billions... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77030	All right! Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77031	Well, we can't do that, President!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77032	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77033	So it's just that in four years there couldn't be a million kunas to bring these kids drinking water, and... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77034	Okay. I'm asking the MPs not to earn it because I'm going to interrupt the session! Ladies and gentlemen, I will interrupt the session! At the first insertion I'll interrupt the session so they calm down, those who need to calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77035	I'm sorry, but we can't break a sentence like that all the time. Can't finish with the arguments. I know it's hard to accept that some school doesn't have water and a sanitary node and that 10 billion cannot be found with a million kunas, but okay. Please give a vote to see what the mood is like.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77036	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 180. Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77037	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77038	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough votes. The 181st MPs Milanka Opačić, Ivana Posavec Krivec, Nenad Stazić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77039	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77040	A brief explanation of the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77041	The reason is because this government respects the law, and the law passed in 2001 says the central state cannot finance school construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77042	Representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77043	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Minister, I'm sorry the state can't finance schools as you say by law, but then I don't understand why in some environments that's the case. So we choose the environments in which the state will finance schools, school construction and environments in which it will not. I am sorry to have to say here today that my amendment is also focused on this and the one behind it coming towards the Holy Sunday, the schools, the district schools that have expired for a lifetime, the installation facilities, the facilities that are designed for destruction, the facilities for which new construction is necessary, and that these are the conditions in the 21st century in Croatia that you like to tell the country of knowledge, the state that should nurture knowledge and contribute to developing the education system in such schools, and that our children attend primary schools and later continue in such fraternal schools of secondary education. I ask you to vote on this amendment because they are not, your reasoning will not in any way contribute to the even development of Croatia that you are predicting by the 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77044	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 182. of the same group of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77045	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that this capital investment is proposed for EIB 2 funding and the results are expected for the next two, three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77046	Representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77047	Well, then. Thank you, Mr. President. Well then, in the belief that at least this amendment, or at least this programme, will enter the EIB project, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77048	Thank you. Amendment 182 withdrawn. Amendment 183 is the same group of MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77049	The amendment is not accepted. And yet another explanation, this project has been reported to the International Bank loan. In the next two months, we'll know what projects went through.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77050	Representative...... Pulled 183. 184 MPs Ivana Posavec Krivec and Bozidar Pankretić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77051	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77052	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77053	The explanation is the same as before. So he's registered to a World Bank project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77054	When will the results be known?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77055	In the next two months [[Intruder: Pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77056	Amendment withdrawn. 185th Representatives Bozidar Pankretić, Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77057	The amendment is not accepted. Again, respecting the 2001 elementary school law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77058	Representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77059	And yet I ask that we vote on this amendment because it is equally about a regional school that works in extremely poor conditions and is necessary to reflect teaching according to the programme and the plan to build a sports hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77060	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. 186th of the same MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77061	The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons such as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77062	Representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77063	The primary school "Milke Trnine" in Križ, which is here, is an object that was built many years ago. It's a school that was before the three-part hall was completed. Funding is secured at 16 million kuna, with 50% counties, 50% of municipalities. It is through the construction of the sports hall that conditions have been met to move the school's additional funds into one-way work because 6 new classrooms have been secured, which would provide children with one-way work. Given what we all stand for together, which is better conditions in schools, I ask you to reconsider this amendment, because it would be the first school in Zagreb County that could perform one-way work in the following year. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77064	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 187 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77065	The amendment is not accepted, but there is an additional argument that it is registered to a World Bank loan, again the results of two and a half months.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77066	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much, 187. 188th of the same group of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77067	The amendment is not accepted because of the 2001 elementary school law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77068	Representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77069	I cannot accept that in some areas, the state budget is again being financed by the construction of school facilities, and this is not the case in Zagreb County again. Since we advocate the even development of Croatia and for equal conditions for all children in schools, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77070	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. In 189, the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77071	The amendment is not accepted. A reason like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77072	Representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77073	With the same explanation, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77074	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. 190 MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77075	The amendment is not accepted...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77076	Let me read the amendment. Marija Lugarić, Ivana Posavec Krivec and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77077	The amendment shall not be accepted with the note that it has been notified to EIB 2 of the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77078	Representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77079	You see, somehow I could still accept that all these amendments so far have not been accepted. However, we come to a school that is specific in Croatia. It's about the highest school in the number of students. She has a thousand 511 students in 55 classrooms. It's a school that's been filling newspaper columns for the past year. It's a school where kids go to school on four shifts. It is a school in which part of the teaching takes place in the Croatian Army building where 8 classes are allocated. It's about a school where space, a town of Long Village where it's necessary to build a new school in as short a time period as possible. In fact, land is secured, funds are provided, we asked for help to implement this project as soon as possible, given that such natural growth in the Long Village is that the moment this school is built there will be a need for a new school. That's the basic reason why I'm calling for you to really put a space in this program to build this school. And if you give me your word that's how it's gonna be, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77080	Yes or no?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77081	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77082	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 191st representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77083	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77084	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 192. Same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77085	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77086	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 193. Representative Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77087	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77088	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 194. Representatives Antun Peruško, Slavko Linić, Gordana Sobol, Zdenko Antešić and Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77089	Excuse me. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77090	Explain because the representative is here and the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77091	Explanation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respect for the 2001 basic school law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77092	Representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77093	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it's about the Matte Balota primary school in Buje. So it's about the fact that we're keeping our children in these villages near Buj. And I would remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia held a session in Poreč for the first time in Istria County on November 7th and in one daily of November 8th where at the government meeting I was present, the government eventually wrote literally, with half a million kuna from this year's budget and decided to help resuscitate and equippment of the Kaštel District School, which operates in the composition of the Buska Primary School "Mato Balota".
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77094	From the liquid reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77095	Can you repeat that?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77096	No, it can't happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77097	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77098	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77099	But I'd beg to speak a little louder, I really didn't, maybe you'd pull if I heard the argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77100	195th Representativeplatmir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77101	The amendment is not accepted. Again, respecting the 2001 elementary school law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77102	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77103	According to the 2001 elementary school law, we shouldn't write in this budget any schools, but we have a whole series that writes. I have submitted an amendment to allocate additional funds that can be ultimately not in this way but through decentralised means to address the issue of building a sports-school hall in the area of Koprivnica-Kristevci County. Unfortunately, 15 schools in the area of that county have no sports hall at all, so you can't talk about either of the world's... not some other principles but simply have no place to exercise physical education and really here's the fourth time I'm asking you to increase. Unfortunately, in the past three years, Koprivnica and Križevci County have not even received decentralised funds as some other counties have received, and as announced for next year they will not even receive decentralised funds for the first PTP project in Croatia. So he'll be in danger of not even being able to support those obligations. It is indeed unfortunate that out of the 110 billion kuna in the budget, there is no 10 million for the halls in Koprivnica-Crysday County. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77104	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 196, MP Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77105	The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to finance contractual commitments, to remind the three million kunas that are in line with the term and plan and the possibility of carrying out the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77106	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77107	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I think you're wrong after all. This is about children with special needs, not only from Varazdin County, but part from Koprivnica-križevska, Međimurje and Krapina-Zagorska. It seems to me that there is not enough sensitivity for the question of children with special needs and why to drag something into two years that can be done in the following year. All the conditions and preconditions have been made, so I think that more sensitivity should be shown for such children, and that is why I am asking for a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77108	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. 197, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77109	The amendment is not accepted, but as an explanation it is registered to the World Bank and the results will be known in two months.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77110	Representative Valter Drandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77111	I thank and believe that this project will be successfully implemented and I am withdrawing the amendment. Amendment 197 withdrawn. 198, same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77112	The amendment is not accepted for reasons of amending and supplementing the 2001 Law on secondary education where decentralised secondary school functions are funded by the county or the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77113	Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77114	Mr. Minister, a high-school catering school in Umag is a necessity. You know that the great deficit in the frames is what comes from the catering school, it's the chefs, the waiters, the people who, every year, need it more and more, and they're actually in the finality of the people we're already importing from other countries today. So I'm sure it would be a good idea to think this through and accept a modest proposal the club IDS has given, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77115	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 199, representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77116	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77117	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 200, MP Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77118	The amendment is not accepted. Reason: The planned funds are sufficient to finance contractual commitments on this project during 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77119	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact that it is a primary school where Roma children also go to means national minorities that do not have the best conditions for education in the Republic of Croatia. That is why it seems to me that a little more sensitivity should be shown precisely because of all the events in the area of northwestern Croatia over the past years, and I do not think that what can be done in one year should be delayed for two years, and that is why I am asking for a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77121	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 201, MP Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77122	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before, the 2001 Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77123	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77124	But Ministers don't speak exactly because this year and next year, the ministry and if nothing else, and the World Bank loan and EIB2 will finance the construction of school and sports facilities contrary to that law that you are referring to. Because if it's true that everything is financed through decentralised functions, then the ministry can't do what you're talking about. If that's exactly what you're talking about, then why didn't you, because this is the fourth time I've submitted that amendment, you've increased the decentralised resources to build this regional school. It's about the school where the building inspector banned the teaching from taking place. So if it's true that only through decentralised functions, so why didn't you increase decentralised functions by so much, because exactly the government is bringing so-called. the minimum standards for how many cities, i.e. the county will receive these funds. So we're going in circles. We said it was in the jurisdiction of the city or county, and on the other hand you don't increase the funds. That's why I'm asking you to vote on this one anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77125	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 202, Zvonimir Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77126	The amendment is not accepted, despite the fact that in the last four years we have increased the decentralised funds of about 350 million kuna. We need to respect the 2001 law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77127	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77128	You've increased your ministry's decentralised funds, but I repeat that Koprivnica-Kristevska County has received an increase in decentralised investment and investment maintenance funds for primary schools for those whose county is the founder below the average of other counties. So when you say that the budget has increased by 8 billion, it does not mean that this school will be built and I am telling you again, that even after 2001 the ministry is a direct investor in a number of school and sports facilities including two new projects, it is the EIB2 that has been standing for a year to decide, or the World Bank loan which will also be financed by the ministry against what you are saying and I am asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77129	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 203, MP Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77130	The amendment is not accepted. Reason as before, but one note. That while the obligation to finance capital projects in primary education was a central government obligation, this school was reconstructed and upgraded from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77131	Representative Zdenka Chuhil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77132	Thank you very much, Minister. You're right, but this is a sports hall, and so today we've talked a lot about how much we're going to invest in rural areas so that we don't get to depopulation and how we really keep the population, and therefore one of the conditions for keeping the population and giving the children equal conditions is also building a sports hall in Hercegovec. It's not a big school compared to Long Village, it's a school with 250 students, but in one village today you have 250 students. It is a very large school and it is really necessary for such environments to be given sports halls, not for children to have a body culture in 60 square meters. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77133	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 204, MP Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77134	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before. Respect for the 2001 basic school law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77135	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77136	Minister, it's about a primary school in Kastav. They need 5 million and 400 kuna in 2007 to build a sports hall and redecorate the building. Milan Brozovic elementary school. Without these means, they simply won't be able to do the job. It's very simple. Do you feel that children should not have a sports hall in Kastava, that they should not have an orderly school, which is why you reject this amendment? Or are you really as it is said in this budget for the balanced development of Croatia, for all children in Croatia, wherever possible, to have a sports hall, so in these 9 billion kuna budgets you did not find 5 million and 400 000 did not find it appropriate to assign it to this sports hall of this primary school in Kasto. In the case of HDZ, however, for a long time, he probably never had authority and probably never will. But let's let go of politics. This is about children, their right to have a gym. So I, Mr. Minister, ask you to reconsider this argument and accept this amendment in the interest of these children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77137	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 205, also represented by Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77138	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77139	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77140	Those reasons are not valid to you, Minister. Those reasons are not valid for you. It's some kind of mere apology. The result of your argument that the school in Delnice will not be able to upgrade the attic space. At Ivan Goran Kovacic Elementary School. Now, you can say it as lapidarianly, you don't accept the amendment for reasons like before, you can ask for no excuses. But who are you going to apologize to now? To me, to this Parliament or to those children in Delnice? They don't have any of your excuses, but absolutely nothing. Not one of your reasons. They need 2 million and 550,000 kuna to restore that school in the interest of these children. I ask these children to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77141	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 206, MP Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77142	The amendment is not accepted for the reason of decentralisation of the Law on Fundamental Education of 2001, noting that while the obligation of the State was to finance, this school was financed and fully built and partially restored.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77143	Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77144	Thank you, Mr. President. This is the answer I expected, and that is why I am not talking to you ministers, but to the dear children of Djurdjevac and the neighboring settlements. The sad story of your gym continues. It began 8 years ago when the President of the Parliament laid a cornerstone, your hall was placed from the roof, but in the meantime your parents voted for others and now you are being punished for giving their voice to others. These gentlemen, meanwhile, have forgiven the football clubs of 80 sports halls like yours, and they're ordering you today to love you, but they don't give the money. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77145	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 207, MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77146	The amendment is not accepted for reasons such as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77147	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77148	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an elementary school in Orehovica, which is attended by over 50% of Roma nationality. Their current school does not meet even the minimum standards in school, is conducted through that school and the national Roma programme. High school education is organized. Two years ago, two years before school, construction of a new building began. In September, when the government sat in Chakovec, a cornerstone was laid. The children and parents were looking forward to having that school completed soon, and I'm afraid in the 2007 campaign you'll dig up that cornerstone, so I'm asking you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77149	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 208th Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77150	The amendment is not accepted and the same answer as the previous one. They're even the same amendments to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77151	They're not the same. Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77152	The amendment applies to the same school, the elementary school of Orehovica, but requires more funding. I also appeal, therefore, that for this project as well as for those behind the separation of funds from the state budget, because in Međimurje we started a project and we will try to finish it, a one-way course project. The minister himself supported the project, but the project in its entirety cannot fall on the back of only the units of local administrations, our citizens, our municipalities, cities and counties, so much needed the help of the state. Here, I also appeal to the state, despite everything, to be involved in this and all of the following projects that are listed... So I'm asking for support, i.e. I'm asking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77153	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. 209th, MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77154	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77155	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77156	This is about a school called Pribislavec, where most of the children attending the school are Roma children. The school works in Kaštel Festeć, also under inadequate conditions. For such children, additional programmes should be provided. The municipality and the county have also secured construction land, and projects have been built, and indeed the state would have to be involved in the construction of this school, and they are not the answer that everything is the same regardless of which school they attend to, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77157	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 210th Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77158	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before. It's the same facility, but different amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77159	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77160	I suggest that, therefore, for the construction of the Pribislavec elementary school, 4 million kunas are set in the state budget because this would not be an exception because we have the same or similar items in the budget from a few years ago, and in this budget it is Kotoriba primary school, for example, the Petrian elementary school which for the same reason received the necessary funds. I think the primary school in Pribislavac also deserves to have a place in the state budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77161	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 211 MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77162	The amendment is not accepted. Following the amendment and addition of the Law on primary education in 2001, while noting that the funds raised significantly compared to 2006 were decentralised for capital investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77163	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77164	The funds were not significantly increased compared to 2003 because they grew annually at a rate lower than the total state budget, therefore you can't claim it, but this is a specific amendment because it refers to the construction of the school hall "Ivan Goran Kovačić" in St. George Na Breg, which was promised by the president of the HDZ then in 2003 in the campaign to finance the construction of this school. We see here after three years of office, the fourth budget actually not a word or a letter from the president of the HDZ, and today the prime minister is not worth it, and yet I ask that we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77165	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 212th Amendment of Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77166	The amendment is not accepted. It is the same facility, the different amount, again the reason as the previous respecting the 2001 Charter of Elementary Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77167	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77168	The Municipality of St. George on Breg, therefore, has a very low budget in Međimurje County and, therefore, at the costs it has, on a number of settlements which make the municipality to a low budget, so I think that without the help of the state they will never be able to have a sports hall, so here I ask that the representatives support this, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77169	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 213th Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77170	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77171	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77172	It is a sports hall in Strahoninec elementary school, the school has no sports hall, it is a municipality which in 2001 inherited a seven-year-old budget debt and is really unable to co-finance the construction of this school, i.e. this sports hall, which is a great need for sports halls in schools in Međimurje County and cannot be covered by decentralised funds, and the government's refusal to co-finance projects in school where Roma national children go, which would then, of course, be deprived of funds such projects in municipalities that do not have enough financial resources to participate more seriously in funding themselves. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77173	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 214th MP Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77174	The amendment is not accepted. The same object as the previous amendment, but the same reason not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77175	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77176	The municipality of Strahoninec was even for a time due to certain obligations and blockades. It means that with its current budget, it cannot achieve this project of 10 million kuna, so I ask the state to provide the necessary assistance to start building a sports hall in Strahoninco. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77177	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 215th Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77178	The amendment is not accepted for reasons such as the unaccepted past amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77179	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77180	This is another school without a sports hall, which also includes children of Roma nationality, and I am sorry that in this way you are actually denying the possibility of building such facilities in the school in Međimurje County. Of course I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77181	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 216th MP Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77182	The amendment is not accepted. It is the same facility as the previous amendment of Goric elementary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77183	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77184	Therefore, it is the Municipality of Gorica in Međimurje so county, a municipality that numbers over 3,000 inhabitants, a municipality that is the largest or largest in Međimurje County, but as such, as one of its largest with its budget itself cannot go into financing this project. It speaks of the power, the financial strength of our municipalities. So once again I ask that at least some of these proposed projects be supported in this budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77185	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 217, MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77186	The amendment is not accepted and notes that during the period until the obligation to finance capital... was committed by the central state, it was thus built, the sports hall itself is funded through projects C5. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77187	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77188	Thank you. It's a sports hall at Strig's elementary school. It was built according to the C5 programme, it was released, i.e. it was released for use in the summer of 2005, but it was not finished for its completion, i.e. it could be fully used together with sports fields, it is still necessary to secure, i.e. to pay about a million kuna. It is a commitment to the budget and it is a small part of the debt of the budget which was not paid in 2005 and would be logical if this debt was not settled in 2006 to settle it 2007. Then I appeal to Minister Shuker who is in charge of paying through the Treasury to settle this debt because the minister insists that the budget does not have any debt. Well, then I'll get you this paperwork, so I'm asking you to pay for it. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77189	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 218 is identical to the previous one rejected. 219. Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77190	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons of the amendment, the addition of the Act on... A year. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77191	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77192	Here I am going back to the construction of the sports hall of St. Mary's Elementary School. I can only add, therefore, that ten years ago we built a new building of the elementary school "Holy Mary" and mostly the resources of the citizens of St. Mary and the Lower Mihaljevac, more than 60%, so we think that the state would now have to engage in the construction of this sports hall in order to at least make up for what the locals invested in the school itself. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77193	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough. 220. Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77194	The amendment is not accepted because, according to us, the planned funds are sufficient to finance all contractual obligations on this capital project during 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77195	Representative Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77196	I'm afraid we won't have the Stryge case again, that's all. that after a few years there are no debts left, so I suggest that more funds be allocated to the construction of the school and the hall in Kotoriba. Let me just say again that the work at that school has been going on for almost two years. The foundations have been completed but the construction is not continued until today. A financial contract has been signed but my wish is therefore to allocate as much funds as possible next year and to pay as much work as possible so that we don't have any problems afterwards. So please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77197	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 221 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77198	The amendment is not accepted for reasons such as the amendment earlier, which is the Law on primary education which does not allow direct funding from the budget of the State.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77199	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77200	Even in this budget, we have one item on the financing of a centre for education and education. A few years ago, another such center was funded. So, I think there are legal stops that the Center for Education and Education, Čakovec, is financed from the state budget. It is one of the few centres for children with disabilities who are working under inadequate conditions and need to urgently move into its construction so that these children too can learn and be raised under appropriate conditions. Therefore, I request the vote and support for the project of the Center for Education and Education in Čakovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77201	A representative to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 222. Representatives Plasimir Sabati and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77202	The amendment is not accepted because the above-mentioned capital project was proposed for funding under the F2 programme and we said that within a few months, the results of which will be financed from this loan will be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77203	Representative Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77204	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased that this project is really included in priority projects. I hope it will also be approved because it is one of the poorest municipalities of the Varazdin County and belongs to the hill-mounted areas and they are also ready if there is something to co-finance the construction or better said above the standard of building that sports hall. So we withdraw the amendment on the assumption that it will be included. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77205	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 223. Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77206	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77207	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 224. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77208	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77209	Who's up for the amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Mato Arlović and Mato Gavran, Amendment 225.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77210	The amendment is not accepted for reasons of amending and supplementing the 2001 Law on secondary education.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77211	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77212	Mr. President and Mr. Minister! Well, you know, there's an amendment and an addition to the law but it exists in this country and the Constitution. The Constitution clearly states that the state is obliged to assist financially weaker units of local self-government in accordance with the law. It's about the town of Vukovar, it's about high school in the city of Vukovar and the sports hall in the city of Vukovar. It is clear that the city of Vukovar does not have these means that these issues can be resolved on its own and that it can ensure its misfortune because of the war and because of all the casualties that have hit those areas, its economy has been destroyed and it only takes time to recover so that it can make such contributions that through taxes and contributions will provide resources and for common needs. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to remind you in September 2005 at a meeting at the headquarters of the Vukovar-Srijem County delegation of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports held talks with the co-founder of primary and secondary schools. In addition to state secretaries, assistants and advisers to the ministry, representatives of the county and the city of Vukovar attended the meeting. The task force concluded that the construction of a new economic school building and a sports hall for the third high school was started. In view of the beginning of the realization, the conclusion is that project documentation should be initiated. It is also related to "Nikola Tesla" high school and sports hall. Now watch out. You can't come to areas that are destroyed by war, areas of special state care and especially to the city hero promise something and then not take it. I really don't think it makes any sense because it's a very important question and I'd ask Mr. Minister if you'd stop for a little bit and it's not about the big money to start with. It's about the money that's needed to actually start preparing documentation for this part to start working. It is about ten million kunas, and in this respect it should really take a whole series of arguments rather than purely formalistly reject this amendment. And I'm showing you that the Constitution and what your ministry has taken over as an obligation is actually standing on the line of this amendment. I wasn't making an amendment just to make an amendment, but to keep what we all promised to our city a hero and citizens living there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77213	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 216. Representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Amendment 226.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77214	The amendment was not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77215	So I've suggested here for the fourth time to finance the upgrade of the student home in the Križevci. It is about a dorm school where students attend high school, the best agricultural school in the Republic of Croatia and a high economic school, a school from which the Faculty of Agriculture started. Unfortunately, here's four years that's been denied. I am now surprised here you have told your colleague that Dubeshica is in the EIB2 project and this is in line with the Law on financing basic and secondary education and here you say that the student home is not in line and that this cannot be financed from the state budget. You really need to be brave and answer why here in Koprivnica and Križevci County in four years no school was built out of state money but unfortunately everything was built with the money of the county and the cities, so it is not even honored to increase their decentralised funds. I ask that this amendment be voted on because indeed students and students have no place to live in Križevci because what is from the student home is in a very poor state and we are talking about Croatia's knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77216	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 227 MPs Milanka Opačić, Ivana Posavec-Krivec and Nenad Stazić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77217	The amendment is not accepted, noting that projects applying to the World Bank or EIB2 are not reported by the ministry but are reported by local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77218	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77219	Minister, this is exactly the fiftiest amendment that you refuse the funds to build, upgrade, edit primary and secondary schools and dormitories, exactly the 50th amendment. So you have a little jubilee. You intend to come to a knowledge society with such a relationship to primary and secondary education. It is quite an original way to find in fifty amendments that require improvement of conditions in primary and secondary schools you have failed to find a single one to improve these schools' conditions a little bit. I congratulate you on that, I believe in all primary school students and high school students in Croatia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77220	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 228th Representatives Milanka Opačić, Ivana Posavec-Krivec and Nenad Stazić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77221	The amendment is not accepted with the note that we have again respected the Law on secondary education from 2001 and with the best will and successfully funded and implemented from various funds of 250 school facilities since the start of the term of office of this government to this day.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77222	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77223	Three schools are located in one building. You obviously don't care about that, Minister. That's not what you're interested in, and the amount requested is 2 million kuna. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77224	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 229th Representatives Ivana Posavec-Krivec and Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77225	The amendment is not accepted, noting that the project has been reported from the joint funds of the state budget and loans of the International Bank. Again, the results should be clear in two months who passed this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77226	Representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77227	Thank you, Mr. President. I know that this project has been reported but I am afraid that like many of these before it will not be accepted because we have a series of examples in the Republic of Croatia when in certain areas where the government of the buildings is built and does not break the law until in some areas where this authority is not adequate let's say so in violation of the law and no buildings can be built. This is, of course, a high school with several facilities inside one building. It is a project that provides additional facilities, which provides new classrooms, new workshops, new cabinets, which provides a new teaching programme from the existing building. And what's most important is a school that currently works in three and in some directions and in more shifts. This is a project that allows for only 1 million kunas to switch from 3 to 2 shifts. And Minister, I think he should be elected to this project amongst others. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77228	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 230th Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77229	The amendment is not accepted for the purpose of applying the 2001 High School Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77230	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77231	It's about the Ministers of Sports Hall of the High School in Samobor. Well, look, even the Samobors, high school boys in Samobor should have that school hall. You're making excuses again, you're still giving some sort of explanation that won't help build that gym and equip it. These high school students of yours won't have anything but you're not a minister because they don't have anything but you're a minister to make it possible for them to come up with funds in the state budget and get those equipment schools. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77232	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 231st MPs Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77233	The amendment is not accepted. This school was fully funded, built and refurbished as necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77234	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77235	But the construction of the elementary school sports hall "Josip Juraj Strossmayer" in Jurđenovac was started and should be equipped. And there are minimal funds for such a project, or such an object, which is of interest to children in primary school, school children in Djurđenovac only 2 million kuna, and we ask that voting be held in this respect. Again, we are reminded of the constitutional norm when the state is obliged to assist the municipalities that are weaker in financial conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77236	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 232. Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77237	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77238	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77239	Well, I think the state should help here anyway, it's about a school that just started working a few years ago. A young school with young staff but which achieves extraordinary results although located in an old school of former primary school, an old building of former primary school. It is adapted from the outside but has great difficulty in functioning, so as far as space and equipment are concerned. This school is extremely important for the development of the lower part of Međimurje, i.e. Prelog and surroundings, and I think the development of secondary education in that part of Međimurje would be very important to create a new wing. to build a high school in Prelog, the more the school itself prepared all the necessary documentation. And I'm saying it would be good if the Ministry, given all these projects that have now been proposed in the budget, had yet been included in our large project Međimurje, so that, if we could raise the level of education to a little higher level. So please vote. I'm asking for support for a high school in Prelog.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77240	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 233rd representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77241	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77242	Who's in favour of that amendment. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 234th Representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77243	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77244	Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Well, dear Minister, I'm surprised to see you here. Because I suggested that items be installed to build a crafts school in Koprivnica. The business facility, therefore, was promised three times by Deputy Prime Minister Polancec this year to be built. Now that you and Minister Shuker were in trouble, then you called the prime minister. But does the Vice-President of the Government really not know what the High School Act is or promises what the state budget will not finance? He said, "We will build thinking of the government because it spoke on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as Deputy Prime Minister: "We will build a crafts school in Koprivnica". And I guess he thought he'd start building in the term of this government. That's what I'm proposing right now. You're saying it's illegal. I don't know what's in there anymore? But I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77247	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77248	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77249	So I suggested for the fourth time to build a high school building in the Križevci where students go completely unconditional, they have completely unconditional spaces for this. I repeat that we are the only county where in four years no school has been built money from the State budget. And as for "EIB 2" I must say that the projects for "EIB 2" were reported for Easter 2004. Unfortunately, to this day we do not know which of these projects will be approved at all? So not that we might have already had built schools from the project "EIB 2" but by today we still don't know which projects are and which projects aren't in "EIB 2"? And if you start building a school and you report to "EIB-2" and God forbid you get money you won't be able to get your funds back because then your project is in phase, the design phase. Therefore, "EIB 2" slowed down the construction of schools in the Republic of Croatia because the simple decision-making process lasts longer than two years. That's inadmissible. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77250	Who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 236th group of representatives: Biserka Perman, Slavko Linić, Anton Peruško, Zdenko Antešić and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77251	The amendment is not accepted for reasons such as the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77252	Pearl Perman, the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77253	Thank you very much. The introduction of a state degree and reform of vocational education has led to changes in secondary education that require the provision of adequate spatial capacities. To this end, the Primorje-Gorski County has reported co-financing of capital projects in secondary schools from state budget funds. Here I wonder why the Ministry's notice of such a possibility to report projects if these applications are not respected regardless of their justification and the stage in which the projects are located. In addition to the basic condition that investment in declared capital projects will reduce the number of shifts at the School of Education of the County also took into account the number of students, eligibility of investments, building opportunities according to the Urbanist Plan, insurance, infrastructure and preparedness of the project documentation, as well as the possibility of including units of local self-government in the implementation of the project. I wonder which of these criteria are the Ministry's criteria? These capital investment projects by 2010 in 4 secondary schools would achieve their functioning in one separate location and not as so far by implementing part of their educational programmes in sub-optimal areas, including a programme of physical and health culture, which would solve the shift work for a total of 3259 pupils in the secondary school of Rijeka. We therefore propose to co-finance these capital investments in secondary schools in those amounts from the State budget. I'm asking nicely for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77254	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 237. Representative Happy Ferenczak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77255	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is: for 2007 the public needs of sport Croatian Olympic Committee has been provided with funds of more than 7 and a half million kuna compared to 2006. Of which 2 and a half million from the State budget, 5 million from the revenue from gambling. Otherwise, it is known that the promotion of public need for sport, that we also use the resources from the part of the game's income to grow every year, and this year we plan to be bigger than ever before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77256	Representative Happy Ferenczak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77257	Well, Mr. Minister, it's like we're not reading the same budget. You're telling me this is one of the biggest sports singles ever. We're 8 million in... minus, less than it was in 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You, Mr. Minister, will remain in writing as the minister who at least singled out for sports. 0.07% of you are out of the sports budget, for the Croatian Olympic Committee. 0.07%. So it's a disaster. And I didn't expect you to make such arguments. It means nothing. You haven't given me any arguments. I'll tell you something else. When you talk about sports, your mouth is full of praise. Now that you've had to do something, none of it. I've shown very nicely on the donation item to non-profit organizations. In the Ministry of Culture, means associations dealing with the protection of cultural monuments 120 million kuna is there. Well, you love sports as much as you talk, so you could sit down with Mr. Bishop and give at least 10 million to the sport. It would help a lot. I know Perice that water polo is asking for money from the Croatian Olympic Committee. Lino handball borrows money. The Arab basketball lends the same money. I ask you to support me in the Croatian Assembly...... that's... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Money [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to be given more money for Croatian sport [[Intruder: Peace!]] I'm looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Peace!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77258	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 238th Representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77259	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77260	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 239th Representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77261	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the AP77029 activity encourages sport in school sports clubs in part also finance the promotion of sport of the school population which is the basis for the development of sports on Croatian islands, which guarantees the implementation of the 2007 plan. I can write that for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77262	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77263	Oh, look. The continuing problem of the free time organization of young people on the islands... pointed out the need to resolve the problem in part at least. [[Because of the President's bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] The 150,000 kuna pilot project through the 2005 budget showed that there was really nothing that could be done with these minors, so unfortunately this year the project gave up. And the problem of young islanders' free time still exists. Now this project appears again but again with a truly symbolic amount, taking into account the number of islands as well as the number of young people on them. The amount is insufficient even to buy uniforms, let alone for a more serious program of any sports activities. If this activity is financed in some other paragraphs, I wonder what the £200,000 is planned for, and therefore I propose that this project be implemented with the above-mentioned increase that the ministry would deploy to several island communities with a number of young people who have already launched sports activities programmes in order to achieve, apart from the symbolic, some real effect and thus get a realistic picture of the results of this project, that is, its perspective in the future. However, unless you intend to do so, I see no reason for these 200,000 to remain because I really do not know on which island, or on which islands 200 thousand can trigger a dispute. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77264	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 240th Representativeplatmir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77265	The amendment is not accepted for reasons that also in the activities of A768028 sports programs during summer and winter holidays open school provides about a million and a half kuna for those programs that aim to gather children of primary and secondary schools during summer and winter holidays. And as this project is intended for these children then this funding can be implemented from this activity. But otherwise, youth sports games have been fully supported by this ministry since the beginning, or since its founding.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77266	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77267	So, I have suggested that youth sports games are finally defined as a special item in the state budget and that is the fourth time and define one serious figure of two million kunas for several thousand young people who spend their summers on sports fields and on public fields playing various sports, and then finally come to the finals in Split. I'm surprised that Prime Minister Splitan, that you, Minister of Split, must ask that I, as Podravec, seek this item that every year you tell me that it exists in some sort of item, and then Maric must call you at any moment to give him some money. So finally define this one wonderful project. It's called "drug sport". Indeed, there are several thousand elementary schools and high school students who are in public spaces all summer and then come to the beautiful City of Split for the finals. So don't give them crumbs. Let's define them... Let's focus them! [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Yeah. So, give not a million and a half kuna, so give some serious money for these activities during summer and winter holidays and periods when children have a free time problem anyway to reward those enthusiasts who gather them to take them away from TVs, from some dark corners where they may be fixed, and here they are engaged in sports. I'm asking you to really vote on this and please let us know how many sports games young people have won this year, because you promised in the rebalancing that you'd give them some money.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77268	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 241st representative Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77269	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Sport Act, the construction of standards for the construction of sports buildings and the construction of swimming grounds that will create a comprehensive plan for the Republic of Croatia, and now the amount of a million-and-a-half kuna used from last year and for the following year is as a pilot project of training for non-plyers in schools and environments that do not have their own pools.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77270	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77271	Mr. Minister, the budget isn't about a million and a half. It's about a million kuna. That's the first one. Secondly, this proposal here is independent of the construction of sports halls and swimming grounds in Croatia. There are swimming pools like there are programs in elementary schools where children are trained and raised among other things for life and working in nature. At that time, existing swimming pools and children can be used to go to these, organized to these segments where they are trained in nature and at the same time swimming training. It's not just about sports-recreative education and education, although the state encourages and helps care about body culture and sports as the Constitution says in Article 68, or I don't know how to take care of children where it is explicitly said that the state provides special care for minors or that it is a duty for all to protect children and powerless persons, but it is about something far more important. It is about acquiring a skill that is, in fact, the modern - day need of a modern - day man. Unfortunately, we on the continent, especially in the area of Slavonia, northern Croatia, in the vicinity of our rural areas and cities, have such a situation that many children and older minors and older, younger minors do not know how to swim and, therefore, what happens during the summer days, to drown in our rivers, lakes and waterways, and therefore it would be necessary as a teaching content, one part of the items actually increase these funds to be used. Today's schools want to take advantage of this because I know of some surveys conducted by NGOs in the area of for example Slavonia and Baranja there is a great interest only lacks the means to analyse this part and in this respect we suggest that until all these facilities are built to raise some little funding for programs that will practically enable, we achieve the same purpose that we will achieve even more easily when we have quality halls. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77272	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 242. Representative Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77273	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is a completely new activity of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports division 080 chapters 30 Sport. The Croatian Sports Federation of the Deaf is established under the Law on Sports of the National Journal 71/06, and the funds planned for the Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf are secured from the part of the gambling revenue that is on the rise every year and we assume that everything that is necessary from these funds will be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77274	Representative Happy Ferenczak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77275	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, just because it's a new alliance. And that we have so far worked on the Croatian Olympic Committee. A million kuna to the Sports Federation of the Deaf isn't enough for a cold drive either. The sports alliance of the deaf has exceptional results at the global and European level. They spoke to you, too. Now you're all deaf to their pleas. Well, it's not clear to me that you don't have that much sensitivity for those people who want to play sports, and you wouldn't give it to them. Well, a million kunas a year is nothing, it's nothing. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77276	He didn't get the necessary majority. 243rd club of IDS representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77277	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the 2001 basic school law. And this project hasn't been reported to EIB 2 or World Bank projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77278	Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77279	Mr. Minister, since we have a new municipality in Istria, Funtana, we believe that it is precisely that community that deserves to have one gym. And this value, this amount we've suggested here, we think that at least part of it can help to make a gym in that new community. So please vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77280	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 244. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77281	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77282	Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77283	Mr. Minister, same thing. Tar-vabriga is also a new municipality in Istria. I don't think that without a sports hall, youth simply doesn't have the opportunity to engage in sports, especially during the winter period. So I'm asking for a vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77284	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 245th of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77285	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that in the proposal of the state budget for the completion of the Faculty of Economics, tourism "Doctor Mio Mirkovic" proposed the amount for the year 9 million kuna, and the signing agreement is under way with the County of Istria and the City of Pula and absolutely all the funds have been made available so that the Faculty of Economics and Tourism can be completed. No other proposal has come to the construction of the campus and, in the opinion of the colleague, takes time to do so and therefore the amendment is rejected. He doesn't actually accept it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77286	Representative Valter Drndić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77287	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, these are actually, this concerns the next amendment to the Faculty of Economics. This amendment refers to the construction of a university centre or campus where there is also a certain space for that university centre, for a new university. We thought it would be good for certain initial means to encourage it. However, given that certain funds are secured by these amendments to the Government, I am then withdrawing Amendments 245 and 246 in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77288	Thank you. Amendment 245 withdrawn. 246th Retired and these two amendments have been withdrawn? Thank you. Amendment 247 of MP Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77289	The amendment is not accepted. The National Foundation for Science and Higher Education in the Republic of Croatia as well as all other national foundations in Europe and the world are also funded from other sources, and so far they have been financed exclusively from the state budget and of course from interest profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77290	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77291	Mr. Minister, unfortunately, the position of the ministry, or government that you have now expressed, is the opposite of the position of your ministry and the government that you said when we had a debate on this year's reports on the work of the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education and Technology Development. Because it was precisely all the MPs in the Croatian Parliament and MPs who asked to raise funds for the National Foundation because it was estimated that 5 million kunas of separation from the state budget for the National Foundation were too little for those needs and projects that the foundation implemented. The Foundation has been functioning for two or three years, it seems to me, for two cycles, that there have been some competitions among young scientists and scientists returning from exactly the super excellence that exists in Croatian science and technology is recognised as a good place. I don't think it's a good idea for us to cut resources for the National Foundation. We've never less singled out than this high education budget provides for 5 million kuna from that part of technology is reduced to zero kuna. So I don't think that's good. I would like to appeal to my colleagues and colleagues, especially those who, when we discussed the report, to the annual report of the National Foundation for Science and Technology Development, and who advocated the increase of funds from the state budget at that time to support amendments as well. Because otherwise all those debates and otherwise pawning the declarative really don't make any sense. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77292	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 248th Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77293	The amendment is not accepted. Since so far an increase of 33.33% or slightly more than 15 million kunas towards us is enough for all needs and obligations towards students in the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77294	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77295	The minister you're talking about? The funds for improving the November standard amounted to 94 million kuna in 2003. In your first budget in 2004, you reduced them to 60 million kuna. In the 2005 budget, this remained at $60 million. The 2006 budget left that 60 million kuna plus that you abolished all transfer funds to associations, students' associations and the Student Assembly. And in this budget there are 60 million kunas left. I don't understand how 60 is more than 94 million kuna. And what I'm asking by amendment is to return funds to improve the November standard at least to this level that they had in 2003. On the other hand, your amendment to the government when you added a million kuna to the student centres you indirectly admitted that there was not enough funds to invest in the November standard, there were transfers to the student associations, either according to the student centres, or through this activity improving the November standard. So I believe I'm right, and I believe that you do, too. And lastly, students of the student centres announced a strike and said, for years they have been saying how impossible it is to work and maintain standards, a standard of November according to the applicable criteria and according to the applicable rules relative to the funds. And I'd really like to ask you to raise funds to improve the standard of November because, to correct myself, not to increase it, but to bring it back to the level they were at. I've really never been this little money for a November standard. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77296	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 249th Amendment, MPs Jelena Pavića Vukičević, Marija Lugarić, Ivo Josipovic, Nenad Stazić and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77297	The amendment is not accepted. For the reason that the draft state budget provides funds for the completion of all start-up and priority capital projects, which are financed from funds somewhere around 2.3 billion kuna at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77298	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77299	It's ministers for that part of yours. This is about funding for the Music Academy. By amending tax laws, the government reduced funds for the City of Zagreb and took the City of Zagreb 800 million kuna. We had five or six national projects financed partly from the City of Zagreb budget, building a building and equipment of the music academy, this case refers to the fact that the part actually co-financed by the City of Zagreb is now being transferred to the state's full funding since the government has taken 800 million kuna into its budget changes of tax laws to the City of Zagreb. And it is that your share remains the same and sufficient, but that part of the City of Zagreb cannot remain the same since the government has taken citizens of the City of Zagreb on projects important for both the city and the state of 800 million kuna. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77300	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 250, representatives Anton Peruško, Slavko Linić, Gordana Sobol, Zdenko Antešić and Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77301	The amendment is not accepted. We explained it in detail five minutes ago. However, the proposal for a state budget for the completion of the Faculty of Economics and Tourism is the only investment that... has not been reported in the amount of 9 million kuna, which is in full with the County Istrian and city of Pula. No other proposal came about building a campus or a university in Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77302	Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77303	Thank you. Mr. Minister, unlike the IDS club, I've been looking for a much smaller amount for what reason. For that very reason, the promises made at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held in Poreč on 7 November and where the daily newspapers are literally "will arrive in Pula 9 million kunas from the State Budget for 2007 which is the amount needed to complete the Faculty of Economics and Tourism building Dr. Mijo Mirkovic" and it's in the budget, that's fine. However, it goes on to say that the government has also supported the city of Pula project to edit the student hotel and restaurants in Roic, I just want that support that is given to materialise by introducing in the only possible way, by putting into the budget for next year, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77304	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 251, representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77305	The amendment is not accepted because the State Budget proposal provides sufficient funding for all projects and programmes of scientific and research activities especially because for the first time in the Republic of Croatia there is order on scientific projects, international reviews and the percentage of passages with 90% decreases certainly what it means is that there remains money for rewarding excellence, and here I do not mention additional funding through the Science Foundation which currently has almost 100 million kuna on the account.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77306	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77307	Mr. Minister, with this moving call to the National Science Foundation, I will not comment at all because we have another amendment on this subject, since it reduces funding for the National Foundation. However, you are also reducing funding for programmes and research projects, although what you have said about international reviews and reducing the percentage of passivity is precisely what you are saying, however, is that it is the level we now have of separations is sufficient. I will warn you that you are now proposing to allocate €142.5 million for programmes and research projects, that in 2003 we have allocated €185 million for the same projects that you are then significantly reducing. On the other hand, the budget is increasing and your ministry is increasing by almost 8.5 or 9 billion kuna, which almost none of that increase as we can see by these amendments, is not going into these major development projects. I therefore ask the vote because I think that as much as we single out and as much as we increase the resources for the amendments here to isolate science and technology into new knowledge, we need a lot more than that to start reaching those other and more developed and those we would like to compare with, and now, because of the little separation, unfortunately, we can't. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77308	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 252 amendments by the representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77309	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposal for a state budget provides sufficient funding for the scholarship and scientific training of graduates. The signing of an agreement with the Rectors of all universities in the Republic of Croatia is under way with regard to the reduction of tuition for the scientific training of graduates in the system of science and higher education, which will be additional assistance on your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77310	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77311	Minister, do you know what the tuition is for one year for postgraduate studies in Croatia? Double the average salary of recruits or assistants or any beginner professor at universities. If you think that the resources you've planned for the scientific training and scholarship of graduates are enough then you say that we have enough and that we don't need them anymore, and I think we need new graduates and that we need to allow a greater number of people special scientific training. As representatives to me, I believe you as a minister also writes to the masses of these young people of the best quality in Croatia that there is no one to pay them to go to congresses, that there is no one to pay for the purchase of professional books and other things, and you say there is enough. ... You say there's enough. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In 2003, we singled out for the scholarship of graduates and their scientific training of 10 million 384 thousand 334 kuna and 68 limes per execution for 2003, now it is only proposed... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77312	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 253, also representing Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77313	The amendment is not accepted and it has been said earlier that the National Science Foundation has so far been financed exclusively from the State budget and it has been said that separately you have said about 5 million kunas, but there are more than 100 million kunas in the account and practically no kuna from some other funds than interest from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77314	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77315	I read respected ministers this draft budget for 2007, the Ministry of Science in this chapter scientific research activity and watch science foundation programmes, high education and technological development of zero kunas, and I think it might be some kind of printing error, if we've significantly reduced resources for the national foundation from this head of higher education, now zero kunas from this part of the scientific research activity of the transfer that should go towards the national foundation. I think it's totally unacceptable, and we're all talking about a knowledge society, a land of knowledge, for new, best projects, projects of excellence that are just going through a zero kuna trust fund. It's a very nice policy. I think Croatia is extremely bad and backward. I ask the vote to change such a policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77316	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 254 amendments, MP Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77317	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the state budget proposal provides sufficient resources that have increased by 13.56% compared to 2006. Let me be more specific. In 2006, 18 million 945, in 2007, 17,416, however, no capital investments were included from this display, 4 million and 98 thousand kuna, which means a total of 21 million and 500 kuna. These capitals include books, works of art and all and other exhibition values when summed up, the amount is higher than it is shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77318	Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77319	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's a national and university library. I must say that I wondered whether I should even put this amendment on the Committee on Science, on culture, science and education as the Committee's position agreed to warn the Government that the National and University Library is lagging behind and it is lagging very seriously. She is 2 million behind the budget she had in 2005. So, those of you who think I'm going to talk about 2003, I'm going to do it again. For 2005. What Mr. Minister says is not true. This is only true compared to 2006 because in 2006 the capital expenditure item included the purchase of books, magazines and necessary equipment with zero kunas. So that's where they grew much more because relative to 0 is that much bigger increase. However, compared to 2005, there is still little, little less with this 2 million kuna bill. I would like to warn you that the National and University Library is one, not one but one of the perhaps strongest institutions in the knowledge society that we all stand for. That this is one of the central cultural and scientific institutions in Croatia at all and that this is an unimaginable growth, therefore, of the budget in total inconceivable that now that it has entered the European system, when standards are set, when there are legal obligations to carry out its obligations by obtaining books, by obtaining equipment, when a huge digitalisation programme is implemented that is related to many changes. When this year celebrates the 400th anniversary as one of the oldest of all institutions of this species, it cannot yet reach the 2005 budget level. That's sorry for this Parliament and for all of us embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77320	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 255th Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77321	The amendment is not accepted. I'll explain it in detail. For the first time in history, the ministry's budget passes 10 billion kuna, i.e. 10 billion and 400. As far as technology is concerned, a step has been made which is in some segments ahead of the European Union. It is based on the Croatian Institute of Technology. Technology projects are being fully extracted as an item and attributed to the Croatian Institute of Technology, BICRO participates in obtaining a total loan for technology development. Somewhere in total, the loan is about 31m euros. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia, the money for technology development has never been nearly as much as it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77322	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77323	Dear Ministers, if the funding for technological research and development activities is completely thrown out of the budget through this institute as you said, then how does it stay in the budget of 24 and a half million kunas that you have proposed? That's one thing. Secondly, what you've done in the last year that you've formed seems to me to be 4 or 5 new agencies or various different institutions which, in any case, well, should be removed, that decision out of the ministry, but the administration has never been greater. By no single person, no lip has reduced the costs of the administration in the ministry itself to the fact that the administration has moved elsewhere. And to finish, regardless of all this together because since these money that you're talking about goes to that administration of all these new institutions and institutes or whatever, the funds, it is the core of the funds that are relevant to the programmes and projects themselves in the technological and research development activity from year to year. And I have therefore proposed to increase to 34 million 439 thousand and 220 kuna after the execution in 2003, since this level has so far been the highest for this purpose that we had in the state budget. Talking about a knowledge-based economy and reducing resources to develop new technologies for research and development activities is very empty and in some ways even cheap. I therefore ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77324	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 256, also representing Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77325	The amendment is not accepted, but I will add to the reason. So, to date, some 300 technology projects have been implemented in Croatia, of which at least 1/3 have gone towards the economy that Croatia has never had before. Regarding the increase in the budget, it increased by 15.02% compared to 2006 with another note that the first time a public-private partnership took place in the realisation of new scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, Ruđer Boskovic, Institute... And the rest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is a contribution to the development of technologies that are not visible at all in the budget, which is at least 50% of the total assets that are not shown there. Magnified.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77326	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77327	Very interesting, Minister. Minister Shuker said there's no funds in the budget that aren't shown, and now you're explaining to us that we have funds that aren't shown anywhere. But when I mentioned Minister Shucker, the government minister said yesterday that, the amendments to the MPs were just folklore and that nothing new was proposed. Here I would now deny Minister Shuker and say that here I am proposing a completely new item that is not in the current budget. It's called the development of new products and technologies. This is the item we had in the state budget until you abolished it and I mean talking about a knowledge-based economy, talking about a knowledge-based society without investing in the development of new products technology is actually pointless and represents just one false promise. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77328	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 257, MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77329	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the National Budget Proposal 08055A679049 provides sufficient resources for us to finance Bosnia and Herzegovina's support programme in the system of science, education and sports, and also stresses that individual projects cannot be proposed but that the funds have been allocated after the competition. I personally went through Bosnia and Herzegovina three times along and across and for every project that was applied made sure it was needed or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77330	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77331	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Since you've been over and over, I'm asking you to stop by toliss to look at the Franciscan monastery with one of the oldest libraries that includes historical, ethnological, cultural building to be preserved. The monastery began to be saved and renewed on the basis of donation funds. It's not up until the end. It is necessary to preserve extremely valuable historical works in the library in that monastery. Besides, there's a museum and, of course, rebuild this church. And when it comes to this new church of Michael Archangels in the Mosquitos, I would just like to remind myself that it was almost a humanitarian action that sent a scrape and bricks there to build a church in the place where the church was destroyed during the Homeland War. That's why we're asking Mr. Minister to take care of it, so come by when you've been going around these places to see it first and second you know the 27 million that's supposed to be there we've suggested that it increase to 35 million. We didn't get past that amendment either. Now there is not a concrete amendment, and I would like to remind you that these 27 million will not be enough to finance the needs of the cultural art society "Progress" in Bosnia and Herzegovina, universities in Mostar and I do not know the educational and educational content in certain secondary and primary schools in Mostar-Neretva County, let alone in Bosnia Posavina. I am afraid that one part will also be very important for the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular from the aspect of the return of the citizens of the Republic... I ask you, however, that if you do not accept this amendment today, that is, it does not pass through the budget to find an opportunity to redistribute and invest these funds in this space because these funds are not only the restoration of these cultural, historical monuments and religious contents but also the points around which they will both gather and vomit, they are returning our people to those areas. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77332	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 258th representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77333	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposal for a state budget at the position of the Agency for Adult Education provides us with sufficient resources to carry out the activity in the amount of 8 million 427 thousand 545 kuna, which is almost 150% more than the previous funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77334	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77335	Dear Minister Primorac, regardless of what Minister Shuker says the amendments are only folklore and that no new items are proposed, I have proposed that this amendment add to the budget a new item, which is said to be basic education and training of young and adults. Today, we know that too many people still do not have completed primary school in Croatia and in the state budget, but we do not have an insurance fund in the Agency for Adult Education for Basic Training and Description of Youth and Adults. For example, when we talk to protégés from certain nursing homes or older adults who do not have a primary school, they often tell us that primary school cannot be completed because they have no place to pay. It seems to me that in a country that has so many illiterate, so many people who haven't finished primary school that we don't single out a single lip on your proposal for basic education and a description of those who haven't acquired that basic education. So I would ask you to accept this amendment, I will agree to any other amount than I suggested here, but it's really silly simply that we don't have the means for basic training adults who don't have a primary school, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77336	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 259th representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77337	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that in the final draft state budget, and that was your wish and all of us provided for the first time at the Agency for Education and Education sufficient resources for the professional training of teachers, which is the opinion of the Head of the Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77338	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77339	Dear Ministers, I do not know what the opinion of the Head of the Agency is, but I know the teacher's opinion, and that was one of the requests of the strike that was just completed to ensure sufficient resources for their professional training and that this existing one, in your opinion and in the opinion of the Head of the Agency, is not sufficient, so I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77340	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Next amendment by MP Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77341	The amendment is not accepted for reasons like before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77342	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77343	What I added to the last amendment here is also about the professional training of teachers, this is now for primary schools. I'd like to talk to you once about our priorities in the budget. We're perfecting teachers here at primary schools, and you're predicting that we're giving out 6.5 million kunas. At the same time, in the state budget for reconstruction, reconstruction, pardon for the reconstruction of the office building, the Cube stands out almost 14 million kuna. I know it's not yours, but the thing is, for the reconstruction of a business building in which two ministries are located, we're spending more than double the amount of money on teaching teachers in elementary schools. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77344	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And another amendment by the respected representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77345	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposal for a state budget position of the Education and Education Agency provides sufficient resources for human rights education.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77346	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77347	Minister, do you know how much in the state budget for human rights education? 278 thousand kuna for all schools in Croatia, for all students in Croatia and for all their teachers. 278,000 kuna for human rights education and you think that's enough. I don't think so, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77348	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77349	Thank you, Mr. President, and esteemed parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77350	Thank you very much. We are now in the position of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Minister Neven Ljubicic. Mr Sime Lučin's representative Amendment 262.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77351	The amendment is not accepted. A position for which it is actually intended and secured from the World Bank's loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77352	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77353	The funds are secured at World Bank positions, the World Bank loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77354	Well, since you didn't tell me that this project was going to be implemented, and I believe you were in Trogir and you saw what that space looks like, I'd be begging for a vote. I think that the citizens of Trogir would be very grateful to you, especially those who receive social assistance, but not only as citizens, but above all I think that they would be grateful to you and HDZ himself, because then he should not be in pre-good days, especially before election time to share the social assistance of 300 kuna to the citizens of Trogir, but all of this could happen in adequate areas of social care. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77355	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 263. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77356	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, careful reading could show that this position is in its own income. So the funds will go out of their own income.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77357	Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77358	Dear Ministers, then it is really necessary to read very carefully because the proposed budget does not provide sufficient resources for the construction of the Centre for Social Care in Petrinja. I remind myself of a meeting of the government held in Sisak on 26.10, where much has been promised, in this budget, almost nothing is visible and really from this proposal where much has been promised. In this budget, almost nothing is visible. And indeed, from this draft budget, it is clear that there are insufficient resources not provided. So I really don't know how you intend to keep your promise. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77359	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 264. Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77360	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the ministry predicted the amount of funds in that position and according to withdrawal dynamics during 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77361	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77362	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, you seem wrong after all. The right to other people’s care and assistance for people who are immobilized because of their difficult health conditions, are immobilizing, going to chemotherapy, dialysis needs the help of another person in the full range is 100% basic and 400 kuna, respectively. I ask you, Mr. Minister, do you think 400 kunas is enough to help an immobilized person for a month? In doing so, I stress that the basis has not been changed since 2001. Just to respect the inflation that was in that period, you should raise 18% of the base and accordingly I have put forward a proposal for an amendment. I'm asking for a statement because this is how you show that this is not a social program, a budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77363	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 265. Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77364	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are practically the same as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77365	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77366	Thank you very much. The right to a personal disability has a severe physical or mental impairment or a person whose illness or damage has occurred up to 18 years of life. The basic disability is 250% of the base or thousands of kuna. I can also ask you, Mr. Minister, about such persons most often taken by parents who are not employed very often 24 hours in the family. I ask you that such persons are placed in an institution like home then the ministry would pay between 5 and 7 thousand kuna, and in this way, by not voting this amendment we all live on these parents in fact, saving but obviously saving in the wrong place because accommodation in the home would pay a lot more. And where is social and social justice? Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77367	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 266th Amendment of Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77368	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as for the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77369	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77370	Thank you very much. So I must also say that maintenance assistance if you look at statistical indicators, a four-member family with two children and no income has the right to help 340% of the base, or a thousand 360 kunas of monthly aid. The paradox is that the base hasn't been raised, so it's also the height since 2001. If we count inflation, it would be about 18% increase for the base. Meanwhile, average salaries and average pensions also increased. And we come to the fact that censorships are actually raised and a good part of people who deserve social assistance and support can't get that kind of help. I ask for a statement from this House because you again show that you are not socially sensitive enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77371	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 267th amendment, also represented by Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77372	The amendment is also not accepted and the reason is the same as for the previous three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77373	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77374	Thank you very much. Well, again, I must point out that since 2001, Mr. Minister, there has been no change of base. This is about people who are in foster families, who should be raised, and children, so we have older people who are in foster families. It is precisely because of these low amounts that for a thousand 300 or a thousand 400 kuna for a person of the state, all responsibility would be removed from it and such persons in the homeland would be paid far more. Do you feel that those who take children into foster care should not be paid as much as those children should have everything they need and in accordance with those children who live in families? Obviously, you don't think and therefore don't follow the increase and the increase in inflation and you show that you're not socially sensitive enough. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77375	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 268. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77376	The amendment is not accepted. The reason is the same as in the previous four amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77377	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77378	I suggested increasing the item from which it is paid amounts to children in foster families. The fee they receive is between a thousand 460 and a thousand 550 kuna and has not been changed since 2002. Unlike children in foster families, the state should therefore have the same care and care of children without adequate family care for salaries between 5 and 11 thousand kunas and the only one should have the same care and care of the state because they are all children to whom the state should compensate, therefore, inadequate family care. Since the UNICEF programme is also encouraged to increase the number of children in foster families and not to increase the item at all, it is not only asking whether or not and it is obvious that this amount will not be increased for children in foster families but also that those new children who will be able to move from home to foster families will receive a certain amount of funds. And not to mention the status of foster parents has not been resolved in any way. So they have no working status or health and pension status, but they have a whole series of other problems. It is difficult on the one hand to declare family policy and on the other hand to have no sense of having the same care for the same children and not to distinguish them from whether they are in foster families or in homes. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77379	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 269. Representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77380	The amendment is not accepted. The home for children Koprivnica is planned to be resolved through a public private partnership programme and therefore no new position is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77381	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77382	Well, even for a public private partnership, you need to open up a position, because you have to... So how are you gonna do it? That's what we in the city budgets have to have a position. I don't know what you're like. Minister Shuker, how is this not necessary for a public private partnership to open a position? Therefore, neither for a public private partnership nor for a public private partnership it is necessary to open a position. You know that a decision was made at the government meeting in Koprivnica to return from 1.1.2009 and to build a new House for Children "Sprivnica" in Koprivnica as a new facility and to move the children to that facility and if we want to realize that decision then the home must certainly start next year to build not from 1.1. but from school year 2008/2009. The children moved into that new home. But I'm asking the vote because it's really the first time that for... you do not have to have an item in the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77383	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 270th Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77384	The amendment is not accepted. According to the 2001 Law, the Ministry of Health and Social Care cannot provide funding in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77385	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77386	I don't know, Minister. It's some kind of mistake. We didn't seem to understand each other very well. That the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare should not care for older and powerless persons and not in Samobor. Well, look, who do you think should build those homes then? You want them to build themselves? They're old and powerless people, they can't build it for themselves. If they could, they wouldn't even need a country, but what kind of minister they'd better have if they didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77387	This isn't right. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 271st representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77388	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, measures are planned to resuscitate Dom for mentalally ill adults Trogir at two levels and this in the first level encourages the hygienic standard and is provided with the funds of 600 thousand kuna by ensuring that further activities are carried out during 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77389	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77390	Mr. Minister, I believe you know it's about what's on the coast almost downtown... city very attractive location. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it could be a five-star hotel and go into the adaptation of an existing facility I think is insane. I think both the state and the local self-government unit could profit and earn more money, only the project needs to be launched. Since the representatives of the local government are unable to do so, for three years they have been reluctant to continue what is on the agenda, I am asking my fellow MPs to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77391	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 272. Representatives Anton Peruško and Slavko Linić, Gordana Sobol, Zdenko Antešić and Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77392	The amendment is not accepted. Secured funds are absolutely sufficient and we plan to open a home by May at the latest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77393	Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77394	I'd be overjoyed by the Minister if that were the case. It is a project that the former government has established and started and unfortunately until today is not completed and the needs are unfortunately increasing every day. I know reliably that with the resources available and participating in funding and local self-government and regional and local and regional self-government, especially after the adoption of this new law, Istarska County remains one calculation without 7.5 million and one without 11. Which is more than we can give up on this project, and we won't give up. And I'd be happy if this were exactly what you said, but I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77395	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 273. Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77396	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the answer is the same as the amendment under regular number 270. The Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Social Care 2001 passed the founding rights at homes for older and powerless with the presence of the County and the City of Zagreb, and the following ministry cannot invest in such institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77397	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77398	Yes, it is in accordance with the law, but also in accordance with the Constitution, the Republic of Croatia helps those units of local self-government which cannot provide enough money for their budgets because of the difficult situation, Article 137(3). The Constitution. I would like to remind you that this is a home for the elderly and the powerless who, among other things, built with the help of the international donations of the Croatian Red Cross, that this house was also affected by the weather, that the roof was torn down, etc. and that the next phase of home building should now be opened. Now, look. The city... There's no money as a unit of local self-government that, the founder who should be Vukovar-Srijem County, you know for yourself what kind of situation he's in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the only one who can take care of the area of special state care and the area along the border, and it is about older people who also need to have adequate care and protection of the state and the social community, is actually a state. Therefore, we have nothing left to ask for this kind of money, and therefore we ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77399	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 274 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77400	The amendment is not accepted. The answer is practically the same as the amendment before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77401	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77402	Here the story is additional, given the generally known situation in Požega-Slavon County, which is in huge losses in terms of among other things and spending money without cover, bailing, etc., and even for a time has been blocked without talking about these common needs in the field of health, social care etc. It is obvious that in the next few financial years and periods, in fact, Požeko-Slavon County will not be able to provide funds to meet the original incomes of this commitment to its citizens. The home for the elderly and the powerless in Pozega needs to be renovated, and in this respect, these funds that we propose and propose to be reviewed on this vote amendment are essential.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77403	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 275. Mato Arlović and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77404	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as for the amendment before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77405	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77406	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, twenty-six municipalities, two cities and the Brod-Posavina County in this year have the original budget of 400 million kuna. 180 thousand inhabitants are in the area of Brod-Posavina County, and here you are telling us that we will handle it from our own resources. If we had money, no one would be happier than us, we would not even ask for the help of the central state, although we believe it is the central government's obligation to take care of the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia and so the Brod-Posavina County and so the city of Brod, and so this home for the old and powerless persons who were built in '83. And since then, he has suffered what, through the war destruction of considerable damage caused by the teeth of time. I'll tell you the information that from this famous decentralisation you're talking about and we say redistribution of Brod-Posavina County will get a letter and a number of 2.5 million kuna. These two and a half million kunas are not enough just to resuscitate this home for older and powerless people who are indeed in a derivative state and in which, I dare say, they are not the conditions in which to live quality and live or to spend that part of life that many of our fellow citizens who use these services remain. I therefore ask you to reconsider, in the end it is an obligation that you yourself made on September 22nd last year at the 13th session of the Government in Slavonski Brod that you will help not only solve this but also other objects. If you have forgotten the citizens of Brod-Posavina County are not, and they are not particularly residents of this House. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77407	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 274 of the same representatives, or plus.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77408	The amendment is not accepted. The funds and the resources are secured again from the World Bank's loan but this is also visible from budget positions in their own incomes. ... 276. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77409	It is, excuse me, now Amendment 276 of MPs, representative Milanka Opačić and Ivana Posavec-Krivec. 276.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77410	I have submitted this amendment because I think the situation in Stancic is extremely difficult. I think some money has been invested in Stancic lately. And on the other hand, for some information, Mr. Minister, you refused two million dollars of money that was supposed to come to Stancic. You rejected it under the pretext that you are more inclined to do something in the "Stancic" public-private partnership. I must admit that the ease of refusing such a large amount by donors who could have invested that money in "Stancic" is really this much easier for the state, or you think we have money to throw away, so we can give up $2 million. That is why we have proposed, colleague Ivana Posavec and I are asking for at least this amount to help Stancic since the conditions of the life of the protégé really are very low. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77411	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 277th representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77412	The amendment is not accepted. Namely... has finished but a definitely new position with a value of 4 million and 162 thousand kunas has been opened which will be more than enough for secondary school education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77413	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77414	Ministers did not open a new position with 4 million 162 thousand kuna, but it was a position last year of 7 million 888 thousand and 980 kuna. So I can come and show you later. Therefore, the funds for the fight against HIV in this budget are reduced by more than 3 million kuna. The happy or unfortunate circumstance is precisely that today is the International Day of Combating HIV or AIDS, and I think it should be warned that in this budget we are completely removing funds for education in high schools in HIV because it is written in your National Budget Proposal. In the proposal for your state budget next to the item "Education in High Schools on HIV, AIDS", the amount of zero kuna writes. I don't think that's a good thing, and that education should be conducted in high schools on HIV. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77415	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 278, also representing Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77416	The amendment is not accepted. The answer is identical to the amendment before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77417	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77418	The government's proposal from Prime Minister to Minister Ljubicic is to ensure exactly zero kuna in order to increase access to voluntary testing and consultations on HIV in this State budget. On this very day of the Association... warned that 39 new cases of HIV infection, 18 new AIDS patients and 9 deaths were reported in 2006. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our budget, in our budget to increase access to voluntary testing and consultation on HIV, we set aside zero kunas and all those people who have been able to come and get free of charge on HIV will no longer be able to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77419	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 279. also from the representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77420	The amendment is not accepted and the answer is the same as in the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77421	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77422	I will warn the ministers here again by chance working on today, International Day of Fight against HIV that your Ministry and your Government of Psychosocial Assistance to HIV and AIDS have intended a flat zero kuna. With all this, all the funds in the HIV fight budget have been reduced by 3.7 million kuna. Every day HIV infects 11,000 people who are mostly under 30 years old. This is a particular problem for risk groups that then have problems dealing with the stigmatisation in society and I think it is unacceptable since the number of patients in Croatia is growing every day and higher to cover the psychosocial assistance of HIV patients, or AIDS, you have allocated exactly zero kuna. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77423	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 280th also from the representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77424	The amendment is not accepted and the answer is identical to that of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77425	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77426	So in order to reduce the risk of behaviour in the HIV or AIDS risk population, your Government of Minister Ljubic has suggested no more or less than zero kunas, although every year we have an increasing and greater number of HIV patients, or AIDS, and especially in the risk population. In a few years' time, when that number is exponentially disintegrated, then we're going to ask who's responsible for it, and how did that happen to us? It happened to us that for the first time now you are reducing the means to prevent and reduce the risk of behaviour around HIV and that you are at least reducing rather than introducing a clean zero. I don't think that's good, and at least I repeat this last time on today's World HlV Day, or AIDS, that it's not good to cut prevention funds. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77427	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 281st representatives Jelena Pavićic-Vukicevic, Marija Lugarić, Ivo Josipovic, Nenad Stazić and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77428	The amendment does not accept the necessary funds to complete the investment at the Zagreb Clinical Hospital Centre will be provided with a private loan of 500 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77429	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77430	He's a respected minister but you forgot about one thing. And this is that by amending the tax laws of the city of Zagreb, the government took 800 million kuna. And that KBC, KBC Zagreb is a joint project that is co-financed by both the City of Zagreb and the State budget, i.e. from specific credit funds. And therefore these funds will not be sufficient if we want to complete the project in time. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77431	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 282. Representatives Jagoda Martic and Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77432	The amendment is not accepted. It could be clearly read that the funds which are more than sufficient were secured by the Treaty on the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77433	Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77434	In fact, the intensity of writing this amendment was that it was precisely because on several occasions the Split-Dalmatia County was highlighted as a county where there was indeed a problem with the availability of healthcare, since there was only one clinical hospital, that no matter what it is clear to us that the hospital was being invested in and as far as the equipment is concerned and as far as the arrangements mean spatially by certain programmes. But we believe that because of this, such a situation in Split-Dalmatia County should be invested in the Split Clinical Hospital with greater intensity to actually improve its equipment and personnel and as regards personnel and equipment, because that is the only way we will actually succeed and raise the availability of health care for the citizens of this county and that was our intention. That's why we tabled this amendment and I'm asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77435	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 283. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77436	The amendment is not adopted in accordance with the Health Protection Act, which was adopted in 2003. The costs of maintenance, construction, equipment of health institutions are actually the costs of founders. As in this case, the Ministry of Health and Social Care is not the founder then nor can it provide funding in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77437	Representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77438	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know it's a county facility but we need to be aware that in Talasotherapy Crikvenica is building a baro chamber, and we know that for the purposes of tourism, as well as the treatment of our people, this baro chamber is necessary because we know that one in Pula is private, and the next is only in Split. And I think saving lives is important and goes beyond just a county facility and that really the Ministry of Health should help in this case and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77439	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 284. IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77440	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as the amendment before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77441	Representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77442	We at IDS are also aware that this facility is county. However, we also know that in our society the most cardiovascular diseases are dying and that the institution is being treated mostly from all over Croatia, not just from our county, so we believe that the ministry should also participate in the project. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77443	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 285th Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77444	The amendment is not accepted. The government has made a decision on 60 million kunas distributed in three years to equip the General Hospital Zabok, which is absolutely enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77445	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77446	I ask that funds be increased in this position given that the construction area is completed and that the hospital should be equipped. It's a whole new building and equipment it in three years means patients won't be able to use their services for three years. Namely, I also have in my hand a memo from your administration, i.e. the Department of Professional Medical Affairs of the Department of Hospital and Health Care, in which specific means are needed to equip this hospital. This was done on 10 November 2005 and should be allocated from the budget in two years 100 million and 40,000 kuna. Therefore, all one or all fifths in the first year means that the hospital will not be in office at all, and I ask that votes be voted on on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77447	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 286 MPsplatimir Sabati, Miroslav Cacia and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77448	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77449	Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. 287 MPs Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77450	The amendment is not accepted. The funds are secured from the Council of Europe Fair as seen in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77451	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 288. Mato Arlović and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77452	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are related to the law, which means that the Ministry of Health and Social Care cannot provide in the state budget funds for the construction and equipment of the hospital in Slavonski Brod since it is the founder of the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77453	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77454	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am absolutely sure that you knew that last September 22nd in Slavonski Brod at the meeting of the 13th session of the Croatian Government when you promised to personally do everything and that this project will be supported both by you and the Government headed by Dr. Eve Sanader. Unfortunately, that's when we got the answer that it would come from decentralised funds. I said, well, I'll do it again if you've forgotten the citizens of the City of Brod, and especially those who are sick in need of these services certainly aren't. If we had the money, we wouldn't be asking for the help of the central state and it would probably be easier for you and the government, but for us both in Slavonski Brod and in Brod-Posavina County today, but it would be easier. The ship's hospital and you're witnessing yourself belongs to a category of excellent hospitals, general hospitals. If I'm not mistaken, 1200 are employees of experts who can do wonders when it comes to health care. So, great human potential. However, we are technologically lagging behind, and as we see more and more financially. If it is judged by your firm definition we will come as soon as Požega-Slavon County in a state of bankruptcy and there will be nothing we can do to ensure the minimum living conditions and working conditions of our fellow citizens. I ask you to take care of the City of Brod, the Brod-Posavina County, this hospital, as we have taken care of all other parts of Croatia during the war. I think we also need to share wealth, but also the poor woman so I invite you once again, but also your colleagues to support this project, to help us catch up with other developed parts of the Republic of Croatia. I think that's what the citizens and the City of Brod and the Posavina County deserve. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77455	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough votes. 289th Representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77456	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77457	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. 290th Representatives Biserka Perman, Zdenko Antešić, Slavko Linić, Antun Peruško and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77458	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77459	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77460	Although I have not received any explanation for why the amendment is not accepted, I must say that there is a need for 140 places for accommodation and long-term treatment of an adult mental patient, and the basis of a decision on the establishment of a social welfare network and the social care activities that you have brought to you, Mr. Minister. From the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, there are 190 persons in the area of the Republic of Croatia for accommodation and long-term treatment. The only existing institution in the county is home for mentally ill adults "Turnic", Rijeka with department in Radocaj, Delnice gdi is currently located 130 people. However, the building at home in Rijeka, which houses 80 users, is owned by the church and is subject to return procedures, which in a relatively short time will cause an additional problem in taking care of this part of the county population. In a psychiatric hospital in Rab, about 420 psychiatric patients are now being treated. The buildings of the hospital are pavilion type and there are two buildings within the complex, the ruins whose arrangement would give them an opportunity to accommodate about 50 people. Since the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, as well as the hospital, are unable to provide the necessary means of care for the accommodation and long-term treatment of mentally ill adults is in the jurisdiction of the state. It would be necessary in the State budget for 2007 to provide 15 million kuna funds to alleviate the burning problem of long-term stationary treatment of mentally ill elderly people. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77461	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 291st representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77462	The necessary funds to continue the renewal of the Special Medical Rehabilitation Hospital in Lipik are secured from loans with a developmental age, Development Bank, forgive me, Council of Europe and it is not really necessary to open an additional separate position.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77463	Representative Milanka Opačić. What? ... Who's in favour of this amendment? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 292. MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77464	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the additional increase in funds for Croatian Red Cross activities is secured from the position of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, but also for some new projects from the lottery funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77465	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77466	Given that the funds requested are secured from these other sources, and not only in the budget, we are satisfied with that. It is important that the means are provided that the functions of the Red Cross can be performed. In that respect, I withdraw the amendment. We thank the minister for providing the funds in other positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77467	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 293th Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77468	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the funds are also provided for both primary and secondary prevention of alcoholism in different positions. And de facto no distinction should be made between the age to which the activity is applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77469	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77470	Yes, he does. He needs a minister. Since this House is unanimous, yes, because this Parliament unanimously adopted the National Programme for Youth Action, which said that special funds will be allocated in a special item in a special position, and this is what Vice-President Kosor said this morning for the prevention of alcoholism in young people. Since young people as a particularly risky group with more and more alcoholism deserve to have special programs. This is another amendment despite Minister Schuker's saying that amendments to MPs are just folklore, not to propose any new items. I propose a new item, so I suggest adding to the state budget a new item that would read, prevention of alcoholism among young people that we once had in the budget, and now, based on your proposals, we no longer have in this budget. Then we will complain about how many young people drink, how much overdrinking it is in young people socially acceptable drinking, we will pass some laws on zero prominence, like this and like that, and in fact, in preventing alcoholism in young people we don't invest anything, or you suggest we spend all zero kunas. I suggest that we still allocate some funds for this and have special campaigns to prevent alcoholism in young people. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77471	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. She is the 294th representative of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77472	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the positions were reached at the level of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute in division 110.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77473	Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77474	Thank you very much, Minister. If that's how it is, then I accept that argument. In fact, I think that actually reproductive health women is one problem that is becoming more and more pronounced and women are increasingly facing it. And as is commendable, for example, this action by the Ministry of the Early, Early, Early Disclosure of Breast Cancer, I think this problem needs more systematic and serious approach. If that's what you said the funds for it were secured in a second position, then I withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77475	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. In 295, representatives Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77476	The amendment is not accepted. The funds are also secured in separate positions within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77477	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77478	I am particularly pleased to hear that these funds are also provided in the necessary amounts in special positions of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, because we have all supported, in fact, the National Programme against Breast Cancer, that is, the programme for early breast cancer detection. And otherwise, I think more resources should be invested in combating or creating conditions for early detection of malignancies. Unfortunately, among other things, it's probably because of the stressful situations and the post-traumatic situations we've been in. These diseases in the Republic of Croatia are still on the rise. And the worst they have for the result of increased deaths, the fatal consequences, and therefore any programme that is directed in this direction needs to be supported, the means to ensure that it is implemented. I thank you for your means of security. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77479	Thank you. Amendment 295 withdrawn. Minister of Health, you're free for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77480	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77481	The justice ministry, State Secretary Snjezana Bagic. Amendment 296 of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77482	The amendment is not accepted. In order to adapt the object in question to the former military police building in Pula, it is necessary to develop the project of documentation and to produce all necessary permits, as planned in 2007, and the funds will be financed from the funds achieved from the sale of rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77483	Representative Valter Drandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77484	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. I'd like to say that to us from IDS it seems like a year too long for that preparation. It is the building of a former military office, which was assigned to the county and county attorney's office by a joint action of the city and county and the county court and the state's attorney's office. We think that this is an extremely important thing to increase the efficiency of the judiciary and we think that this will adequately resolve the situation in the judiciary in Pula where it will finally get its quality conditions for work and the county and municipal state attorney's office, and this will also solve the problem of the municipal and county courts and we need to speed up this matter because it is an adaptation. It is not about any new construction, it is not about any major projects, and therefore I ask you to be on the side of the ministry too, and the city and the county have shown their will to participate in this, to engage in the process and in this regard, and I am withdrawing this amendment if the funds will be provided in the way you have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77485	Thank you. 296 withdrawn. 297, MPs Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77486	The amendment is not accepted. The County Court in Zlatar was fully built and equipped and opened in 2005. For this purpose, a total of 50 million kuna was secured from the budget over the year and the amendment is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77487	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77488	Mr. President, Secretary of State. It is also necessary to provide for these funds to complete the project, to equip the municipality court building in Zlatar and to actually create conditions for normal court work. Of course I will ask for a vote on this amendment, but before I ask for a vote on the amendment, I ask the president to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77489	Very good! Very good! The quorum? Order! 82. Who's for this amendment number 297? One. He didn't get the necessary majority. 298, Zvonimir Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77490	The amendment is not accepted. The transfer of funds as proposed in the amendment from K629154 to K629029 is not possible since it is an ongoing project of the Square of Justice in Split and the planned funds are necessary for its completion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77491	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77492	Yes, this is the fourth time I suggest that something be done to improve the working conditions of the judicial bodies in the ugly Koprivnica. Unfortunately, for the fourth time in four years, it is rejected and four years has really not been invested in improving the conditions of judicial bodies in Koprivnica, not even the new car gets, let alone get a new hall or some new equipment, all I think is 3 or 4 personal computers. But this also speaks of the fact that the hunches are not inexplicable, so that the County Court and the County State Attorney's Office in Koprivnica will be abolished and then there will be no need to build new spaces. It is saddened, therefore, that the courts that are among the busiest or most pressing in Croatia are punished by being up-to-date and then there is no problem and there is no need to invest in them. Minister Shuker when we had rebalancing said the amendment was denied because I suggested 2 million then, and that was little. Now I've proposed 20 million, now it's being rejected for some other reason. I expected the government to find the right measure to really start solving this, obviously it is not, so I'm going to ask the Parliament to declare it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77493	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 299 MPs Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77494	The amendment is not accepted. For the total building construction and building equipment, it is necessary to ensure greater than the proposed million kuna, but at the end of 2006 and early 2007, intervention is planned to resuscitate the roof of the facility in question worth 300 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77495	Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77496	Here's the first criticism of budget transparency right now. It says in the zero-position budget, we now hear that the planned funds are 300 thousand kuna for the end of 2006 and the beginning of 2007. Another reason why the proposed amendment is rejected is because it needs more money and not this million kunas we're proposing, and I guess there's something to start with, and including the 300 grand it needs, which are otherwise being prepared for the proposal. It is about the need to build up, rebuild, adapt and equip the building in the prison hospitals which is necessary are the funds and I ask that votes be voted on on this budget, on this amendment and accept this amendment if nothing else would make it possible to have a legal basis for spending these 300 thousand kunas announced to be spent in early 2007. The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77497	Then say it! Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 300, representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77498	Mr. President, it's the same amendment as before, so it's not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77499	Yeah, it's already been voted. It's the same amount. 301...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77500	Dear Secretary of State, that is just one more argument, an argument to accept this amendment. The reform of the prison system is foreseen at least in the strategy...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77501	We are not voting on this because the amendment has already been rejected. An identical amendment. The vote was rejected and no vote was cast.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77502	Thank you very much for your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77503	Yeah, that's what I said. 301, MPs Mato Arlović and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77504	The amendment is not accepted. The means proposed would not be sufficient for all investments to be made by the end of 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77505	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77506	I would ask you nicely, Madam Secretary of State, to say which resources would be sufficient, because you are in the budget that you offer us zero kuna. This county court is working under extremely difficult conditions. My predecessor, and the predecessor of the current secretary of apology, bought this building from the town of Slavonski Brod. This building was intended for other purposes entirely, and if it stays this way, the judges will have to get as a means of assistance and an umbrella as well as in the offices they work for, but also in the court of sneezing. He's gonna have to get another assistant, too? Maybe it's good to hire at least 16 and a half thousand unemployed now in the Brod-Posavina County area. In fact, it is inadmissible and almost incredible to hear such an explanation that our projected funds of 5 million kunas are not enough to equip and edit this court. I don't know, I have to admit I'm pretty confused. I've never had a chance to hear such an argument in my life before. I ask you to find or secure at least these 5 million kunas in the budget for next year in order to at least seemingly resolve or urgently repair that part of the room from the courtrooms and the work space for judges and other staff so that all those who have to be in those premises have optimal conditions for living and working. There's nothing else down there asking me to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77507	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 302. Amendment, MPs Mato Arlović and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77508	The proposed amendment is not accepted. During 2006, an access ramp was developed for disabled people, and according to the ministry's capital investment plan, this investment for the adaptation of municipal buildings in Slavonski Brod is planned only for 2008 when the opening of the north wing is planned on the ground floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77509	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77510	Madam Secretary of State. I'm sorry if you don't know, but I'll also tell you because of the general public that the building permit planned for the construction or closure of the northern wing of the municipal court in Slavonski Brod has been extended twice. And as far as I know, the beginning of next year will end its importance. So it's expired or it'll expire. I don't know which times, this is the fourth time I've asked for the budget, and every time we said it would be in the next budget. This year we were pleased with one ramp that you said we would have made out of donations so that disabled people could get to the municipal court building, to the land section, and to all the courts that work in that building. And it would be up to you to help us really get in a position for all those who work first and foremost in those areas to work in the conditions of a decent man. This is how we get the impression that we're still at war, and the war ended 15 years ago. I call you once again and ask you to change your attitude, i.e. to allow this court to be in a position like any other courts in the Republic of Croatia. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77511	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 303rd, representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77512	The amendment is not accepted. For the complete accommodation of the Municipal and Criminal Court in Biograd, space should be provided for about 1,000 square metres. The question arises, of course, whether it should be refurbished in an opportunistic manner and an existing building, so-called. ... old schools or secure a new space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77513	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77514	Thank you very much. Since the City of Biograd has made the following with several ministries, which is that the Social Care Service has been relocated from that area, so to speak, so to speak. Old schools and that thus created conditions, therefore, and needed space for the Criminal Court only requires a million and 600 thousand kuna to rebuild that space. Well, then, given that the ministry has no hearing about the need to raise the standard of Criminal Court in Biograd, I would like to request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77515	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 304th Amendment of Representative Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77516	The amendment is not accepted. During 2005 and 2006, some 500 thousand kunas were already invested in the Public Court in Pag for the adaptation of the part of the ground floor, the editing of the sanitary node and repair of the roof, and therefore the necessary investments were made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77517	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77518	That doesn't mean that there are adequate conditions for working in Pag. You'd have asked for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77519	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the need for most of it. 305th Amendment, MP Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77520	The amendment is not accepted. During 2007, the Fair Square of Zagreb project plans the opening of an architectural urban competition, the production of project documentation, the production of all the necessary building permits, for which the amount of 2 million kuna is sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77521	Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77522	So I really can't believe what I heard because the documentation project was well done. Obviously from the projection that is scheduled and for the next year definitely the Government gives up its own decision to build the Square of Justice because it can only be read from what is now the Budget Proposal and what we have obtained as an explanation. In fact, 2 million kunas predicting project documentation that is well-made at the Faculty of Architecture is pure untrue. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77523	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 306, MPs Antun Peruško, Slavko Linić, Gordana Sobol, Zdenko Antešić and Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77524	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, for the adaptation of the building proposed by this amendment to the County Court in Pula, the proposed funds could not ensure that this is done over the next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77525	Representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77526	I will sort of accept the explanation because it is an identical amendment with the IDS Club amendment, but according to the knowledge available to me, the documentation project exists, a very precisely developed project of adaptation and cost-effectiveness is in the June of 5 million 500 thousand 638 kuna and 35 June, with the readiness of the City of Pula and the county for participation of 10%. And you yourself know the conditions of the city and, but I will give up the amendment and accept the explanation you gave.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77527	Thank you very much. Amendment 306 withdrawn. Amendment 307, MP Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77528	The amendment is not accepted. During 2007, the main entrance of the Supreme Court building will be arranged for approximately 300 thousand kuna while the adaptation and equipment of the yard part of the building is planned for 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77529	Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77530	Dear Secretary of State, the Supreme Court needs councils for trials at the moment, not the entrance to buildings. The entrance for the buildings is necessary, but he's more due to the general impression. The Supreme Court needs work space at this time, especially since the Administrative Court has been evicted from the Supreme Court building. Project documentation was made, everything was prepared to arrange for the Supreme Court trials. Not that the judges of the Supreme Court sit around a table, one table and a court. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77531	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 308th Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77532	It's unacceptable. Namely during... the year is planned to produce a project documentation for the recovery of the facility in question for which the necessary funds are provided, hence, the proposed resolution... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] could not be implemented during the following year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77533	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77534	The county court in Čakovec as well as the Municipal Court in Čakovec is working under really inappropriate conditions. As far as I know, the documentation has been ready for several years, even in the 2005 budget, and the means to start the resolution of that building, but it was not done. Therefore, I think I can secure the funds because it has every prerequisite to go into recovery, i.e.. Upgrade this building. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77535	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 309th Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77536	The amendment is not accepted. In short, for the same reasons as the amendment before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77537	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77538	For the same reason, I don't accept this argument. So far, nothing has been invested in the Municipal Court in Prelog although it achieves excellent results, works in inappropriate conditions, has all the necessary documentation, so I think that this could, therefore, have been provided for the next year so that it could be restored to the court building. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77539	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 310th representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77540	The amendment is not accepted. This amendment refers to building and equipping a penitentiary in Sibenik. Namely, during... the year is really planned to produce the project documentation and to obtain the necessary permits in order to access the construction... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a building which we consider to have secured the amount in the budget of a million kunas is sufficient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77541	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77542	According to some calculations and projections made by the people on the ground in Sibenik, this million kuna is not enough. That is why 4 million are proposed in order to start some papers next year and to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77543	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 311th Amendment of MP Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77544	The amendment is not accepted. As is evident, construction and equipment of a penitentiary in Sibenik is already planned, so there is no need at least until the public-private partnership determines where more penitentiary facilities will be built, new penitentiary facilities will be built, or funds in the budget will be provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77545	Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77546	I cannot agree with your argument's respected secretary of state because currently according to the number of prisoners waiting for entry into prison, there is not only one penitentiary but two, and Prime Minister Sanader when he was in Imotski, HDZ representatives from Imotski clearly promised the penitentiary, i.e. prison in Imotski. Therefore, promises should be kept and therefore I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77547	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 312 also representatives of the Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77548	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the law that would regulate systematic and complete legal assistance rights has not yet been sent to the High House will indeed maintain both the ways and means necessary for the establishment of that system. It will be planned not only for the development of the ministry but also for other bodies, but it is impossible now to predict if the law comes into the process how much more resources will be needed as much as is foreseen by its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77549	Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77550	So the law on free legal aid was prepared last year. At that time, its adoption was abandoned because there was not enough funding last year and it was promised that citizens would be entitled to free legal assistance this year and that funds would be included in the 2007 budget. Therefore, citizens are being played again, not only are citizens playing those who have no money and who need free legal assistance, but also are playing the day of the European Commission's promise that the Law on Free Legal Assistance will be implemented next year. Not adopted, implemented. I therefore ask you to stick to the promises you made to citizens, to the European Union and to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77551	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 313th Representatives Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77552	The amendment is not accepted. The government considers that the amount provided in this position is sufficient for professional training of USKOK employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77553	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77554	Mr. President, State Secretary, Honored colleagues and colleagues. Well, we can't, you know, practically from almost a month to month, make new laws that we're setting out new jobs and tasks in the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. At the same time, we can't bring a programme to fight organised crime, international terrorism, and then issues, programmes to fight bribery and corruption, and we're not aware of the fact that people who work on these jobs must be trained, educated and acquired new knowledge and skills that they can actually implement, not only from a formal and legal aspect but also from the aspect of all the necessary knowledge in order to collect investigative knowledge about the perpetrators of possible actions, in order to care for the end of this monster that includes both our and our state and the social community, and therefore the amount of 207,000 kuna is simply insufficient for that to happen. We ask and propose to increase this to a million kuna and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77555	Who's in favour of this amendment? One. That's not enough. He didn't get the necessary majority. Although the voice is significant, so far it's not enough. 314th representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77556	The amendment is not accepted. The government considers that the amount in the budget of 11 million and 242 000 kuna is sufficient to achieve this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77557	Well, I think the government thinks it's bad. Given that when the USKOK was formed it had an item of 14 million, this year there are 9 million, you projected for the next year, or you predicted 11 million. Yesterday, Olli Rehn was in Croatia, the problem of corruption again stressed, a report from Brussels on corruption is a dominant topic. Therefore, I do not know how this government expresses its commitment to combating corruption and organised crime if it cuts and reduces so below the level of five, six years ago that we set out to fight organised crime and corruption. At the same time, you have the second item to predict for this year 4 million for intellectuals and I do not know what personal needs to fight corruption. At the same time in the 2008 and 2007 projections, you reduce and fall below 2 million. Do you think next year you'll solve corruption? At the same time, you have 111 million for construction and reconstruction of court buildings. Since you've refused all the amendments so far, I don't know where you're going to spend 111 million? I ask my colleagues to take account of the political commitment and the needs of the 5 million from this item and to be given on the USKOK item or for the need to fight corruption and organised crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77558	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 315. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77559	The amendment is not accepted. The funds provided in this position for the purposes of promotion and information shall be sufficient to achieve this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77560	Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77561	Dear Madam Secretary of State! I wouldn't agree that these funds are sufficient. Since USKOK has received a new task, which is to explore the degree of corruption in Croatia. Research means a lot of money to provide and the results of the research are really well placed through the means of public communications. Ads are expensive. Renting an ad is expensive. That's what the government's public relations office knows best. I therefore suggested that certain funds should be removed from the Government's office and given to the USKOK, which lacks funds at least when it comes to informing what it is doing. I therefore propose that we vote on this amendment, since you gave the orders of the USKOK which do not belong to it but you gave him the tasks and did not provide him with the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77562	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Those who are not in the hall are approaching the voting time on the budget. We still have a vote on certain amendments. I ask that MPs and MPs enter the hall and enter the hall. Development and employment fund. Minister Shuker. SDP Representatives' Club, Amendment 316.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77563	The government does not accept because it believes that the proposed funds will be sufficient for a team more than we have fulfilled almost all obligations in 2006 based on that old employment action plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77564	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77565	Well, I'm already the name of this fund, the Development and Employment Fund with the Regional Development Fund, should actually ensure this even development of Croatia. We estimate that one of the biggest problems in Croatia is employment or unemployment. Unemployment has been stagnating here for four years at 300 grand. It is alarming that in three years, employment has increased less than 16 thousand new employees and the employment rate has dropped from 43.3% to 42.6%. We estimate that more funds should be allocated to employment, so we suggest that an additional €192 million be provided in the fund, for employment needs to increase this share of active, active employment in the active population. We believe that the country's stronger role in implementing employment measures, particularly active measures through information from the unemployed, the organisation of education programmes, particular care for individual groups that are threatened by social exclusion, the promotion of self-employment and other measures that would increase employment or reduce unemployment. And that's why I'm asking us to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77566	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 317. Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77567	The government doesn't accept this problem. The textile industry is being solved through the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77568	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77569	Yes, it is being solved but in an unfavourable way by the textile shoe industry in the Republic of Croatia, so the current situation in that branch of our industry threatens that the textile and footwear industry in Croatia simply fails. That wouldn't be good because there are over 38 thousand people employed in these branches of our industry. It's mostly women, more than 80% of women, and what's interesting is more than 90% of their production is intended for export. They were in 2006... Kuna. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Only 20 million kuna, which would be distributed to companies that share in the Republic of Croatia, means that each of them will receive 800 or 1,000 kuna. In the Development and Employment Fund, the item increases the competitiveness of the car parts producer, so we have these items, and 15 million kuna is foreseen. We think it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that the textile and footwear industry is supported by much, much larger means and I warn it is high time to help them. So I appeal once again to separate 100 million kunas for their support. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77570	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Regional Development Fund, Representative Dragica Zgrebec, Amendment 318.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77571	The government does not accept because it believes that the funds that were based on the allocation in 2006 and based on that and the very function of the Regional Development Fund is to help units of less fiscal assistance, that this will help enough units in the Krapinko-Zagorje County area.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77572	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77573	So I'm concerned with the opinion of the finance minister that the Krapina-Zagorje County is such a fiscal force that it doesn't need a budget transfer and that only 3 million and 200 thousand kuna are provided in the Regional Development Fund. In 2003, when the fund was founded, 7 million 390 thousand kuna, the following year it was reduced to 5 million 231, in the last year to 4 million 900, in order to get a little more than exactly 9 million and 100 thousand. It's precisely because road infrastructure is in a particularly difficult state in this county. And instead of getting a further increase this year, you're reducing it to 3 million and 283,000 kuna. I'm really worried if you think Croatia is developed without being developed if its counties or regions are in such a state. And if Krapina-Zagorje County and other counties are developed for you then I really don't know what it means for you to develop a part of Croatia. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77574	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. The 319th MPs of Zvonimir Sabati, Miroslav Cacia, Ivan Kolar who are not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77575	Same amendment. The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77576	All the same, we don't vote on that. The 320th Councilwoman, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77577	The government does not accept because the funds are allocated by criteria as well as to all other units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77578	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77579	So you said that this is the budget for the even development of Croatia, and it is precisely the fund that should ensure the rise of regional development that you reduce funds from year to year. With each new budget, the Međimurje County remains 30% or 30% lower. I hope that for 2008 the budget will be run by another government that will have more hearing for regional development. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77580	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. The next amendment by MP Željko Pavlica is the same as the previous one that was rejected, so we do not vote on it. Croatian Mine Action Centre MPs Mato Arlović and Ljubica Brdarić Amendment 322.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77581	The government does not accept not because it considers that sufficient funds are provided but also such increased funds under the amendment are not sufficient for what should be done. However, in 2007, the government will find an entirely new organisational form or model of financing demining in the Republic of Croatia because we will not demining Croatia at this rate for another twenty years. So, with this proposed amendment, nothing more would be done, but it is certain that we will make a completely new model of demining in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77582	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77583	Mr. President, Mr. Minister! Of course, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the large number of donors who have donated or donated, or who will donate more demining funds to the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, I thank both domestic and foreign donors, thanks to humanitarian organisations that provide funds for demining and praise the valuable initiative of the city of Zagreb and the mayor of Zagreb who launched the initiative to raise special funds for demining at the level of the city of Zagreb and to make themselves available to the Mine Action Centre. However, I find it totally unacceptable that even such an increase in funds would not be sufficient for demining so that they should not accept this amendment for this reason. I've heard a similar argument last time that in this year we're going to increase the funds and secure a better portion of the demining funds and that we're going to hear it again through some new reorganisation next year. And what is most important is the issue of demining is not only a matter of country security but at the same time a question of creating a prerequisite for putting a large part of economic and natural potentials into the economic function of the Republic of Croatia and of course the social function of its citizens to create conditions for a better life and return to all people to their homes with full security and full possibility of protecting and achieving all economic and social needs and interests. That is why I ask that this amendment be voted upon, and when a new project and a demining programme is provided, which should ensure rapid demining, that in a few years we demining definitely the Republic of Croatia, I will be happy to discuss and support it. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77584	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. It's not enough. We now have a review of the amendments to the 2007 proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian highways. Amendment of Representative Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77585	The government does not accept the projected funds for the Split-Ploce highway in the amount of 602 million are needed to complete the Dupolje-Sestanoovac stock, which is to be opened in June 2007. And it's illogical that one direction that was built to stop it to secure funds for another direction and that's why the government can't accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77586	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77587	Mr. Minister, the Bosiljevo-Split road is not the other direction, it's the same direction of the road. So, for the Bosiljevo-Split highway, around 17 billion kuna was spent, and there was still, both tunnels and St. Rok and Mala Kapel and for the equipment, so for the complete completion of that part of the highway, we need to spend about 3% of the total cost of the highway to get a complete highway. We are now witnessing that during the summer, especially during the summer hours, columns of over 20 kilometers occur there. This would solve the problem, and this is the kind of approach that we're building roads from nowhere. I therefore request a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77588	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Not enough votes. 2nd Amendment of Representatives Biserka Perman, Zdenko Antešić, Slavko Linić, Anton Peruško and Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77589	The government cannot accept for reasons why money is being downloaded from other traffic routes to invest in this traffic route.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77590	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77591	Thank you very much. Namely, Diraci-Orehovica is part of the planned Rupa-Rijeka-Zuta Lokva highway and makes a joint of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway with the border crossing of the Hole by the main entrance of tourists to our country from the west and later its continuation towards the Žutoj Lokva and Dalmatia respectively. This stock in today’s state does not have sufficient capacity or daily traffic frequency, so it is constantly driven in columns. It's a special story of the day-to-day story. In the summer months, we witness a torture that takes place on these ten kilometers [10 km] of roads every day because it comes to miles of columns that do not crawl but simply stand for hours. The consequences are often accidents with tragic consequences. An additional tragedy in such cases is the rerouting of traffic through the city of Rijeka because only then is real hell and a general blockade of the city that lasts for hours that we witnessed this summer on two occasions, so it is unnecessary to stress that this is also the first picture that tourists from Western countries acquire of our country when they come into our country and it is really unsatisfactory that the construction of this stock is not intensified. Yesterday, he said about a loan for the completion of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, State Secretary Livakovic, that the move of Rijeka-Yellow Lokva did not enter the state budget and that the preparation of the course would be for the next planning period. But I'm talking about the problem today, not the next planning period for which, by the way, I don't know exactly what period he's thinking about. I stress that by not building this highway the very important tourist area of the northern Adriatic Crikvenica-Vinodol Riviera, Senja, the northern Adriatic islands and the Podvelebit coast remain in traffic isolation. These items I downloaded, which we downloaded from certain items to intensify the construction of this stock, I don't think they would have been so sensitive to repairing their...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77592	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. We are going to the amendments, amendments to the 2007 Croatian Roads Financial Plan. First, MPs Plasimir Sabati and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77593	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77594	Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. Second, MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77595	The government does not accept because we believe that the amount foreseen in the four-year public road maintenance plan for the period 2005-2008 will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77596	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77597	With this amendment, I demand an increase of 84 million and 30 thousand kuna. Position of other operations programmes on state roads. The Public Road Construction and Maintenance Programme from 2005 to 2008 envisions the construction of the fast road Popoc-Marija Bistrica-Zlatar Bistrica-Zabok. It provides for 12 million kunas, and that is not enough for the purchase of land, let alone for the construction provided for in this programme, but in this year. At the same time, the same programme established the construction of the Zabok-Krapino stock with the beginning of the first year, the first semester of 2007. And there's no means to do that at all. So I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77598	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 3rd Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77599	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77600	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough votes. 4. MPs Ivana Posavec-Krivec and Nenad Stazić. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77601	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77602	Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. He didn't get enough votes. 5th Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77603	The government doesn't accept. In the special part of the 2007 Financial Plan, under the code 105th co-financing of the County Road Administrations remains the amount and this is in line with the programme of building and maintaining public roads for the period 2005-2008 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in December 2004. A County Road Administrations, except for this source, shall make the vehicle registration and other own resources available.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77604	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77605	Since it is an absolute amount of transfer from the Croatian roads to the County Road Administrations in 6 years will be according to this plan and this means in the government's mandate from the current government and projections the budget for the next two years 240 million kuna. So in absolute terms. And at the same time, the entry sizes are rising, so the price of asphalt and maintenance prices and labour prices are increasing. The fact is that this money will not be able to meet those standards of maintenance of County roads as expected. Although they have the County Road Administrations their original incomes but they don't increase either. However, Croatian roads also have original revenues of 0.6 of gasoline that increase each year. And I think it would be fair for transfers to the County Roads to increase by at least the amount of the Croatian Roads budget. In this way, the standard of maintenance of County roads in the Republic of Croatia will not be maintained. However, somewhere they want it because there are political transfers to individual counties but those who live only on their incomes and these transfers will not possibly be possible. So I'm asking you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77606	Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. [[Intruder: Don't clap but vote.]] Order! We are going to propose a financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2007 for amendments, amendments to the representatives of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivana Posavec-Krevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77607	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77608	Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. He's not accepted. Second, MPs Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77609	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77610	Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. He's not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to vote on the State Budget Proposal. Please, let's get on with it. Please engage those who haven't yet. The quorum? 80 is present in the hall. We have a quorum. I am voting on the proposal for a state budget. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? ... I find that with 79 votes for and 3 against the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 the text proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. [[Applause.]] In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters for 2007. Please vote. The result? With 77 votes to, 2 abstentions and one against was made, the proposed decision was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77619	It's unacceptable. We've already started the adaptation this year and it's just for us to continue the investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77620	Valter Drandić
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77621	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I thank you for the deal you made with the City of Pula and in the meantime. And I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77622	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 54. Representatives Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran and representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77623	It's unacceptable. Under the Law on the Council of Programmes, the Croatian Council is considering cultural goods and drawing up a list of priorities of cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77624	Representative Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77625	Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're actually studying this budget literally confused and shocked. ... is one of the richest areas of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the highest quality agricultural land. The pool oak and the most economically rational and most profitable part of Croatian forests. It's a find of young people. And at the same time in education and education, children go to neighbouring countries to finish high school because there is not enough space, there are not enough teachers. Cultural monuments are not renewed. Religious beginnings of monuments that serve among other things and the fact that the population in those areas does not remain complete. I must say that the unemployment rate is constantly increasing and now in this sphere when we suggest that the part that the believers themselves started building the church and financed to complete this church in order to actually put it fully into service, we cannot get attention, the minimum funds of only 800 thousand kuna for the church in Gunja. So the question really is now, what are the councils discussing, whether they were ever in that area of Croatia. Did they come in... have ever gone to Gunya, Rajo Selo, Verbanju and there to see what they have there. [[You don't understand.]] They may have seen the natural cultural treasures found there and for which special means should also be allocated, by the way, when we are talking about culture for their protection and for their wealth. It seems to me that often these councils actually come down to the fact that the protection of cultural goods that are related to urban environments, large urban environments, of course, and because of the lobbies present here, and they ignore often these small areas in which not only live people, but also need to live people and must have the opportunity to achieve their cultural, religious and other freedoms and content. That's why we're asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77626	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 55, representatives Mato Arlović, Mate Gavran and representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77627	It is accepted by the Council Act. The programmes are being considered by the Cultural Goods Council as it draws up a list of priorities of cultural goods. By the way, I note that the Ministry of Culture in Continuity is financing the reconstruction and arrangement of all cathedral facilities in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77628	Representative Mato Arlović, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77629	We agree that it does, but it should also provide funds for this cathedral church of St. Teresa Avilia in Požega. It's a zero-category monument. And I remember at any time and at a time when we were the position, colleagues and colleagues from our electoral unit for the city of Pozega for this cathedral church were giving an amendment if the funds were not provided in the budget, then usually the representative of the culture ministry said he would re-distribute some funds and secure it. It seems to me that this time that part is not intended, please accept this amendment, it is only 200 thousand kuna, and you already know that when it comes to such a monument of culture that often the restoration works that are necessary... Well, then, if you say you'll find something, then I'll withdraw this amendment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77630	We can't do it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77631	Okay, I'm withdrawing the amendment, we have a promise that the minister will do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77632	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. 56, Zdenko Antešić, Biserka Perman, Slavko Linić, Antun Peruško, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77633	It's unacceptable. The Croatian Museum Council and the Cultural Goods Council are considering and proposing to the Ministry of Culture the storage and presentation of archaeological findings. By the way, I just want to mention, the council hasn't made a decision yet, and so far there are three candidates, three cities running for permanent storage... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77634	Representative Zdenko Antešić. We are going to the next item - - Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007, second reading, P.Z. No. 579 Proposer is Government. In accordance with Article 174. The Rules of Procedure together with the proposal for a state budget shall also be submitted to the Final Proposal for the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. The debate was conducted by certain committees whose reports you have at your session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? The Minister of Finance? No, I don't. Reporters of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Valter Drandić. He's gone. He's losing the right club on his word. I'm opening a debate. There's still a representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt left. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Good to see you, too. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. He's also losing his right to say a word. The Honorable representative of Dragutin Lesar, whom he does not have, and he loses his word. There's no one left. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering and the Law on the financing of political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77637	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In Article 2(2), the government proposes to replace the word “2%” in the term “2.3%”. In this way, by 0.3% or almost 12%, it increases the ability to repay units of local self-government. But I would remind you again of 2003 when local self-government units couldn't be in charge at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77638	I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77639	I suggest that you raise your hands to go faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77640	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment to the government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 81 votes for, one against, one abstention of the proposed amendment, the government amendment. Now let's move on to the amendment of the HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77641	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77642	I'm putting it to the vote. He didn't get any votes. Member of the IDS representative's Club of Amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77643	The government doesn't accept For a reason... [[Intruder: Please vote!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77644	Retracted, no? It's a vote. [[Intruder: Voting, voting.]] Who's up for that amendment? What? [[And you'll explain, I'm sorry. I thought that.]] Yes, the minister said he didn't accept. [[I thought, I'm sorry, I thought the minister was finished. Excuse me.]] Who's up for that amendment? One. He didn't get the necessary majority. An amendment from one of Zvonimir Mršić's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77645	The government does not accept for the reason that the Budget Law defines a cumulative obligation as far as a single unit of local self-government can be owed. However, Article 12 provides for the possibility of annual duties and therefore Article 12 must exist and Article 12 shall only be based on the Law on the implementation of the State budget and where it is cumulatively determined to the extent that a single unit of local self-government can be totaled, and this does not mean that it can be used in one year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77646	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77647	So the Budget Law does not prescribe that the Law on the implementation of the State Budget must be laid down cumulatively, but that it can be prescribed. Now, since I am convinced that I accidentally gave the amendment to not be two, but two three, but that there was no political agreement for 80 million for the City of Zagreb, I am convinced that there would be very great reasons why not two, three, right. This is one political decision so that a total of about 300 and some million can be given to units of local self-government. We all agree that this is too little and that it is incorrect for local self-government units. All I want to do is correct the imprecise minister that in 2003 it was possible to borrow units of local self-government after the rebalancing of the state budget in about seven or eight months. Or the tenth. [[Intruder: 10th.]] But then it's incorrect that it wasn't possible to be in charge. It was possible to be in debt and it was possible to borrow 3.2%, not 2.3 as predicted for next year. I ask you to vote on this amendment. Oh, well, 0.3 is, look out 0.3 is a lot, not one whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77648	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 2nd Representative of the Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77649	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77650	Representative Mršić. ... For the reason that, we believe that the solution proposed by the State Budget Act is more qualitative, it contains the possibility of greater control than is proposed in this amendment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77651	Can I explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77652	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77653	Can I explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77655	Thank you very much. So this expression of mine in my amendment is completely consistent, or it's copied from the guidelines adopted by this House. I don't see how it can be done even better if we wrote it in the guidelines of the Croatian Parliament for Public-private Partnership. And he defines how public-private partnerships can be approved. I personally believe that the Law on the implementation of the state budget is not well regulated because the adoption of a regulation is envisaged, and it is not foreseen that applicants will receive consent to the PPP project. So please let us vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77656	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77657	The government cannot accept for the reason that the proposed amount provides the budget with the means. So if such an amendment was accepted by Mršić, then an amendment to the state budget would have to be made, because we cannot accept an amendment for which there is insufficient funding in the state budget. Therefore, I think that this amendment should have been contained through the amendment on the state budget, then only the law on the implementation of the state budget is technically to do that part of the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77658	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77659	Well, I was counting on writing an amendment to the state budget, but the government refused all 317 amendments. Now it turns out that this one might be accepted, huh. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77660	Retracted. Amendment 4. Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77661	The government does not accept because an amendment is proposed to take into account business without loss in the assessment of the State guarantee application. You know, Mr. Lobster, that the practice of this government is to issue guarantees practically only to the shipyard. At this point, we can decide not to give guarantees to Croatian shipyards that we can practically close them right now. If that's what the SDP club wants to say in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77662	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77663	Minister Shuker, you must see that these are not amendments on behalf of the club, these are my amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77664	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77665	So I, yes, yes, please, that's one thing. Secondly, this is not about shutting down shipyards, because according to the Encouragement Act, state incentives need to create a recovery project. So, it's completely, you've completely gone in one other direction. So I really don't think subsidies can be given to those who do business without loss, because it doesn't make sense to give them a fifth year in a row of subsidies. If we've given four times, they're doing business with their loss again, then there's some restructuring to be done. But to keep from wasting time, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77666	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77667	The government does not accept for the reason we believe that an existing solution is in order.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77668	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77669	Retracted. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77670	The government does not accept because it neither termologically nor technically cannot be accepted, because it deviates from the basic principles of the tax system that has been established in all European Union countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77671	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77672	So here's the ace of the Law on the financing of local self-government units. This amendment says that the return on income tax in the following year is done according to the ratios that this year's budgets have incometed from that tax, and that the profit tax is made in the following, following the annual application only to, in proportions as it was made in this year. What'll you have to do if you don't accept this? You will have that units of local self-government must pay back 600 to 700 million kuna more income tax returns which they did not earn because it was the revenue of the state budget, yes, because it was the income of the state budget. And it will significantly burden the budget of local self-government units. On the other hand, what they should have made in profit tax advances during this year, and not because there were advances, so there will be a tax increase following the annual application of the tax on profits will be the income of the state budget. And this, if you don't accept this amendment, not to eliminate what you're saying will be the winnings of the local self-government unit under the Law on the financing of local self-government units, but we're producing a loss of another 600 million kuna. That's why I'm asking you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77673	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77674	The government doesn't accept. For a reason...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-22-0.u77675	Retracted. We're going to the vote. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 79 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 was adopted in the text proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We continue the session and discuss - Proposal for a Law on Volunteering - first reading, P.Z. No. 565 The proposer of the law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Family, Youth and Sports, the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and local and regional self-government, State Secretary, Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Tomislav Ivić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
