ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65821	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! At its meeting in 1999, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on protection against ionising radiation and at the session held on 15 October 2003 the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on protection against ionising radiation. The basic principles of protection against ionising radiation that must be incorporated into national regulations stem from the current generic recommendations of international bodies, notably the International Commission for radiation protection, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the World Health Organisation and other organisations. The International Atomic Energy Agency as an organisation of the United Nations responsible for the definition of safety standards related to the use of ionising radiation sources and in cooperation with a number of international and regional organisations in 1996 has published a document entitled "The basic standards for the protection of ionising radiation and the security of the source of radiation" in which the theoretical and implementing principles and criteria and the basis for building the infrastructure for implementing measures against ionising radiation as should be accepted by each State. The provisions of this document have been adopted by the Republic of Croatia by the Act confirming the Joint Convention on the Security of Wasted Fuel Management and the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. In accordance with that European Union, it has stipulated that its members must necessarily level the level of protection against ionising radiation in accordance with the recommendations of international organisations and, on the basis of Council guidelines 96-29 of 13 May 1996 and the addition to that Guideline 97-43 of 30 June 1997. After a debate in the Croatian Parliament following the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation in October last year, there is a final proposal for that law. Before presenting the opinions and suggestions adopted, allow us to briefly recall what the proposal for this law intends to achieve? First, determine the principles of protection against ionising radiation. To determine how to test and monitor ionising radiation in the environment. To determine the security measures and sources of ionising radiation. Set limits for possible exposure at both dose and population, to persons under 18 years of age, workers, pregnant women. To determine the necessary expertise in the application of radiation protection measures as well as conditions of space and installation and devices in which ionising radiation sources are. To determine the general working conditions with sources of ionising radiation from imports, transport to source exports and storage of used closed radioactive sources. In particular, part of the work of the State Institute for radiation protection will be determined so that you can round up how this Bill intends to regulate the use of radioactive sources in the Republic of Croatia according to the principles of safe, justified, limited and optimal use of the source of ionising radiation. The legislative proposal is in line with the European directives, noting that full harmonisation will take place through the production of sublegal acts after the entry into force of this legislative proposal. The remarks, proposals and opinions given in the debate in the Croatian Parliament can be said that they are almost fully accepted so that we can indicate that it has been accepted and included in the final proposal among other things: the reduction in the number of sublegal acts by including absolute values, limits, exposure doses and the inclusion of certain other provisions in the legislative proposal. It has changed the way in which sublegal acts are adopted, which according to the new proposal is prescribed by the Minister of Health and not as in the first proposal of the State Institute for radiation protection, with the agreement of the Minister of Health. It has been determined that the provisions of the conditions for providing the source are passed by a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia instead of an earlier proposal to bring it to the health minister. And certain objections have also been accepted to the criminal part of the law where the articles in which the provisions relating to the matter of other laws are waived. It was not accepted to amend the name of the body to which the law applies in the general name. We, as proposing, believe that this proposal clearly defines the role and importance of a particular body of state administration, namely the State Department for radiation protection, for which a change in the power of the ministry is not questionable in the future, and yet gives a certain difference from the state administration body in the field of nuclear security. For reasons of clarification, we believe that in the Law on protection against ionising radiation, therefore, the name of the State Institute for radiation protection should stand nominally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65822	Thank you. Committee on Legislative Affairs, Labour, Social Policy and Health President Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65823	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the motionary. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 52nd session of the Committee held on 11 May 2006 discussed the final proposal for a law on the protection of ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 6 April 2006. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. During the debate, the members of the Committee supported this law. It has been pointed out that the text of the law is significantly improved by adopting a series of remarks highlighted during the first reading. Maximum radiation limits for different groups of persons have been established. In respect of these limits, while respecting other measures, the consequences of exposure to ionising radiation are not likely. After the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to support the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, along with the following amendment. In Article 41, point 15 is amended and reads: "Cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency, other international and domestic organisations, institutions and associations."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65824	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection? The Committee on European Integration? I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65825	The Honored Mr. President, the Honored Representatives of the Government and the State Office for the Protection of radiation, the HDZ Club supports such a form of law after all the remarks it has made in the first reading and adopted. But we feel that this is an opportunity to say a few words as to why we support it, and what is the importance of this Law? The Law on protection against ionising radiation is one of the most important laws for the preservation of broad folk health in the literal sense of that word. Ionizing radiation is increasingly present in our environment on one hand because of nuclear energy. On the other hand, because of the increasing use in medical use and in each other, we can say today that we are exposed to radiation 10 times more than it was 20 or 30 years ago. About 90% of all artificial waste sources on medical radiation and a significant part are naturally nuclear radiation in different reactors. It's an area of nuclear security while in the event of a Chernobyl-type accident this particular service of radiological protection comes first. How dangerous is ionizing radiation we know from exposure to this radiation. So if we're exposed to certain doses, and somewhere these doses aren't even limited to who's exposed, and that's all we can get leukemia, it can get cancer. A woman can give birth to a child with a sin, means teratogenic damage, and prior to fertilisation, damage to the ovaries can occur and genetic damage is transmitted to generations. For the illustration, the data suggests that the effects of ionizing radiation, primarily in medicine in Great Britain, dies 7 thousand people a year. Of course, at the same time, this same radiation saves tens and tens of millions in the diagnosis of therapy. But this is the data that shows we're dealing with an area that's not harmless at all. Facing such problems, the young Croatian state began to reorganise fully against ionising radiation in 1990. '93. In its law already established a Croatian radiation protection agency which was translated into the State Department in 2000 against radiation protection headed by Dr Kubelko and thanks to this institution we are certainly among the best organized countries in Europe today, I dare say in the world. We're on our way to organization and division. So today we have legislative activity in the Ministry of Protection in the jurisdiction of the State Department for radiation protection, and inspection control also in the ministry. So in this respect we have a good organization and we have taken a whole series of very effective procedures, such as records of all sources of radiation. Our first record in '90, 1990, showed for example. that the average age of x-ray devices is over 22 years. What it means to be safe at that time doesn't even need to be told. In addition to the list and regular dosimetry of these devices, doses are monitored for professional staff, dose per population, life-dose records of professionally exposed, etc. are kept. Then why was this law needed, a new law? He was needed for two reasons. One is to fully comply with the European Union guidelines, and the other is that the European Agency, the Atomic Agency in Vienna, after a terrorist attack in New York on 10 September 2001 revised its basic documents and adopted a new document "The measures of action and behaviour in the security and physical protection of radioactive sources with a view to increasing provisions relating to the physical protection of sources". This law has satisfied one and the other reasons and is therefore supported by the Croatian Democratic Community club. In the second reading, the promoter accepted, as State Secretary Dr. Golem said, all the remarks that were made. So between them and the specifics that determine maximum exposure doses are now introduced into a fundamental law, not into a sublegal act, which we consider to be much stronger. Article 11 provides maximum effective doses for residents of one millivert per year. In Article 13, effective doses for professional staff of 100 millivers in 5 consecutive years, with no individual dose of more than 50 milliverts, etc. Perhaps two minor remarks can be made that definitely do not affect the final positive assessment of this law. Perhaps a dose for students and students who are educated in radiation sources should also be determined in law by their maximum effective dose. Secondly, it may have taken a little more consistency in determining the exemption from the requirements for the authorisation of carrying out activities with sources of radiation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. These exceptions are determined by doses of radiation, so for some sources of dose are determined by law, and for some they will be determined by sublaw. This may be a small inconsistency which, however, will in practice have absolutely no consequences and we believe that sublegal acts will be at the level of the quality of this law. In order to recall, Article 26 therefore exempts itself from the authorisation to carry out activities with sources of radionuclide radiation, but the dose to be exempted will be determined by a sublegal act. And in the same article, x-ray devices are excluded, and it is within the law that the limit is determined from one micro-heat per hour at 0,1 meter. So one is determined by law, the other by sublegal law. But this is obviously the strategic definition of the proposing. What should be pointed out in this second reading is that all relevant remarks have been accepted, that the law is fully in line with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. Although it can also bring confusion to that table at the end of the law where 30 provisions say it is only partially in line with the provisions of the Council of Europe. It's true, but only seemingly partially consistent. Because everything else has been brought into line in sublaws, or it will comply with the sublaws. Therefore, as a whole, the law together with the sublaws is fully in line with the Council of Europe guidelines. Finally, we welcome the legislator's decision to adopt sublaws by the Minister of Health, not as in the first reading, was the director of the State Department for radiation protection. In doing so, the legislative activity has been retained in the ministry as the supreme state body in this area. I think it's quality. For all things, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65826	Thank you. For the HNS club, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65827	Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law sets out in Article 1 the principles and measures to protect against ionising radiation, all in order to ensure and reduce risks to the lives and health of people and the environment for present and future generations. Namely, this final part of the first article is verbal exhibitionism, it does not belong to the law, it does not really need to stand there because this law, as well as a series of other laws, on genetically modified organisms etc., etc. falls under those laws that will be in a permanent matter I would call it that. In each term, the law will probably be on the agenda once or twice. Because in line with new technological discoveries, the implementation of scientific discoveries, etc. It clearly points to the needs of increasingly stricter and stricter standards in this area as well as in genetics and other areas. So that's what we wanted to say, and we think it's important. Therefore, when such laws appear in the Croatian People's Party's Club Assembly is more than satisfied, we will support the law. But we must say that we disagree with what has been said so far about this law because it has a number of shortcomings. But I repeat, we will support him because in this area every law is better than any law. And clearly, in the function of time, we will have to bring these laws into line with real needs and technological opportunities and applications. The aim of this law is to comply with the legislation of the European Union. And basically he's co-workers and colleagues if you read him a little more carefully, you see that he, unlike what the secretary of state said, I would say neither in theory, let alone using implementing principles essentially solve nothing. Why, I'll try to prove it to you, but I'll give you two suggestions right now in front of our club to see how to overcome those shortcomings. It literally regulates everything through regulations, future regulations, future programmes, future plans. Everything. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. shall be implemented under conditions in the manner and places and in the time limits prescribed by the Minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. Article 19 of the Conditions, time limits and method of obtaining the necessary professional education and renewal of knowledge and the application of measures to protect against ionising radiation will be laid down by the rules adopted by the Minister, etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 23 of the Regulation laying down the conditions for design and construction and the removal of buildings containing sources of ionising radiation shall be adopted by the Minister. Article 27, after the end of the application of the radioactive source referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, shall provide financial resources for their disposal in accordance with the conditions laid down in the prescribed Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Article 29, scope and time limits for measuring basic radiation will be laid down in the Rules adopted by the Minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. etc. Article 33 again rules. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. My colleagues and colleagues, you know That is why it is our proposal, and I have already suggested it several times to the President of the Parliament that it might be possible at the Bureau of Parliament when it comes to laws like this, because we practically sign here believing that all of this will be properly regulated through sublegal acts and that it will be implemented. It doesn't have to be. It is therefore our proposal from the HNS Club that all proposals for a regulation when they come to the stage of the proposal to direct them to our committees, the proposings, let the committees read the draft regulation, do not have to attend the plenary session. If the waist says it's okay, the rule goes on. Also reports annually under some of these regulations, again why it would not happen that when an annual report is made to come to the committee responsible because we who have accepted such a way of working, that the committee says that the report is correct, all measures are implemented in the rules, or as it was intended to be regulated under this law, so these mechanisms would really ask us to introduce them as one rule, one mandatory way of working so that this Parliament has its own weight and responsibility for implementing such laws, but the HNS Club will absolutely accept the law. We repeat this is the last version of this law. Those who will be behind us in these benches will likely again or twice certainly be complemented for the reasons of technological needs and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65828	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65829	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen from the State Department of radiation protection. I'm going to get a hold of my predecessors. I would refer to some parts of the law that they didn't comment on. In the first place, I agree with my colleague Doric that a large part of this law was actually left at the mercy of the minister, or the rules to be passed by the Minister or the State Department for radiation protection, while the meaning of the law was, however, to define this matter as best as possible. The best example for this article is Article 16 which speaks of the maximum allowed medical radiation to be monitored by the Minister responsible for health care. That's not good, and it also had to be made clear which line is for two reasons. First, because the global standard is to reduce year after year the limits of allowed radiation, and on the other hand, because we have witnessed truly unmill events in health institutions that have often been without adequate protection for workers employed in radiology, so on x-rays and similar sources of radiation. The same applies to these restrictions on the radiation of the population in Articles 11 and 12. I believe that if we were to engage now in a debate that one of the representatives of the State Department would be invited to some kind of European convention or some standard, but there is again a clear trend that there is no such limit that is as safe above which something is happening in the organism and below which nothing happens. This limit is indeed individual and the global trend is to reduce the maximum allowed dose of radiation, so perhaps over a year we will change these figures here in Articles 11 and 12. It is good that Article 10 clearly declares the obligation of physical protection of radioactive sources, so all that we discussed here a week ago about the physical protection of nuclear material refers naturally to radioactive sources. They're a first-class terrorist target that can be used to irradiate with a dirty bomb. So classic explosives upgraded with some radioactive material that explodes and pollutes the city or God's water supply. It is good, then, that this law is also clear. In addition, it is good that the law provides for an obligation in Article 38 that the radioactive source must be taken care of by the one who imported it to Croatia. However, I do not agree with Article 39 which states that, on the one hand, which is really right and so far in the existing Law on protection against ionising radiation prohibits imports, processing, storage and disposal of radioactive waste that did not occur in the Republic of Croatia, but here in this Act is the case if it is not otherwise settled by international contract. The law so far has been much more rigorous, has not introduced this clause "if it is not settled by an international contract". It is a pity that you have given in here, and this is probably the result of a famous agreement with Slovenia on Krško, which Croatia has agreed to for the first time, although it was not an original obligation to introduce radioactive waste from Krško unless a second agreement is reached for Slovenia on a 12-month period since the closure of the nuke. So I warned of this agreement when it was adopted, this agreement was also the reason for major political earthquakes in Croatia, but it is a national interest, and I remind you as a representative of the State Department for radiation protection, the national interest is that Croatia has no imports of radioactive waste, i.e. there are no imports of radioactive sources other than what Croatia necessarily needs. We need radioactive sources to control the fraud in Đuri Đaković, we need radioactive sources for markers at CT, we need radioactive sources from scientific institutions such as Ruđer. I'm working at the Ruger in such conditions, I know what it's about. However, when Croatia collects all its sources, when Croatia safely stores all these sources in lead containers, and again in the barrels of rostfrei we may, over 10 years, fill a tow with these radioactive sources, with all their protection without Krško. And with Krski and his waste, things change dramatically because they're hundreds of speedboats and far bigger money. So it's really strange that you've easily agreed to this formulation, probably under the pressure of those who signed this unfortunate contract, and that Croatia here for the first time has actually indirectly agreed to introduce radioactive waste into its territory, if it's settled by an international contract. So all the rest of the law is really correct. I repeat, it would be better if a large part of here hadn't been solved through the regulations and there were even more rigorous and lower permitted doses, but what is there. For us, however, it is the most controversial part that allows the import of radioactive waste at the small door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65830	Thank you. For the club IDS, the respected representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65831	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Parliament, as Mr. Secretary of State said at its 99th session, passed the Law on protection against ionising radiation, and in 2003 the Law was amended by its amendments and additions, which, of course, follows technological development and makes a significant contribution to changing such things naturally in favour of human health. That is why we at the IDS Club know that this proposal that gives some solutions that are relatively good in the world today, we know that these solutions will also have to be changed in the very near future, but right now I must say that the IDS Club will support this proposal because it still gives positive shifts. We also know that the International Atomic Energy Agency as a United Nations organisation is responsible for the definition of security standards related to the use of ionising radiation sources, and in cooperation with numerous international and regional organisations in 96 years, published the document "The basic standards for protection against ionising radiation and the security of radiation sources" in which the theoretical and implementing principles and criteria and the basis for building the infrastructure for implementing measures against ionising radiation in order to establish each country. The provisions of this document have been adopted by the Republic of Croatia by the Act confirming the Joint Convention on the Safety and Management of Exhausted Fuel and Safety and the Management of Radioactive Waste. In accordance with that European Union, it has stipulated that its members must necessarily level the level of protection against ionising radiation in accordance with the recommendations of international organisations, and we of the IDS Club are committed to becoming a full member of the European Union in 2009 after all. We're counting on this proposal to bring us closer to those principles. I would look back a little if we were looking at article 38, which speaks about radioactive waste and used closed radioactive sources. Therefore, Article 38 states that the holder of the authorisation is obliged to provide and bear the costs of the disposal of radioactive waste as well as the used closed radioactive sources, and the source of ionising radiation intended to be used further. But here I am, openly asking the Secretary of State. We know that today some of our facilities, I'm not going to mention specifically which have protection, thunderscreen protection from, so-called, the cartridge of a radioactive thunderbolt. I want to ask, and I will probably hear that answer, to what extent the account and how to solve it, therefore, and to make proposals for the lightning protection of these objects, since we know that especially in areas where thunders are common, there must be protection, and a solution to someone else's protection, therefore, instead of a radioactive thunderbolt, raises even the existence of one such object. I'll just say if it's hospitals, if it's what they wanted, if it's other public buildings. The second thing that is said in this Article is the terms and conditions of the treatment of radioactive waste, used closed radioactive sources and sources of ionising radiation, for which no further use is intended... will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the competent health minister. I believe that, of course, institutions will participate in all of this with their proposal to give to the competent ministry, and perhaps there is an explanation there that this problem is being solved. And second, what I must say is that by listening to my predecessor also that Article 39, where imports, processing, storage and disposal of radioactive waste that did not occur in the Republic of Croatia are banned, if it is not otherwise solved by an international contract that gives me little, does not give me a clear picture of whether this is what we forbid from importing, processing, storage and care, or if there is some other possibility, that I may not be so critical that yet a small door is introduced that something similar can happen? Now, if you give me a few answers like I did at the beginning who will convince me at the IDS club to convince us that safety is the same as the IDS club proposed here will support this proposal, just by bringing certain improvements, and we know that in the coming year, two of these current proposals will probably experience some changes by going so quickly that technological development will certainly produce favourable results for people's health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65832	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65833	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After a two-day debate on the selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, it is the final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation that we will discuss most likely for one half hour, and it is a very important law that regulates the issue of special importance for humanity in the past, but also for the present, important for the development of society such as for medical purposes, for therapeutic and diagnostic purposes, for industrial development, then for the need of nuclear energy, for military and civil purposes, and how much debates are being conducted and how many individual countries produce such nuclear, various products and for what purposes they intend to use their nuclear energy. Unfortunately, a number of nuclear tests are being carried out, and there is increasing atmospheric pollution to radioactive substances. Then there are also extraordinary events like nuclear accidents, we still remember the Chernobyl accident... It happened in 1984 and we still feel its consequences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is also a terrorist attack on New York on September 11th 2001, and all this makes this issue a protection against ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionizing radiation, means always current and always important. I think that the use for medical purposes, in diagnostics and therapy, is still well controlled, but we've heard that there are also negative consequences. But for healthcare institutions, I would point out here is a rather complicated outcome of the approval to carry out the activity, and then there are regular measurements and checks on the correctness of the device, then checking the health skills, all of which are necessary and justified, but it also places a considerable burden on the institution, not to mention the price of the device and its maintenance, so let's just say that one of the repairers has an account to cost one of its work 65 euros and even a trip costs its 35 euros per hour. To compare, I'd say that the price of a specialist doctor's work comes to about 40 kunas or, say, reading a heart scan in two directions with reading 29 kunas, shooting bones in two directions 38 kunas, so let's say shooting teeth 7 kunas and 14. I'm saying all of this to actually point out what complex conditions medical institutions operate in and when we're discussing their, both financial and other business, then a number of other circumstances should be taken into account. In particular, I also consider it important to examine systematically and monitor the presence of radioactive substances in the air, in the ground, in the sea, in rivers and lakes, in underground waters, drinking water, food and general use items, as well as living and working rooms. I think many of these questions need an answer and a permanent answer. And we certainly need all of this with the aim of ensuring and reducing the risks to people's lives and health, the environment for today's, but also future generations. The final proposal of the Law is certainly made more important by the adoption of remarks highlighted in the first reading, such as the setting of a limit... population, radiation limits of exposed workers, then regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have seen here and personally also I think that many important, really important issues are regulated by the regulation because I believe that the promoter had in mind that some of these may have to be changed more often, so that this is simpler with the rulebook, but now an improvement has been introduced in this sense that these regulations will be passed by the minister responsible for health care instead of the previous proposal where it was to bring in the director of the State Health Insurance Office, this radiation protection. Then, the proposal of the Committee on Social Policy and Health on Waste Management was also accepted, and it is now said that the conditions, the way in which radioactive waste is disposed will be used and... the source, meaning it will prescribe a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, along with a proposal from the Ministry of Health, which gives meaning to one importance and weight of this issue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also accepted the objection and related to the infringement provisions and so that we have here a declaration of compliance with the acquiss of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, and therefore I can also support this proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65834	Thank you. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65835	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I join these discussions that are going to ensure that this Final Proposal for the Law on the Protection of ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation which is now accepted in the second reading for the basic reason that the first reading has made a lot of remarks that there has been no real distinction between the Ministry of Health and the State Department for radiation protection, that these remarks are now generally accepted, that there are also a reduction in the number of sublegal acts and that they are brought by the Minister of Health. Therefore, all of the fact that we have more or less highlighted in our first reading as observations in order to improve the law they are now and accepted and therefore I believe that this text of the law should be adopted. It is also important in the debates why we need this Law and why this Law will, in fact, experience every two to three years of change and change because of the simple fact that technological development requires such changes, that all those who care about people's health are necessarily going to have to see these changes in time and in some way legally intervene to ensure that both the health of the people and the safety and health of those who work with sources of ionising radiation are protected as much as possible and that the whole process is serious. I say, the importance is enormous because only radiation from natural sources of radiation to these artificial sources of radiation, especially in the use of medicine, is enormous, and therefore this importance due to the preservation of human health. What is particularly pointed out in this law is that special attention is being paid to safeguarding the source of ionising radiation and that is something that certainly gives this law this dimension of importance and seriousness without mentioning that this second reading has finally seen some changes that in some ways further harmonize this law with and the current guidelines of the European Union. Therefore, we have before us the text of a law that needs to be passed and I will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65836	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65837	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues! Let me briefly refer to the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionizing radiation. In fact, the mention of the issue and the matter that this bill is dealing with appears to be a certain reserve, reluctance, fear, and for the simple reason it is an area which is usually caused by just such a reaction. This results in security concerns from potentially unwanted effects caused by ionising radiation. The information that radiologists have established the International Commission for radiation protection since but back in 1928 with the task of establishing at international level common measures to protect against ionising radiation during the medical use of the source of ionising radiation indicates the importance of this problem. The International Atomic Energy Agency as the United Nations Agency is responsible for defining standards related to the use of ionising radiation sources. The European Union has prescribed that its members must necessarily level the level of protection against ionising radiation in accordance with the recommendations of international organisations. This law contributes to the European Union's accession process in order to adapt legislation and international regulations have also experienced changes following a terrorist attack on New York in September 2001. The requirements of physical protection of the source of ionising radiation have been tightened and all for the purpose and purpose of preventing the use of radioactive sources for terrorist purposes. The overall issue of protection against ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation must be maximumly thorough and professionally resolved because it only thus achieves its purpose and does so in the best and comprehensive manner of this law from systematic testing and monitoring of ionising radiation in the environment, the security measures of ionising radiation sources, the protection of persons working on it, the limits of radiation, of course and the importance of professional skills, continuous checks on health skills, imports and exports, transport and transport of source of ionising radiation and finally the disposal of radioactive waste and used closed radioactive sources. The affairs of the State Department of Air Protection are as numerous as the obligations and from them the role of the National Institute and the tasks of the State Administration are visible and the fulfilment of these obligations gives us the right to view the role of the Trust Institute without any remainder. For these reasons, I also support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65838	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65839	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for this discussion, but let me answer the questions asked and give some clarifications. Starting with the answers to the questions asked, I can make it clear that the proposal for further lightning protection based on the source of radioactive radiation today still has no evidence that such lightning protection would be in anything better than classical lightning protection and as such we will not support new lightning protection in the field of therefore and the foundations of radiation we will already have the existing thunderscreen protection to go into removal. All kinds of lightning shields containing, therefore, radiation sources. On the other hand, it should be made clear and loud that, at the meeting of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament, an amendment to the Committee was adopted on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as we will accept at this session and is related to Article 39. Let me explain. International contracts are generally and are mostly above the law as such, so Article 39, where we wanted to clearly define as a proposing that imports are banned,... The storage and disposal of radioactive waste that did not occur in the Republic of Croatia, this supplement that we have added if it is not otherwise solved by an international contract is actually more of a cosmetic type and as such we have accepted on behalf of the promoter that Article 39 is changed and it is therefore said: "No import, processing, storage and disposal of radioactive waste that did not occur in the Republic of Croatia." Therefore, that is the second answer I am obliged to give you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the rest of the works, we need to make it clear and clear. Either we stick to all the world's standards and directives or we don't stick to them. According to world standards and world practice, as well as directives that go into the making of laws of this type, why every two, three years, more and more have begun to avoid clearly defining certain things that are changing over shorter or longer periods of time. We already explained something like this when we first read this law when we said that it was precisely a large number of sublegal acts that could arise from this bill and come about because of the situation resulting from certain changes, certain values can precisely be much simpler as such and put into practice in the Republic of Croatia. We accepted the observation and yet we entered certain basic values into the law, now this final reading that was seen. However, we believe that these remains mean values that would somehow make a book by way of a book if they were to be instructed by all those as... that we can let the sublaw act or regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia be done as already stated in the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about a call to 12 regulations that won't be 12. It's going to be a little bit smaller, but in 12 articles, it's going to be called to a rule that would set something up. So throughout the bill, the law is based on the principles of the directive and the world standard, and I must point out accordingly that the famous first article mentioned here, which is in a way that does not belong to the law, we must say, however, that the article in the directive "96-29 Euroatom" is translated into radiation protection. So thank you for this discussion. We hope that we have explained certain concerns about this law and that we will accept on behalf of the proposer of the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65840	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65841	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. So, of course, the international treaty is above Croatian law when it is ratified. But you will forgive a completely different situation for a negotiator who negotiates in an international contract if there is a Croatian law which is declared clear that there is no import of material in Croatia or if it allows the possibility if an international contract is concluded. So so far, so far, so far, Croatia has stuck tightly to this place except for one truly disastrous example, which is Krško. And that's why I'm glad you adopted this position, indeed, by most MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65842	And now this just went through an incorrect quote, didn't it? ... I'm closing the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Final proposal of the Law on protection against ionising radiation and security of the source of ionising radiation. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic. Mr. Minister, amendment of the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65844	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65845	It becomes an integral part of the law. The Committee on Spatial Editing and Environmental Protection of Amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65846	The government also accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65847	What? And you accept? Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65848	I would ask that the minister be shown the most controversial part of this law, that Croatia, with this law, agrees to import... material or not? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65849	Comrade Tadic, no further discussion. The debate is closed, the amendments have been submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65850	He promised the amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65851	The amendment has been accepted and we vote on the text of the law. ... Please, let's get on with it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Let's vote. The result? With 77 votes for, 8 abstentions and 1 against, the proposed law was passed along with the amendments adopted. We are going to the following point: - Proposal for a law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service, first reading of P.Z. No. 465; The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The debate was held: Committees on legislation, internal policy and national security, local and regional self-government and the Committee on Tourism. Interior Minister Ivica Kirin's representative will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65853	Thank you very much. Dear parliamentary representatives of the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, we welcomed him here in the Croatian Parliament. As we know, Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service has been operating in Croatia for 55 years. They are the ones who have been saving tourists and our citizens day and night, especially in areas that have not been inhabited, and it has not been legally regulated so far. That is why, according to the article and the law and the Constitution, this law has been passed where, above all, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it was necessary to regulate the way in which Croatia’s Mountain Rescue Service activities were carried out regularly, as provided for in Article 12(2). Protection and rescue laws. The adoption of the law will primarily ensure compliance with European international regulations, regulate the activities and areas in which the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service operates and its financing as a public service carried out in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Public authorities will be given to Croatia's rescue service in order to effectively implement preventive planning, preparation and ensure the efficiency and safety of participants and rescues. What is still important is the implementation of this law does not require additional financial resources. The State budget is not additionally burdened, as it should be stressed that so far the funds for Croatia's mountain rescue service have been secured in the State budget at the position of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, in the position of health, at the position of the Ministry of Health, at the position of the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Tourism Administration, Maritime Administration, for financing of the search services in air transport and the like. Based on special agreements between the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and those ministries. What is still important in the implementation of this law is not to impose new obligations relating to the provision of financial resources in the budgets of units of local and regional, regional self-government because they were obliged to organise and finance the functioning of parts of the system of protection and rescue in their area in accordance with the applicable regulations. What is very important is the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service: the structure, activity and financing of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, the rights of members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service during interventions, cooperation with international organisations, state administration bodies and other natural and legal persons in the areas of rescue. Obligation of organizers and participants of sports, tourism and other content in nature, mountainous areas and supervision of the implementation of this law. The law defines Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service as a national, professional, humanitarian, non-profit association that carries out an activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia, which brings together Croatian Mountain Rescue Services stations from the Republic of Croatia. Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is part of organised operational protection and rescue forces, in which the following powers are given in the exercise of the activities: training for all specialities of mountain rescue and providing first medical assistance in the mountain according to a specific programme that brings about the proposal of HAGA, Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service Director of the State Protection and Rescue Administration. Conducting training for tour operators in non-accessible areas in order to improve the safety of participants, keep records, issue convictions about completed training, prohibit the access of unauthorized persons near the place of intervention and may exceptionally include a full-time person to volunteer for certain auxiliary tasks. The Croatian Mountain Rescue Service acquires funds to carry out its activities from the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia, from the Budget of units of local and regional /regional/ self-government in which the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, donations from the execution of contract services, from gifts and heritage, from the implementation of projects to improve security in areas of nature where tourist activities are carried out, activities in the area and for the needs of the tourist community. What we can say as promoters is that as a tourist destination, the Republic of Croatia once again points out not only the safety of its citizens but also the security and foreign citizens who come to visit the Republic of Croatia and thus round up exactly the part of the economic activity that arises especially in the tourist summer months. What is very important to say is that because of the very development of the territory of the Republic of Croatia 80% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is located in areas where preventive measures really need to be implemented in order to protect those who come to visit our country above all from reckless trips to nature and from unforeseen situations that may occur amid changes, sudden changes in climate conditions in the midst of any factors that can affect life and human health. What we can say is that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service of the Republic of Croatia surrounds the safety of citizens in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and thus contributes to what we always like to say that we are a tourist destination and a country that provides all the conditions for its citizens to stay in all its territory. Of course, in the law what is very important, which we have put in place is not only a pronoun, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the State, as regards insurance of financial resources, but also units of local self-government can mean, according to their own needs, in agreement with the State Protection and Rescue Authority, to form their own units, and in this way we do not impose how many Croatian Mountain Services should be in a particular area, but they will form according to their needs and what people from the local area ask for. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65854	Thank you. Committees on legislation, internal policy and national security, local and regional self-government, tourism. For internal policy and national security, committee president respected representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65855	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 66th session held on 9 May 2006 discussed a proposal for a Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service submitted by the Croatian Parliament President to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The board members are familiar with the reasons and interests proposed to pass the law in question, the proposing representative points out that this legislative proposal proposes that Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service be integrated into a single national system of protection and rescue as the holder of the rescue activities in its jurisdiction. It also states that this legislative proposal defines the content, scope and manner of carrying out the work of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service, cooperation with international organisations, state administration bodies and other natural and legal persons, and financed supervision of the exercise of public authority. The Committee supported the position of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, as it estimates that Croatia's proposed legislative proposal, the Mountain Rescue Service, as an active safety factor, will be able to prevent more effectively the threat of security, the occurrence of accidents or the escalation of these events. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is hereby adopted as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65856	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65857	Dear Mr. President and Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen members of the Mountain Rescue Service. The Mountain Rescue Service has so far been only the tool it used when the accident occurred. It is also a roof national professional organisation in charge of prevention, and so it is everywhere in the world. The Croatian Mountain Rescue Service must have autonomy, normally to some extent, because it can only be effective. In carrying out regular activities, which in 95% of the activities represent prevention and preparation, and only in the event of accidents and disasters is the State Administration for the Protection and Rescue of Handling and Co-ordinates with the Mountain Rescue Service. Now our GSS belongs to the top of the world profession and results. But so far he has acted outside the law, unlike the world where the GSS is an authorised national resource that provides, controls and monitors security in such areas. This ensures that some dangers can be eliminated in time, for otherwise they may turn into major disasters or disasters. We remind you that according to the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia security should be designed a state based on available resources, a regulated system of relations and European standards. The system of protection and rescue can only be effective if the laws and other acts recognise all dangers and tasks, recognise available resources and responsibility, regulate the system of relations, achieve international compatibility with European models and standards. Unfortunately, the existing legislation in Croatia has so far not seen that there are situations in the Republic of Croatia where someone will surely die, remain a permanent invalid or the like. Unless he's saved by the Mountain Rescue Service. Such events are not foreseen in Croatia. Therefore, such rescues or effective preventive action in Croatia are completely outside the law. Following that, such accidents in Croatia are in fact a regular state, and their prevention and rescue is an unexpected excess. It should also be noted that without Croatia's mountain rescue service, the European number for calling for help 112 will be completely disabled in the Republic of Croatia, nor can Croatia achieve international compatibility because there is no answer to very frequent situations. Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service has a long-standing own and international experience that should certainly be respected if safety is to be improved in areas which are not accessible to other public services. That's the way it is in Europe and the world. We are particularly warning about the importance of this tourism law. This is the law which is the least needed for Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service, and much more for the Republic of Croatia, which finally recognises the fact that its national space is also areas outside cities and public roads over which sovereignty and interests are expressed and protected by the care and respect of elementary international conventions, guaranteed rights for the protection of human life and health. Namely, both in nature and in areas outside the cities, public roads take place... human, economic, traffic, tourist and all kinds of other activities that follow threats, sudden diseases and accidents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For such events, each sovereign state must have a pre-prepared response. And not to lose people's lives because of a lack of support for the GSS, that's so far. Croatia's mountain service has been carrying for a long time, dealing with the public need. It was high time for the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service to acknowledge that it is doing a publicly useful job, and that the state is actually helping its work, not that someone's life and outcome in the rescue depend solely on understanding or accidental support of institutions, more so than the fact that the number of accidents is growing year by year, and each regulated state must have an effective rescue service. By passing this law, Croatia will be safer throughout its space. Strategic assumptions will be created for human use and so far unused and neglected areas, will be greatly enriched and improved health care and quality tourist offers that will extend the tourist season and achieve so much of the desired revenue from tourism. Tourists today do not come for accommodation but to implement active facilities, ride bicycles, walk, climb, descend down rivers. The completed examples are climbing sites and rocks in Paklenica National Park, Omis, Biokova, Kleku, as well as elsewhere where several thousand foreigners are gathered daily to come to Croatia exclusively to climb, walk, etc. And not only in summer, but on the contrary, all year long. For example, some poor villages along the Cetinj River, Zrmanja which have been revived by the discovery of new tourist offers, rafting, canoeing, safari, etc. Such an offer is accompanied by gastronomy, culture, accommodation and other offers, all together by some poor accommodations, remote villages created by situated owners of tourist agencies, providers and organizers of attractive services that employ others and work almost 3 to 11 months. Such spaces have long been recognised by national laws in the world, and particularly in Europe as valuable national resources. Once neglected and remote islands in the Alps or remote islands of the oceans are now modern centres where the tourist season lasts almost a year, bringing full employment and prosperity to its inhabitants and countries. It should not be reminded that these places would never become such a favorite tourist destination that they do not have very high safety standards on which a very effective mountain rescue service usually works. Croatia as a unique combination of coastal mountains and a warm sea, one of the world's karsts with many karst rivers and canyons, the dinarides chain attracts more and more tourists just like these, most often more difficult accessible and preserved natural landscapes and spaces. They include all living human activity and not only touristic but also traffic. Unfortunately, this activity is accompanied by sudden diseases and accidents that are precisely proportional to the number of people who live on them, including the necessary ethical condition of using this ever more precious space to create high standards of human life protection. Security has always been the best investment, and national space and people are, in fact, the most important resources of every responsible community. Unfortunately, security as a strategic precondition in these areas so far has been the sole concern of Croatia's mountain service, which in its final efforts tried to resolve this from day to day, an increasingly public need, for example. So far, Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service has been alone but responsibly covering this activity for 56 years and has been available to citizens 24 hours 365 days a year, according to all the weather conditions of statistics, tells 8 thousand rescues, several million free hours of work for which they used their annual vacations, each year the service performs 400 to 500 rescue actions, does almost 100 thousand hours of work on prevention and preparation. Field duty, education, vulnerable populations, preparation of space, issue of topographic maps, flyers and establishment and warning, and as a national institution and experience are committed to doing everything that improves security in such areas, partly and therefore Croatia has been declared a safe tourist country, and every year there are written thanks from various embassies, states, to the concerned and help of their citizens, our tourists. Due to guests, the rescue service is one of the most difficult activities taking place on the most inaccessible terrains and under the most difficult weather and other circumstances, so it is impossible to implement it safely and effectively without the support of the entire system. In the world as well as in Croatia, the GSS is often the only, only effective weapon and extended hand system thanks to which the protection of medical, other assistance reaches where it would otherwise not be possible. But unlike the world, so far in Croatia it has not been regulated to legally assist Croatia's mountain rescue service, on its efforts to increase security in such areas,... The dangers and the preservation of someone's life. [[You don't understand.]] This law is a condition for the international compatibility of the Republic of Croatia and will benefit everyone from it, so I hope that you will all support it as well. What I think so far in the rescue in the Mountain Service was the biggest shortage, it's looking for helicopters at the scene. I think one multi-purpose helicopter service would certainly be effective if it was regulated by this law or some other. So far, Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service has been waiting for permission from the Croatian Army for several hours, during which time the unfortunate man was waiting at the scene. The helicopters available to the Croatian Army are certainly too bulky to be able to intervene under unaccessible conditions with the help of the mountain rescue service. That's something you should think about in the future anyway. Due to the above, the Croatian Democratic Community club praises and will accept the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65858	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65859	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, gentlemen of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, colleagues and colleagues. The safety and protection of the lives and health of people throughout the entire territory of a country is the primary human and strategic public need. It is a fundamental civilization and international obligation but also a measure of ethics and economic interest of every society. The fact is that in cities and public roads the concentration of the population and the intensity of the activity is, therefore, the number of accidents and diseases. But it is also the fact that 80% of Croatia makes up spaces outside cities and public roads and these areas are also part of Croatia and are equally worth international conventions and obligations on the security of citizens. A large part of this space, particularly under poor weather conditions, is not available beyond the control of other national institutions and represents a space of action and responsibility exclusively for the HGSS. The number of accidents in difficult accessible spaces from year to year is growing geometrically, according to the estimates of the threat and analysis of the situation in the Republic of Croatia over the next five years, Croatia expects an increase in the number of such accidents by 5 to 10 times. We must not forget the fact that Croatia is a tourist country, and the entire world tourism is increasingly based on active content where the tourist no longer looks for and buys goods or services but looks for experience. This is not a phenomenon regarding tourism itself but is the ideological approach of all mankind where tourism is just one part. Croatia as a unique combination of sea and mountains,... phenomenon, numerous islands and preserved natural environments have great potential for the development of adventure tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The areas in which activities that form part of such tourist offer take place are the expression of dangers and unpredictable weather opportunities, and therefore the possibility of accidents, material and human losses and damages is greater. The HGSS operates where it is most difficult and dangerous, extracting the victims from minefields, searching for crashed aircraft, saving citizens and tourists at sea, under water, in canyons and in all non-accessible areas. More and more frequently in the media are reported successful HGSS actions, but the titles of the type "Saviors themselves must pay for fuel and food" or "Because of the undefined law, members of the Mountain Rescue Service warn themselves of insufficient equipment and too little money" or "The Gorge Rescue Service needs new rescue equipment", etc. Such a situation is well due to the fact that we have so far not had a law that would clearly regulate the position of the HGSS in the entire protection and rescue system. In front of us is the proposal for a law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service whose adoption is a prerequisite that the HGSS can be legally integrated into a unique national protection and rescue system. Article 12 also obliges us to adopt this Law. The law on protection and rescue, which says, quotes: "A way to carry out the regular activities of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service will be governed by a special law". HGSS is in its regular activity actually a public service that operates in various areas of public needs, health, physical culture and sports, tourism and economy, culture, here I think of national parks and protected parts of nature. Then in the areas of environmental protection, education and education, transport, etc. For these very reasons, we at the SDP Club believe that the HGSS must have autonomy in carrying out regular activities that in 95% of the activities represent prevention and preparation in order to prevent a major scale accident. It is indisputable that in the case of major accidents and disasters, the State Administration for the Protection and Rescue is a roof organisation that manages and coordinates all segments and services that form part of the system of protection and rescue, as well as cases of major scales and disasters, management and operation of the HGSS as an integral part of the entire system. But in performing regular activities, they do as I already said 95% of the total activity. The HGSS should be left with as much autonomy as possible because only so can its effect be maximumly effective. However, the proposal for this Act insists on pushing this activity into the jurisdiction of the State Protection and Rescue Authority, saying immediately at the very beginning and Article 5 of the proposed Law: "Croatian Mountain Rescue Service as part of organised operational protection and rescue forces is required at the invitation of the State Administration for the Protection and Rescue and Head of Units of Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government to participate in all rescues in major accidents and disasters." Next, Article 5 reads: "Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is obliged to the State Administration to protect and rescue units of local and regional (regional) self-government to provide an overview of available operational forces and resources prepared for participation in the protection and rescue as well as other required data of importance for protection and rescue. In situations of major accidents and disasters of the operational force and resources of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, they shall be made available to the competent protection and rescue command", etc., not to read the whole of Article 5. We in the SDP club hold that it is unnecessary to list the obligations of the HGSS to the State Protection and Rescue Authority because these obligations are already clearly laid down by the Protection and Rescue Act, which in Article 26 clearly states: "In preparation and implementation of activities and measures on protection and rescue are required to participate in the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, Croatian Red Cross, Croatian Fire Department, Croatian Community of Technical Culture, Kinological, Spellological and Other Associations and Legal Persons, and institutions established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of participating in the protection and rescue activities when requested by the administration." This area is still regulated by Articles 23, 24 and 30. The law on protection and rescue, and therefore we believe that Article 5 is thus formulated in this proposal of the law unnecessary because it prescribes something already prescribed by the Protection and Rescue Act. Article 6(2) speaks of the basic tasks of the HGSS, thus saying in paragraph 11, "Organization of transportation of injured and sick persons from mountains and other non-accessible areas and the submission of requests to the competent services for helicopter transport of HGSS members injured and injured under the means of the Centre 112 unless the operator of the activity has a helicopter and ensures the presence of members of the HGSS". If such a formulation of this article remains, we will probably need to review it immediately after entering the EU, i.e. by modifying an article that premises that no one other than the State will have helicopters or be able to deal with the activities of helicopter rescue and transport unless it goes under the means of the State Centre 112. In Europe and the world, one of the basic tasks and regular activities of the Mountain Rescue Service is helicopter rescue and training for such rescue. The air operator, owner or concessionary of a helicopter may be anyone if it meets, of course, the conditions laid down by international rules on air navigation and national air traffic regulation, so such a formulated article of the law would actually mean suspending their legal and international rights. Contractors and financiers of such transports may be insurance houses, private persons and all interested in paying for the helicopter and hiring the Mountain Rescue Service. And the transport of the injured is necessarily tied to the helicopter, to get off the unaccessible terrain to get out and transport the injured. Mountain rescue and transportation of injured persons are necessarily related to helicopter transport. It would point out that members of the HGSS have international and Croatian helicopter rescue certificates in line with all necessary Croatian and international regulations. This proposed legal solution involves the operation of the HGSS to submit applications to the State Protection and Rescue Authority, which unnecessarily complicates the entire rescue action, which can ultimately mean unnecessary waste of valuable time, often depending on the life of someone or on the speed of implementation of the entire action depends on whether someone becomes a permanent disabled person. Therefore, we suggest that the procedure be simplified so as not to waste unnecessary time waiting for approval for helicopter transport. Article 7(1), among other things, says the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, in its activities, has the following public authority: to carry out training, maintenance of exercises, seminars, courses, professional training and the like, for all specialities of mountain rescue and first medical assistance in the mountain according to a specific programme, which brings to the proposal of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service the Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. Next, it says to conduct training to organise tourism activities in non-accessible areas in order to improve the safety of participants according to a specific programme that brings the minister of the sea, tourism, transport and development to Croatia's rescue service proposal. I would remind myself of the fact that the training programme for all the specialties of mountain rescue has already been prescribed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, that was then the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports, since 16 June 1992, with the addition of 3 November 2003 by the Ministry of Education and Sports. As a result, the SDP Club considers it unnecessary to prescribe a retroactive training programme now by the State Department for Protection and Rescue, i.e. the Minister of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development should continue to be the competent Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And in European laws and regulations on mountain rescue services, it is not known that training is prescribed by someone other than the exclusively ministry responsible for education and sport and for part of helicopter training of the Ministry of Transport. Article 18 speaks of activities financed from the state budget, and it is said in point 2 of Article 18: "The funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be made available to the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service through the specific position of the budget of the State Administration for the Protection and Rescue and other bodies of the State Administration which are involved in the implementation of the programme of protection and rescue in non-accessible areas, cities and public roads and programmes for the promotion of the security of tourists and citizens". I believe that the aim of this Law is to ensure, among other things, stable and autonomous sources of funding by obtaining its clearly defined position in the budget and obtaining the status according to the Croatian Firearms Community model and the Croatian Red Cross, because the Croatian Red Cross Act reads: "The State Budget of the Republic of Croatia provides funds for the execution of the tasks carried out by the Croatian Red Cross under the public authority laid down in Article 9 of this Act." or the Fire Department Act of Article 45 states: "The funds for financing the activities of the Croatian Fire Community are provided in the state budget." In this regard, we consider that Article 18(2) of this Law can be restructured in such a way as to say that the funds for financing the activities referred to in paragraph 1 are secured in the state budget because, otherwise, I am afraid that when we adopt the State budget for 2007, we will have the same situation as all these years when we have warned that the funds for the HGSS in the budget are not available, or the funds were secured in the positions of the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, but were not secured at the position of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, and therefore is not an accurate finding in the opening part of this Bill when it comes to the means necessary to implement this Act, and it is said to date that the funds have been provided in the state budget and in the position of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. There were none, i.e. the HGSS had its own position in the budget, and they were not in the projection until 2009. Therefore, if this article remains this formulated, I fear that the HGSS will continue to depend on someone's goodwill on which to determine how much funds will be allocated from the total amount for the purpose of this activity. The HGSS has been operating since 1950, established as well as all the mountain services of the world primarily as... sports, tourism and health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The members of the HGSS behind them have numerous successes, the data says 8,000 were saved. HGSS members are enthusiasts, people are free to say special things, people of great heart, I come from the subbicovian area myself, and I know very well what these brave people mean. So far, we have admired them, but what we can best give them recognition for everything they have done so far is and what we can thank them for all is to pass a law that will provide them with that position in the system and society that belongs to them and therefore the SDP club will vote for this Bill proposal and we believe that the Proposer will respect the remarks and suggestions made during today's debate and will install them in the Bill's proposal until the second reading to ultimately get as high-quality the Law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65860	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. He's gone. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Pay little attention in this crowded assembly fully interested in one crucial thing for human lives in the Republic of Croatia, it is really hard to talk about this problem by thinking it is something marginal or something irrelevant. If that were the case, there wouldn't be 55 years and so far there wouldn't be a few thousand interventions that saved people's lives. Namely, right at the beginning I will say we finally welcomed the Law on Croatian Service, the Mountain Rescue Service. We have welcomed the Bill's proposal, unfortunately in the first reading, in the regular procedure, probably because the Proposer is afraid that perhaps by being sarcastic a little bit, we would pass a law that would not be entirely rash and comprehensive even though it is actually very simple because it is the result of 55 years of experience of highly educated people who daily expose their lives to dangers by saving others. Therefore, with that amount of knowledge and experience, we certainly couldn't pass some superficial law, and therefore I am sorry that many of the completely unnecessary and unnecessary laws are going into this Assembly by emergency procedure, and we are now at the threshold of the tourist season when in fact the classical threat of life outside urban environments is beginning, which means in nature, in the explosion of extreme sports, Robinson tourism, and I don't know what all of these don't really threaten human lives we bring quite calmly, slowly, standing in the regular procedure of such a law. I'm sorry really, I think it's something we should have brought before the tourist season and she's on the verge of repeating some of these pictures I'm going to ask you, at least you who are still here to just listen to them by accident. These are pictures and cases from the experience of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. So the first example I want to tell you is like this. A delta wing flyer, so what is now popularly called a dragon has fallen from a height of 500 meters to an unaccessible area of the island of Brac on Vidovo Gora. The Croatian TV operator on the transmitter was an eyewitness to the crash and immediately informed the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. Although everyone knew that he was injured in a difficult state and that he was most likely fighting for life because a 500-metre drop certainly causes such consequences and that the urgency of the condition requires a helicopter in Croatia no single law treats an accident in unaccessible areas, and therefore there is no prescribed procedure for mountain rescue, mainly by helicopter. There are only regulations for the medical transport of patients. Now listen. For the transport of patients, the opinion of a doctor should be awaited, therefore, by the Ministry of Science who cannot give it. Why? Because he can't access the injured. In Croatia, therefore, such rescues are neither intended nor allowed. During that time, the Mountain Rescue Service was helplessly waiting on the helipad because it cannot be equipped, with all the equipment needed to save it, to somehow swim to Brač and it is helplessly already in a deep coma waiting for it and injured. Finally, the only doctor on the island, which if there were no one on the island at all, comes in some way to the injured. ... At that moment, I'm talking about that moment, ladies and gentlemen, concentrate, don't correct me from the bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, at that time, the only doctor present in Brač comes somehow to the injured and gives his opinion and only then can the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service access rescue. He was unhappy because of this delay and unnecessary long internal bleeding of the head very severe brain injury was in a coma for three months and he was recovering for several years, rehabilitating, therefore medically at the expense of the taxpayers and the budget at expensive clinics and resorts without talking about his personal and human tragedy that he had experienced. According to the data I have, and now that man has permanent consequences, limited working capacity, so disability, etc. Why? Because only after four and a half hours of tip-off and the confirmed fact that it was an emergency intervention were the workers of the Mountain Rescue Service finally managed to outsmart all the obstacles of the system to get out of the unaccessible terrain and urgently transport to the hospital the person who, according to all the rules of the profession and all the other circumstances, could and had to be in the hospital after ten minutes. It's the consequence of the absence of the law we're passing today. I'll give you another example. A young man for 26 years in the tension of power and at the beginning of his productive life, unfortunately, he lost his life. Here's the story. As a member of the sports aviation club, he fell with a parachute wing at 3:00 a.m. in an unaccessible mountainous area. He received limb fractures, internal bleeding and died on the lifeguard's hands because in the Republic of Croatia such events were not foreseen until this law was passed. After the eyewitnesses reported the crash, emergency medical attention was notified but not the Mountain Rescue Service. The Mountain Rescue Service was notified with a two-and-a-half hour delay but still on time. Because of the dramatic condition of the injured, the use of the helicopter was immediately requested. At 5:00 and 45 minutes, so 15 minutes after the Mountain Rescue Service was notified, she was on a helipad ready with the necessary equipment and was waiting for the helicopter. At the same time, one team of mountain rescuers with equipment was sent to Earth by means of ground access. The leader of that rescue effort has been trying to get a helicopter to save a young life that was clearly shut down by the doctor. Even three helicopters near the aircraft base were engaged in a fire in the vicinity of Split where the maquis burned. No one had the authority to remove at least one helicopter from the fire and direct it to the rescue of human life because in the Republic of Croatia saving human life in such areas is illegal namely nothing regulated activity and the opposite, there is no priority over saving things in this case several acres of scissors. Only when one of the helicopters returned for fuel was it sent to the scene of an accident about 19 hours for personal begging. It was already dark and it was not possible to save from a flying helicopter. The pilot, with an incredible pawn and a risk of the aircraft, dropped in 19 and 20 in the dark in the mountain but a few miles away. This is certainly an additional waste of precious time. Despite the huge desire of all rescuers, doctors and teams who were with him the whole time, the crew of MIP's helicopter employees still lost their young lives. This young human life has been lost due to an unnecessary delay of nearly two hours. In fact, if only half an hour earlier, an approved helicopter would most likely be alive because his bleeding at the hospital could be recovered. What is worst and most tragic in this story is that the young man was always conscious and desperate that no help was coming. Desperate and helpless were members of the Mountain Rescue Service and all those who participated in the rescue and are still unhappy about it. They're desperate, unhappy and their loved ones and all of us because it can certainly happen tomorrow to them and to all of us because we laws that would change that we don't have. But should we actually wait for the law to be passed for a few more months? Should we wait for an accident with irreparable consequences such as the example which was in Slovenia which has also long waited with the adoption of this law where, in fact, because of the lack of training and compliance and mandatory procedures that are currently being prescribed by this law, there have been a tragic accident in which five mountain rescuers died. In Slovenia, too, they have delayed the adoption of similar regulations. The result is that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia reached a verdict and declared the wrong Slovenian mountain service because it participated in something that was not regular, was not regulated by law and condemned the state of Slovenia because it did not prescribe what has to be prescribed, as is not prescribed with us. Members of the Slovenian Mountain Rescue Service and the Government of Slovenia still pay compensation to the families of those five victims. I ask a very simple question by delaying and waiting for the adoption of this Act are we waiting for something similar to that of our members of the Mountain Rescue Service in Croatia? And you see a lot of other examples like that. I could lower them for a long, long time, but back to our bill of law, which I believe with what I put out for you who heard it became clear how much it takes to pass this law. Of course he's not ideal, he has his shortcomings. Some of them let me also state here on behalf of the HSP Club but what is quite certain is that although the law is in the emergency procedure I appeal that this law come to another reading as soon as possible and that the sooner it is passed rather than waiting for some disaster that might actually, one accident that might actually sit on the conscience of all of us. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service states that Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is a part of organised operational protection and rescue forces due to the call of the State Administration for protection and rescue and the head of the unit of local and regional self-government to participate in all rescues in major accidents and disasters. The "Croatian Rescue Service" writes "is obliged to provide a review of available operational forces and resources ready to participate". And so on and so forth. We at the HSP Club hold that it is inappropriate to list immediately at the beginning of the law even before the concepts themselves the obligations of the Mountain Rescue Service towards the State Protection and Rescue Authority even though these obligations are already laid down by the Protection and Rescue Act. The more the State Protection and Rescue Authority has not so far proved to be the legislator. The 2006 budget did not secure a position for Croatia's mountain rescue service. She didn't predict it even in the projection until 2009, and the only one who's had a position for... Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Similarly, as a successor to the former Ministry of Protection and Rescue under the MUP, the State Administration should and may finance at least that legal obligation as regards civil protection and the Mountain Rescue Service units established under the Internal Affairs Act. Unfortunately, the money for what I'm talking about today is somewhere in the positions of the Ministry of Health or the positions of the Ministry of the Interior or elsewhere. We think that it is not the state administration that will manage to secure funding for the functioning of the Mountain Rescue Service in terms of what is foreseen by this so-called law. Since I'm running out of time, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to have a personal discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65862	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. To the great joy of Mr. Vukic, I strongly support this legislative proposal. There's been a strange and wonderful thing happening at the same time. That it's the law, that practice actually forced the proposer to settle something by law. So this is where practice goes before the law. That may have allowed the law to be written in this quality. This practice is long, it takes 55 years. It's an honor to all of us. Most honour the members of the Mountain Rescue Service. Acting outside the legal framework, acting without financial support almost illegal. These people are jeopardizing their own lives to save someone else's. These people are making extreme efforts. They have nothing but pleasure, except the happiness of helping someone else. Something about the procedure was now speaking on behalf of the Club of its party, Mr. Rozic. There are some strange things happening at all that the laws that should go into regular procedure here are being followed by an emergency procedure, and the laws that have been prepared to be accepted in an emergency procedure for quite unknown reasons are being sent to the regular procedure. This law is relatively well prepared. There's a couple of grudges, that's to be settled with the amendments. And he could be adopted and I'm surprised why he wasn't sent to such an emergency procedure. I don't think there's a club or a representative here who would object to the urgent adoption of this law. There are no significant objections, here we have heard here the presentation of certain clubs. There is no significant objection to the text of the law. So here's what I'm proposing. If necessary, we will draw it up in writing and deliver it to the President of the Parliament, who will read: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to refer the final proposal of this law to the Parliament already at this session." Already at this session, the session runs until June 10th. It ends before the official start of the tourist season. This law is needed in the tourist season. These people deserve to at least in the tourist season when they have the most work to do, their work is legal. I hope that the Government has this remark, this proposal will have no objection or objection. The only observation that could be highlighted is why it is sent in two readings and that money from the state budget is being spent as soon as possible. That, I see, is the only logical reason. If that's not your reason, then let's bring it in, we'll do the second reading by June 10th and pass the law. Now. Some remarks. There's one large and a few smaller ones. First the big one. Mr. Rožic has now pointed out examples here that the Mountain Rescue Service could not, despite all efforts, carry out successful rescue actions because there was no person in any coordinated action to issue an order to raise a helicopter. Unfortunately, this law does not solve it either. He's not handling it. He legalises the work of the Mountain Rescue Service, but he does not solve the problem. And that problem should be solved. The mountain rescue service or must have its own equipment, so it doesn't need anyone's orders to pick it up, so at least there's one helicopter so that the Croatian Army can give her one helicopter for the first hand until some specialized helicopter is obtained. I know you can't do everything overnight. Or to be regulated in some other way. At the request of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. I think we can show them that trust, that they won't suck, that they're crazy about raising a helicopter. That such a helicopter must be raised within a certain time limit. So if such an order does not arrive by the Croatian Army or the police who have helicopters, then someone must answer for it. So decide to let the government decide now until the second reading of the variant, either to immediately allocate funds or to grant them a helicopter, or something like that. Because without it, be careful, these things that Rosic talked about will be repeated. It can be repeated and no one will be guilty. You know, no one in the army will blame you for making such a decision not to raise a helicopter. You can't blame him, so that's his authority. Gasio said the fire there, the maquis were shutting down and so, he gave the order before that. The question is, can you find a clerk? You know how it goes in the army. He has to ask his superior. By the time it gets to the one who's authorized to lose valuable minutes, precious hours are lost. And then what no one wants, which nobody wants, none of us, nor the government, nor the MPs, nor the Mountain Rescue Service, happens is the least anyone who's threatened. Minister Kirin, I ask you to take this remark as well-intentioned and serious so that until the second reading you try to build it into the law in the best possible way. Now less remarks. In Article 4, you wrote that in the areas of units of local and regional, regional, self-government, the establishment of Croatian mountain rescue services stations. Such an expression implies that they must be established. It would be a better statement, I know you have a follow-up, I know it wasn't your intention, I know it wasn't your intention. I don't blame you or object to your bad intentions. But I think you'd be better off saying "I can be found" if there was a genuine interest in the units of local self-government and the Mountain Rescue Service. It's simply more precise, because this kind of expression in law means bonding. And I'm not going now, I think we have a Hum, an Istrian town with 4, 5 houses, and it would be funny if every community or city had to start. Then you have a clumsy statement in Article 6. One of the basic tasks with which disaster prevention starts. You in this dictionary there in Article 3 general do not define an accident, which is an accident. Well, by definition, your accident is some sort of sudden and unpredictable event. Now we can't assign the Mountain Rescue Service to prevent unpredictable and sudden events. Because that would be an absurd request. She's doing it, you put it in one indent, you put on duty to prevent accidents. Well, that's fine. People are on duty to see if there's been a fire anywhere, but something's been going on. Or the implementation of preventive measures that you have in one indent, and that's it. Pre-emptive measures shall be implemented. And that's enough. But to put them in charge of preventing something that no one knows is going to happen and what happens suddenly would really be absurd. And just one more remark from Minister Kirin. It shall be referred to in Article 22 and the criminal provisions. Penalties, punishments are too mild. Look out, from a thousand to 3,000 kunas, people who endanger their own life and life, health and material resources from another person by not following the safety warnings and instructions of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. So be careful, the one that the Mountain Rescue Service comes to and says, "Here's a warning, and he doesn't listen to another person's life, it's absolutely too small a maximum penalty of three thousand kunas." They should be at least, so perhaps they can even punish themselves as putting other people's lives at risk. But this punishment must be such that something like that doesn't occur to him, not to play with it. There are also 5 000 kunas in Article 23, which do not comply with this provision in Article 13. Article 13 tells you about the organizers of sports tourism and other facilities, then in the mountains and other non-accessible areas that do not care about the safety of participants. They have to worry, we have to make them worry. Here, this law will be established, legalized in fact by the Mountain Rescue Service which will help them in the event of an accident, to help these people. But we won't do unnecessary work for the Mountain Rescue Service by being gentle to those who won't act preventively, and they won't, because they're warned, so they won't, so they're completely recklessly resisting the instructions of the Mountain Rescue Service. They should be punished drastically for example by all others to take care of it. Therefore, praise for the legal text and with all these remarks, of course, we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65864	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65865	Thank you very much. Replica fellow Stazic. Indeed, the examples I have set on behalf of the club might be suspected that even after this law has been passed they will not be resolved, at least as far as the command line is concerned. In the meantime, however, a law was passed, i.e. The Law on Protection and Rescue, which formed the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, and within that Law, is governed by this command responsibility which you have spoken of. It is only that within this law and this command responsibility was not particularly regulated by the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service as it participates in this rescue chain, in this chain of command, what this law will do, which is also not decided by this law to say in unequivocal terms. But it is open to the possibility that within the mountainous, i.e. the Mountain Rescue Service is engaged during this chain of command established at the State Protection and Rescue Authority. Whether or not this will be done by the state administration, we can't predict it, but if that possibility exists now, it exists. I'm going to give you an example, but what I wanted to replicate is another example, so I'm going to give you another example. Emergency medical attention and firemen tried to get the badly injured man out of the break-in for four hours. Because of the lack of naturally specialized equipment and skills, they failed. Only after four hours did someone remember that there is a Croatian Mountain Rescue Service to be called, which could have been resolved by the first with minimal coordination, but at the first call, by a tip to the MUP four hours earlier. So the MUP received a tip, there sent ambulances and firefighters who had been tortured for four hours, no one thought to call the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and do so. It is now made possible by this law, and it does not require any kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65866	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65867	You say colleague Rožic has an open opportunity to include the Mountain Rescue Service. That's what I'm appealing to. That this open possibility should not be left open. Not to be left open but to close. So it is not the problem of the Protection and Rescue Act to bring in, to bring in actually some articles, the provisions that you have defined there and into this law, so that you don't have to change both of them, because the Protection and Rescue Act should now introduce provisions, introduce the existence of this law when it is passed, but then it is easier for you when we adopt this law simply to transfer some of the provisions of that law so that this possibility doesn't remain what your colleague Rosic would say in an open, open manner than that those two laws are connected and that it is quite clear how the line of command goes and who is responsible if the line of command is not respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65868	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65869	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Mountain Rescue Service. So the first thing I want to say is that here we are obliged to give recognition to all the members of the Mountain Rescue Service for everything they have done in the past 56 years in various different protection and rescue actions, where they have saved human lives, injured and various situations where they have been and it would really be far better for us to bring the final one today, to discuss the final bill and not the law in the first reading, and therefore also to join the colleagues who have said, I think it would be okay and that we should oblige the government to deliver already during this session in the process of passing the final proposal of the law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service so that this law would be passed in June of this year and that at least in one part of the service we should be able to wait for the upcoming tourist season, because if it is delayed, then you will be made a variant that the law will be passed somewhere in September, and we know that we are late. In the law itself, the first thing that is important is that, as colleagues have said, it is necessary here in the law to bear in mind two situations that should be developed from this part of the structure and generally the roles and tasks of the Mountain Rescue Service. First, it is the independent action of the Mountain Rescue Service in these actions in which they are operating today, and it is precisely to be defined from the point of view, they have information, either directly or they will have information through the center 112. They have the means, but they need, they have the strength but they need the means. The forces are theirs, the means are helicopters, transportation and other forms that can reach the site in time, and that's what needs to be regulated in that part of the law exactly how and in any way without all these situations happening in practice or that the military doesn't have enough helicopters ready or there are no police, but that's the part that during the tourist season where it's mostly current, I have to regulate this variant first, so when the service acts independently, the information gets either from the center 112, or they have the strength, but they need the resources to carry out that task. And this is the situation and clearly it needs to be regulated and thus will be most helpful in their actions of protection and rescue. The second one is the variant that is immediately subject to Article 4 here in the law if it is about mountain service, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service must make available to the system of protection and rescue, which is a normal variant, if it is about disasters, major elemental disasters and other incidents that can happen, because we must be aware that Croatia's mountain rescue service is only one of the parts of the factors of the overall system of protection and rescue. Once it was contained in civil protection measures, Croatia was making a mistake here because it was never sufficiently worked out by civil protection because under the mountain rescue service it was thought to rescue from avalanche and various other situations such as the Alps and all other variants, we see today how much the number of interventions increased and there was this huge mistake. So I think it would be important for this part to go so to do this part along with this structure and normal action. To precisely define the action of independent actions and actions within the system so that they can receive timely funding so that they can intervene in a timely manner and prevent even more difficult consequences. The second situation I want to say here is that the entire protection and rescue system in Croatia should finally be put into full function. Now that we are talking about a system of protection and rescue, today is one of the essential parts of the system of protection and rescue, we must be aware that at this moment we have only this part of the information, it is the service that has been made and the establishment of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, but we still lack those other essential parts to make it work, this is part of the chain of command and, in particular, the strength and resources. First of all, I mean parts like civil protection that aren't regulated to this day, they had to be regulated by law long ago. It is part of God not to let anything happen in Croatia. We also know that these elements, i.e. the factors of the protection and rescue system, worked well for us during the Homeland War, not well but acted fairly and played their part in all possible actions of protection and rescue, but civil protection is unfortunately on the margins today. The question is, what is the situation with both the special forces and the general purpose units? What's the situation with shelters, that's a pretty tough problem. Let's just say they're not being held up, they're not being renewed, they're being deployed, they're acting like the headquarters of command and everything, and they're all important ingredients, and that's the part that I expect the government to come out soon, and with that part, especially for civil protection. And finally, look at this situation. We now have these parts such as the Croatian Mountain Service, we have part of the fire department, the police and then we involve the army. We know when and how an army can be involved under the law if it goes beyond scale, we come into a state of elemental disasters, but we don't have a system that we should have. So that's part of us, make a system the way we should have, and when you look here you say that the funds for the needs of, say, Croatian Mountain Rescue Services are at the position of the State Administration, so here and there. They're not really, we know that the problem with resources for the entire system of the State administration is if you see what the situation is, what the amount of funds is. It would be evident that something very much can be done at year level in terms of putting into operation all of these factors that make up the system of protection and rescue. The best option would be that, as part of this, there are specific positions both for Croatia's mountain rescue service for both civil protection and everything. For the fire department, both professionally and this part of volunteer fire. And to see this kind of guidance as well as how and how to get to that level of that system works. In particular, we here in the Croatian Parliament often have various international agreements or agreements in which we undertake to help other countries in various actions of protection and rescue, and we know that we cannot help ourselves in the given situation. We saw when there were floods and all the other situations. So it's really high time to figure out the possibilities and gradually put the entire system of protection and rescue, so all of these important elements and factors into full function. Because if that variant didn't happen to us, we even had a case of these regional centers... the phones were turned off because they weren't paid in time for phone bills. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, these are the situations that speak for it, I spoke for myself, and at the beginning of the call of this House, that we must go to the State Department for Protection and Rescue where everything will be united. The government has accepted it, but now there's the most important part. We now have the State Administration, we have the Centre 112, and we don't have all of this, at least we don't have the form and the way we should have it. So this is one of the major shifts, I'm going to end up with that part. So, the government should be responsible already at this session to refer the final bill proposal, so that the service would have its own framework of action already for this tourist season and especially in this section when they are on the use of funds, when they perform in independent actions, that they do not have to wait, beg. This is where the centre, or 112, is to be ordered by the State Administration and there is nothing to think about. The funds must be, whether they will be in this location, whether they will be in that location it doesn't matter, but the plane, or the helicopter, must be picked up immediately and go into protection and rescue action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65870	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65871	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is one in a series of laws that want to round up one area that has not been rounded up so far, and there have been preconditions because 55 years of service that has achieved significant results, which is integrated into the world's rescue Federation, which is compatible with the international quality level, has also come to the agenda of this House. Of course, this proposal for a law covering 20 articles is a modern nomotechnically arranged and clarity of certain articles and legal statements should indeed be a good view of how laws must look in modern times. I would particularly like to highlight a mountain rescue service from the Split-Dalmatia County, which has saved a number of lives by its direct pawnage, courage and courage. Not only on Biokov and Mosor, but also on Pelješac and Vido Gora in Brač, St. Nikola on Hvar, and there was no time when they were not ready to go to save people's lives. For this reason, but as an incentive to other services, they also received a series of County Prizes from the Split-Dalmatia County. The segment that he would particularly point out is that according to indicators almost 79% of tourists come on a journey due to sport and recreation, and how these citizens live throughout the year in almost sterile conditions are eager to get more excited, to cause major risks, and that for Croatia, which is a unique combination of the sea, mountains, islands, rivers, as if it were created. So are recreational tourism, canyoning, rafting, speleology, free climbing. Often and inexperienced tourists who cannot resist the challenges of summer charms engage in what they are not ready and able to do to the end. The structure and activity were very clear and would agree with colleagues who had previously stressed in this text, the Mountain Rescue Service was going, so stations in the area of individual counties, so 21 counties might have to base the station. I'm not sure if every county has to have such a Croatian Mountain Rescue Service station, but it could only be said I can establish it, and it certainly needs to be established. She'll start it. This is very clearly demonstrated in the structure and activities, and here there is an expression of why the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is organised and how it improves and carries out the activities of saving and protecting human lives in the mountains and in unaccessible areas and in other exceptional circumstances. I will highlight this organisation of the transportation of injured, sick persons from the mountains and other non-accessible areas, and the submission of requests to the competent services for helicopter transport, further through the centre 112 and should be pointed out that also the criminal provisions indicate that one who does not listen to them will be expelled by both criminal and fines, which is very clear. Furthermore, it is also clearly said that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service has the following public authority in its activities and I am inclined to say that they can conduct training and training, seminars, courses. All these things are brought by the minister of course and of course what is a clear link to the State Protection and Rescue Authority must be one continuous string and chain which could then be safely placed precisely to guarantee the safety of all those who have come to the Republic of Croatia, but also to domestic adventurers. A modern way has been resolved for members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service who are in a working relationship, who participate in the intervention during working hours. That doesn't mean they'll all be employees at that station. Many are willing to be available at all times, but if they are protected by all the right to be absent from work for participation in interventions and have the right to compensation. What is especially important are the organizers and participants of sports, tourist and other contents in nature, mountainous areas, often irresponsible organisers ready to organise something just to collect money does not care that both activity in nature and mountainous areas, of course and sailing at sea often happens summer storms, that they must observe the safety warnings and instructions of Croatia's mountain rescue services as well as the rules of conduct in sports tourist facilities and areas, on ski routes, mountainous and other non-accessible areas so as not to endanger their own life, health and material resources of other persons. Therefore, participants and organizers and participants of sports tourism activities. Funding also shows that the recognizability and necessity of the need for the functioning of Croatia's mountain rescue service should be distinguished. It acquires funds from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, but from the budget of units of local and regional self-government, so of course it should be pointed out in those in which the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service stations operate and it should be permanent, mandatory. Which height, means always a good estimate of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government because, based on current interventions and engagements, it can be clearly projected in future times, in the budgets of these funds. Of course, there are also needs that will be built into tenfold in view of current indicators and donations of contracted gift and inheritance services. It is also not possible to avoid what is necessary, and these are the means of equipment and training of members of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service, it is necessary to achieve and develop further international cooperation, informative publishing activities, but also media presence and local media, in order to really in one best way in the environments in which they act to make their foundation, their existence, their organisation so that we do not find that they cannot be engaged because of ignorance. And the transitional and final provisions say what units of local and regional self-government must do and within what time. I believe that many of them who have been participating so far, and have not been legally obliged to develop it to perfection, because that is the only way to guarantee security and every citizen can develop any economic activity in the future, but also save a community a large amount of money. The current trend in tourism demand, the desire for experience, is necessary to foresee specific prevention programmes, all of which the law predicted, of course, perhaps some other precision that was missing here, and it is not important that this law should be done in order to bring it in as soon as possible. Whether summer or winter and so far, the mountain rescue service has worked without law, but it is necessary to create legal frameworks so that indeed all those involved and organised can be guaranteed. Commendation also to this promoter, I believe that the Croatian government will do all that it promises to accomplish until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65872	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65873	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the ministry, respected representatives of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. I would start with this thesis that in Croatia, those who come to Croatia do not buy goods and services but experience, and if we transfer it to all others who can come to certain dangers in Croatia, then actually this is a very important document where I would actually start my exposure from what it is to experience in Croatia. The experience in Croatia can certainly be Diocletian's palace, Franciscan pharmacy in Dubrovnik, and it can also be Srđ and Mosor and Biokovo and numerous pits in karst and Red Lake in Imotsko. The experience can be bought by sunbathing and swimming in Brel, but also by enjoying flying, say, a paraglider, collecting asparagus and snails. So you can buy danger too. The Mountain Rescue Service in its definition is said to be a voluntary organization with the task of saving and providing first aid to the inaccessible space where special skills and techniques and equipment should be applied in rescue, including medical assistance as well as medical assistance as you see here in your unit, so to speak, 360 people have 20 doctors and I welcome them as a doctor. And medical care depends primarily on the level at which it is provided, from the equipment, from the education and from the time, so the password relating to the experience I would translate it into an almost-integrated English version of "Time from Money" or "Time is Money". It is now suddenly and suddenly being translated into another version adopted by the International Mountain Rescue Services Association as its own motto "Time from Life" – "Time is Life". So I understand the exposure of my colleagues and his examples of how time really is the key. But of course I disagree with the message he sent. Among other things, because the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service website literally states: "The service has fifty-year experience and the results of more than three thousand rescue actions that have all been carried out successfully, without error and safely." In all these rescue actions, the adverse effects of accidents and injuries, reduced disability and accelerated recovery of injured people have always been reduced and, on many occasions, in dramatic circumstances, human life is directly and saved. That knowledge is the greatest compensation for all the efforts of the mountain rescuers. So Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service has great successes. The failures mentioned here don't always have to be necessary because we haven't defined this and that yet. In fact, no one is obliged to provide medical assistance whether or not something is regulated or not, but it is necessary to act exactly in accordance with the profession as such. I believe that this bill is a systematic basis that will benefit all top climbers, speleologists, climbers and doctors, members of the Mountain Rescue Service, as well as all those who can get into a situation to use these services. I'd like to conclude. This law will legalise actions, coordinate and prevent accidents, make the system even more effective and hopefully even more likely to prevent possible accidents as well as improve the provision of emergency medical assistance, which is an integral part of this job. I also hold this law that it will actually contribute to the overall public health security of all Croatian citizens and all those who possess Croatian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65874	Thank you. At 18 hours and 9 minutes, the time for application for an individual debate is up on this agenda point. Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65875	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, and respected representatives of the Mountain Rescue Service! The Croatian Mountain Rescue Service has so far acted as a voluntary and non-profit association of public importance. It specializes in saving in mountains, rocks and other inaccessible places where special equipment for saving in the mountains should be used. The Mountain Rescue Service takes care of the safety of citizens and guests 24 hours 365 days a year. It is not important to note that the Mountain Rescue Service was founded in 1950, records 55 years of action and a series of actions that saved human lives in difficult weather conditions in mountainous areas, steep and difficult walking terrains and high facilities. The Mountain Rescue Service provides all major ski resorts in Croatia, safety at mountain bike races, sports climbing competitions, extreme sports and others. Mountain rescuers are currently Croatia's most prepared alpinists, speleologists and other specialists trained to provide first medical assistance. In particular, it should be noted that the Mountain Rescue Service and its members do not charge for the rescue and saved human life and the rapid recovery of the saved fee are also for their efforts. For many years now, there has been a need for modern regulation of the activities of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service as a public service and arrangement and activities in a way to ensure its financing and activity of interest to the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, support and acceptance of the Proposal for a Law on the Mountain Rescue Service is given in particular, given that the safety and protection of life and health throughout the territory of Croatia is a primary human and strategic public need. That Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service is a factor in preventing the security of the occurrence of accidents or excalating these events into disasters or major accidents in the area, especially under worse weather conditions. That the current trend in tourism demand is the desire for experience and adventure, which is increasingly developing sports and recreation tourism all the way to very extreme rafting sports, speleology, free climbing, alpinism, dragonry, air sports, underwater sports and others. It is necessary to introduce specific prevention and warning programmes when visiting non-accessible areas or organising dangerous sports activities. That it is necessary for lifeguards to make valid benefits and their insurance rights based on injuries and the like. So I could keep counting, but I would just like to look back on, or comment on, two articles. In addition to Article 4 in the adoption of the Statutes of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, it is not clear who adopts the Statute. It is also important to say in accordance with Article 6 that it is not clear whether the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is organising and saving in the non-accessible areas of the island and coast except in the cases referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. In particular, tasks in the field of preventive action, warning, map of dangerous areas, movement bans, announcements of planned visits to dangerous areas should be developed in the context of Croatia's rescue mission. I fully advocate the passing of this law, and I support it, and I hope we have it soon in another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65876	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65877	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister! I see that there is practically one general consensus about the adoption of this law then it won't be necessary to advocate much for it, so I'll just have a few thoughts and I'm glad and I want to highlight the gratitude of the people who come from the constituency that I, from the county from which I am from which I am like up Mr. Vinko Prizic, Stipe Christmas and others also known or less famous people who should really be thanked no matter how legal, illegal they have done and threatened their lives to save others what is already highlighted here. But this bill integrates into a unique national system of protection and rescue, and it is indeed worth it because what Croatia has sea, mountains, canyons, sports and recreational tourism, extreme sports are really great risks and without one such service, and even more importantly without such people many lives, many would not survive. And that's why it's worth mentioning one thank you for all of them. And we've all witnessed these actions together because the cameras are very close, so we could all make sure of that. What will happen next to integration with this law? So the work will be regulated but as important as it is materially important, the way of funding is resolved and will materially improve status and equipment. Equipment that can't be done without. There were a few questions here, questions as to whether an emergency procedure was a second reading? And so on. Some colleagues are always the opposite. If an emergency procedure is required in two readings. If it is, now that the two readings are looking for an emergency procedure. I don't care, but as my colleague Stazic put it, I thought it would take a mountain rescue service intervention to save him in his grief. And to be convincing, I would believe that in the past four years his party in power could have been brought in one, two, three, in five readings. And then it's not now, but when it's in two readings, now it's a problem. It's not a problem if it's assessed, if the government evaluates and in one reading, it's completely irrelevant, but let's not forget what we did yesterday and what we could do. Thank you very much. [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65878	Honorable representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65879	Your Honor, Mr. President, Minister. I'm not a particular expert on this area, but I certainly want to say and join those who have spoken of that maybe punishment should be made bigger. Of course, they are well measured and not exaggerated in anything, but I would like to join myself in making them sharper and more efficient from there. I would also support that the second reading is already in this session. That before the season and before tourism and everything else, with this kind of consent that the government in the House has given us that law. But I would like to add without repeating what has already been said because we often repeat what has already been said, and we can speak even shorter, only two of our attitudes. The first is, there is no objectively any real reason why it took so long for this matter to be systematically arranged. The responsibility is only for those who should have taken care of it, so certainly both politicians and former governments are that this matter has not been properly arranged so far. It's also the responsibility of Mr. Racan's government where I sat. But all other governments before that. I apologize if I, as Minister of Finance, may also have affected not to get rid of it. However, the fact is that this problem has not been sufficiently apostrophealed. That, at the same time, there are 300 other problems that arise daily and that this has been the case. But it doesn't justify anyone. This could have been solved long before and before and before and 2000. Secondly, the people who do this job are people of special value. I wouldn't describe what that means. It must not happen now with such people that, for example, permanent equipment that is not up to what these people need is a problem. It's about modern equipment. It's about what other people like that need also shouldn't be a problem and objectively it's not a problem, it's just up to us, and now, first of all, about this government and this government, whether it's going to be settled or not. Minister, don't let that happen, that some other problems may not be solved. For example, we are now going to standardize that area. Often, our laws simply spoil something that is already good in practice. Don't let this normation here determine some bureaucratic logic in the ranks of those who 56 years as people of special character do this for free. And that happens to us a lot. Often laws and norms when we want to turn something into a norm from what they do wrong. So it's just now time to take care of it especially when this law is what it is. Therefore, simply with the agreement you get for this in Parliament, simply you who are now in office do not allow yourself to apologize after some time for something that is objectively to be done now and can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65880	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. He's gone. He's losing his word. The club also concluded a five-minute debate. Interior Minister Ivica Kirin's final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65881	Dear parliamentary MPs, MPs, and I particularly welcome members of the Croatian Mountain Service and Rescue. Today I am very comfortable and as a proponent to speak in front of the Croatian home for one reason that we all share a common opinion here and of course what you have all encouraged through your debate whether it is possible by law to solve something like this, we have thought about it, but we have let the profession say its own. What I would like to say is not easy to establish a unique integrated rescue system and precisely perhaps the irregularity of the legal part of Croatia's mountain rescue service is perhaps part of what we are, we can get now, and this is after the establishment of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. Because saving human life is said to be the most sacred and most humane thing to do to a man, a stranger to a stranger, and therefore this debate is also productive and we can only publicly thank everyone who worked to save human lives and precisely the purpose of this law was to secure funds using all material and technical means available not only to the Croatian Ministry of Protection and Rescue but also to the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the State Department for Protection and Rescue and the Ministry of Health and other institutions and units of local self-government at the moment when it requires a certain situation. I'd just turn for, to some things that were touched, and that was, there was one in the topic of conversation that maybe you should have left a bigger autonomy. Look at just a lot of things in the field, and the Ministry of Interior whose head I am is in control, and we're usually the first to get the first information. It's just one of the visions of the State Administration and the law, so the State Administration for Protection and Rescue is precisely that through various segments of those who must have certain disasters and accidents first come out is precisely that they have joint work. That is why, as well as as proposings and as a profession, we have put them at the State Department for Protection and Rescue where they will have all their autonomy about the job itself, because they know best what to do in the field. But we just wanted to achieve that when someone calls 112 to know at that point what kind of accident it is, who has to react and who takes responsibility. That's very important. 'Cause there's a lot of times when an ambulance doesn't come, maybe there's an army nearby, maybe it's the Home Office, maybe they're firefighters, knowing who's gonna take responsibility. Well, that was the point of it, and I think it's coming. 112 is actually a unique system that has one command structure, and for us and for the ministry that we are monitoring is very simple then to determine if something is going on because of inadequate assistance perhaps because someone has been laity or unseriously approached to carry out exactly what is called and we ask for and responsibility. There were questions here, Croatian Mountain Service and helicopter service. I can say today that right with the State Department of Protection and Rescue we wanted to get another effect. We are too small to measure ourselves with countries far, far more isolated. But we realized one thing, that through the material and technical means that we have at the Ministry of the Interior, at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and in all other institutions that through certain, we call it standard operating procedure, we can unite that they can be used at a given time. Which means, except for these 3, 4 helicopters that we have in our 24-hour watch that are in Split and Zagreb that the nearest helicopter, depending on who asks for help, can be picked up on the ground of the 112s. Just reducing the time to act, especially when it comes to saving a human life is very important. And that's the whole point of the thing, to shorten time, to increase efficiency and get everyone involved, and especially when it comes to the scales of a larger disaster, to know who's in charge and who's doing what. There, that was the main purpose and the idea. And the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service only complements that command line and simply they comply with their rules. What, there were stories here, the same thing was said, and that's what we talked about, the training program. Of course, the Ministry of Science has given consent to the Director of the State Administration to develop, along with, a faithful training program which, of course, proposes a profession and it is very important to say. Because we have enough experience, 55 years behind us. And experience is big enough so that we can also boast about our neighboring countries. Because no matter what we didn't have the law, here's our brave rescuers working in all conditions, and for that we should say a special thank you. Of course it's always a matter of resources. It's said who's going to pay for it. I can only say one thing here as a man who has proposed a budget for the Ministry of the Interior in which the State Protection and Rescue Authority is located, and with them is the Croatian Fire Department. There is a Croatian Mountain Rescue Service that as far as the funds are concerned, it will now be much easier. Because it will stand out for the highest quality equipment that the profession itself will say what is needed for certain areas. And it's very important to say that a million and 400 thousand kuna are also allocated through the budget. What I agree with these remarks exactly is that, because there was some kind of formal procedure that the doctor wasn't around to ask for a helicopter, he couldn't lift a helicopter. Here you see, that's why, 112, and this is exactly the law that solves the fact that you know who can lift a helicopter at whatever point, regardless of which we actually avoid legal formalities, or procedures that have been illogical so far. Because every situation is specific on the ground and it needs to be reacted very quickly. When we talked about local self-government right now, we can accept that it's not technically possible. Anyway, we did not want to impose obligations, but we wanted every local self-government to do so, depending on its area of determination in what sense and to what purpose and what need it naturally needs Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. And we will, from the state level, of course, do so after the agreements are signed and financially supported. There were questions that the criminal provisions of punishment were too mild. I'll tell you for one reason. We have imposed legal penalties, because those penalties are regulated by other laws and at that point, if there is a misrepresentation, they can be interpreted by other regulations. So this is just what the clean Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is all about. It was also a question of the statute, who brings it. As far as the statutes are concerned, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service brings it itself. It is an association of citizens and in accordance with the terms of the statutes in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, what I'm very pleased to say is that you've all had the same, same thoughts that we've had on professional colleges when the law was being discussed. Of course, the law, for that very reason, had to wait a long time and according to that, before I gave the final contortion, I would just like to say some facts so that you can see that many things have been done after all. This year we had 37 air demand actions and across the country in which the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service took part through the centre 112. We have 3 to 4 helicopters available for rescue action at this time, which are waiting 24 hours in Split and Zagreb. All helicopter actions in recent years have been activated between 20 and 30 minutes, and the average of calls to transportation incursed to the hospital is 67 minutes. The standard operating procedures for the various situations of the centre 112 are in final agreement, which means that they participate as I have listed those institutions of the Republic of Croatia, and the process of mutual harmonisation lasts for two to three months. And this year it's, it's being built in and... It will be built in and, the experience is built in and one year actually works, the activities of the State Protection and Rescue Administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would like to say is, by listening to all the clubs of the MPs in the end, we accept the conclusion, and as a promoter, we will refer to the Government to supplement and amend this law at individual points. We will show ourselves with individual proposals and remarks where we will send the proposal to the government's meeting by the 10th meeting, but when it is the first session of the Parliament to pass the law before the tourist season. Regardless of this law, I can only say on behalf of all those people who work day and night on the security of citizens that what is the greatest beauty of our people is this and these members of the Croatian Mountain Service rescue that regardless of the existing law Croatia will and Croatian services will be ready for the next tourist season and we will take care of all citizens in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as we have done in the last 50 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-24-0.u65882	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate... we vote on the first reading of the law you can immediately send the bill to the second reading, so it will be very soon then and after a brief procedure and debate and adoption. [[You don't understand.]] Now we wouldn't continue with the session, so we'll interrupt it and tomorrow we'll continue with the Animal Protection Bill proposal. SECURE Interrupted at 18.53 P.M. Proposal for a law on Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service, first reading I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on Croatia's mountain rescue service is accepted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? Consistent with 90 votes to go. And according to Agent Nenad Stazic's proposal, I conclude: "It is up to the government of the Republic of Croatia to give the final proposal of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service by the end of the 20th session in the parliamentary procedure." The government agrees with this proposal to conclude it in a second reading. Let's vote. Let's get on with it. The result? 74, 9, 2. Let the government deliver it by the end of the 20th session. And by when there'll be a 20th session about that then.
