ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78610	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I demand that today, during this session, either the Prime Minister or the foreign minister in connection with the latest scandal involving Croatia's signing not to activate its "ZERP". Last night we heard a statement from the European Commission saying exactly how Croatia committed itself in June 2004 not to declare its "ZERP" and extend to the member states of the European Union. It means another scandal that we representatives of the Croatian Parliament learn from the European Commission, and it is obvious that many officials who sign something on behalf of Croatia should be banned from wearing a pen. So we ask that today, during the day, either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, exactly why is this the case and what has Croatia signed? Because the European Commission's position is clear. They believe the record has the same binding character, so it is a question of who, past the Croatian Parliament, can accept such a commitment for the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78611	Thank you very much. You heard yesterday and the Prime Minister who informed the public that it was not a treaty or agreement, but that it was a record in which the Croatian government stated that decisions related to "ZERP" would not be unilaterally applied. Justice Minister Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78612	Mr. President, that's not true. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78613	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is another amendment here, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice, on the Court Register. This amendment is taking place in a procedure or for the purpose of harmonising domestic legislation with European Union legislation, and in this case it is necessary to bring the existing Court Register Act in line with the amended first Directive or the provisions of Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2003. In addition to meeting one of the obligations made by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the adoption of this Act will mark the transition in a modern way to the management of documents and data, which will enable the effective functioning of the court register as a public book and contribute to additional security of the economic and legal case, which will ultimately be another contribution to creating a more favourable investment climate in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the provisions of the first, in accordance with the provisions of the amended first Directive, with the current keeping of the main data book in electronic form, these amendments and the management and publication of documents which are subject to the law with the application for registration in the court register are also provided in electronic form. This will make it possible for anyone, without proof of legal interest, to gain insight into documents and data not only through direct insight into the collection of documents but also simply through computers and via the Internet. Thus, the principle of transparency of the court register as a public book will be met directly, which is the meaning of all public records and books. Furthermore, a legal basis for the communication of registers with public notaries and other authorised persons has been created by registering how the procedure for enrolment in the court register will be significantly accelerated and will further contribute to the resuscitation of the principle of urgency of enrolment, which will also contribute indirectly to the security of legal, economic and legal traffic, and here we are pleased to say with satisfaction that a meeting of judges of trade courts has reached extraordinary urgency and transparency already now. By also meeting the requirements of the European Union concerning the register of public books, all documents and data which require that all documents and data be kept and made available at one place in these amendments, the obligation to submit annual financial reports to the court register has also been introduced. In this way, we keep this extremely important because in this way all economic operators will be able to gain insight into all relevant data on the entity with which they intend to enter into a certain economic or other legal relationship which will further strengthen trust in the institutions of the judicial authorities and strengthen the stability of the economic system as a whole. The time of entry into force of these provisions has been postponed in relation to the provisions of articles relating to the possibility of delivering documents by electronic means and their storage and issue in electronic form. As the date of application, it was selected on 1 January 2009 and all in accordance with the deadlines for the completion of the information process of the courts. Finally, the law introduces the possibility of enrolling in a court register of legal entities such as the European Trade Company and the European Economic Interest Group and all in accordance with the provisions of the 2002 Regulation of the Council of the European Union. On the Statute of the European Trade Company and of the Council Regulation on the European Economic Interest Group. The delay in the application of these provisions is until Croatia enters the European Union for reasons that the same provisions, i.e. the same economic associations, are not provided for by the Croatian Commercial Society Act. However, when Croatia enters the European Union, this Directive will also apply to the legislation of a Member State directly and therefore they will not have to be entered into the Trade Society Act and will be registered in the register in accordance with European regulations. Here, ladies and gentlemen, before you is the bill of law and your remarks in the debate will be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78614	Thank you. The committees, the judiciary. Committee President-in-Office, Honorable Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78615	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. At the 48th session held on 28 November 2006, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 7 November 2006. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Prime Minister of Justice pointed out that the amendments in question and the amendments to the law continue to comply with the acquis of the European Union. It is proposed, in addition to the current management of the main data book in electronic form, to manage and publish documents which are attached with the registration application also in electronic form, the communication of registration courts with public notebooks. It is also proposed in electronic form and the obligation to submit annual financial reports to the court register is introduced. The possibility of enrolling in a court register of some legal entities such as the European Trade Company and the European Economic Interest Group, with a delay in applying until the entry into the European Union, is introduced. The proposal was also made clear on the business provision to adopt, after an emergency procedure, laws that comply with European Union rules, noting that there is no need for urgent adoption in particular. In the debate, members of the committee unanimously proposed the amendments in question and the amendments to the laws in question. In addition to the fact that the law in question, in line with the regulations of the European Union, makes the proposed communication of public notebooks with registering courts in electronic form, which contributes to the achievement of the principle of urgency of enrolment. The unquestionable fact is that court registries have achieved up-to-dateness in their work, but a question is raised that can guarantee full confidence in the court register. In this connection, the need for public notaries to be responsible for identification and other documents on the basis of which the registration is made in the court register and guarantees the accuracy of the data. Following the debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament with 7 votes. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be presented in the debate on the bill's proposal to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78616	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ Representatives Club is a respected representative of Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78617	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is also this bill that confirms how dynamicly the Croatian Parliament is a legislative body that really follows what is happening in practice so that it can be regulated by law. This way highlights the important paper, the important changes. Because from the day of entry into force of this '95 Court Register Act. There's been a series of changes, complements. However, this confirmed the commitment that our legislation is indeed in line with European legislation in order to facilitate the business of a number of entities. What is most important in which the provisions are highlighted here is that, in the context of modernization, companies will have to be able to choose how they will store mandatory acts and data, and what is most important is that it is precisely in electronic form. Thus, the concept of publication within the meaning of this law is defined in order to remove any doubt as to what the wording covers. One legal precision that has been a little neglected so far. Moreover, due to the adaptation of the Croatian legal system, the application of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council has extended the application of the Directive to all entities subject to the registration regime, which means that the provisions of this law will be applied equally to all registration entities, thereby further contributing to the transparency of the court register. What is stated in these amendments is one of the main objectives to achieve this amendment to the law is to extend the instruments that truly fully implement the principles of public and transparency, and I repeat this in a way that introduces the possibility of publishing the documents in electronic form and aligns one of the basic principles of the registration procedure with the principle of urgency. And in the field of information, it certainly required a legal assumption to establish communication by electronic means in the first place between the registration courts and the public notebooks. In fact, the exchange of documents by electronic means would significantly speed up the process because there would be a lack of stages of physical delivery, registration with appropriate documents, and the possibility of misuse of documents and fraud would be reduced, and certainly to allow for one systematicity in the storage of all documents and documents. A similar way is achieved in our neighbouring Republic of Austria, and it is very successful. The possibility of enrolment in the court register of new legal forms, such as European trade society, has also been introduced. It is also a European economic interest group, and all in accordance with the provisions of the Council Regulation. And also in accordance with the Statute of the European Trade Society. What we want to point out in this important paper is the time of entry into force of this law, that on 1 January 2009, it is enough time for all the entities to be affected by this change of laws that are livingly interested to adapt, educate and thus catch up with developed countries of Europe or the world. And everything in terms of faster and more effective economic development of legal certainty and making it possible, as quickly as possible and faster, through the court register, to implement all the provisions. It is also commendable for this amended law and for the exercise of the right to see data, for the publication of extracts from the main book to be conducted in electronic form and for the examination and publication of documents and data stored on paper or in electronic form as referred to in paragraph 4 of Article 4. So it is necessary to enable each register, regardless of which register it is registered, to be entered in the register of documents if it is available to it at all. Of course, what is even more important is that apart from the information that has been instructed so far in terms of the law on European society to sign up for the case of moving to the Republic of Croatia's current company. Also intended to move the headquarters to another Member State. And what should be pointed out in particular is that they are entered, registered for a member of the administration a possible function of the president, vice president or director of the company in order to enable one clarity and one additional legal certainty indeed in legal traffic. It is also important to point out that Article 36 also changes and adds the word " last name" of the word: "procursts whose prosecution is limited to the branch". It is also important to point out that the register, that the register will be deleted by the registration entity at the request of the tax office authority if the registration entity does not have the property. And it's also going to be automatically deleted if in a few years, I think it's 3, that no financial indicators are published. All in order to achieve legal certainty, compliance with the laws of the European Union. Because it will be a relief, indeed, when the register, under official duty, implements the process of eradicating society if, I repeat, within 3 years, it does not act by legal obligation to hand over its annual financial reports, or deliver them to the court within 6 months after the court announces the initiation of the erasure procedure, and within that time it does not make it more likely that it had the property. Many times so far, it has proved that long - term procedures have been conducted, and success is, of course, false because there has been no and that they were able to settle certain claims. And these changes will allow a really elegant way of creating legal certainty and avoiding unnecessary delay in procedures rather than reacting in time. I also point out the language in this law. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club also supports the courage to pass further draft laws that will create even better legal certainty, raise awareness of Croatian legislation and thus prepare in time for us to do what the countries of the developed economic world and developed and established legal certainty do. And I use the occasion to congratulate all Nicholas today on the holiday of St. Nicholas, protector of sailors and travelers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78618	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78619	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister. The Croatian party club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register. Namely, this is the seventh novel of this law. And we believe that this novel is one of many important novels that will enable more, which will enable, or strengthen legal implementation in the work, the work of the principle of public and trust in the public books, and we know that this is a major problem in modern Croatia and that this will in many ways also enable the successful economic business of all entities to have a full overview of the situation with which they are dealing. What is the situation with a specific company already depends on what it is. I must also commend the promoters here, in this case, the Ministry of Justice, which adheres to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament so that this legal text has been referred to in the ordinary procedure. Unlike other ministries, and as we witness in this session. Namely, as soon as the P.Z.E. code is placed. Automatic law-making is required according to an emergency procedure. And, so this commendation is also in the function of that special team that the government has named, which is called the HITRORez, which has a connection, it means to break down all the rules and rely on those regulations that essentially bother citizens. While these others, in the name of the club, called that all of these laws refer to an emergency procedure to then force the Croatian Assembly to the HITRO BRZ, means to adopt an emergency procedure, and in many situations we do not know what we are bringing nor the simulations are made, and it is about the literal translation of the directive. It is also important for the Croatian Party's club of rights that this law creates a basis for communication between registering courts with public notaries, because it was well aware of the competence of public notaries and of the situation now in place in this area. Thus, it will strengthen and give legal assumptions that even on the one hand they break and various bureaucratic barriers present in Croatia and increase the efficiency of the registration itself in the court register. And that part is also important for all of us, meaning for all of those economic operators in Croatia that will be legally enabled or given the possibility, trust in the court register is strengthened. So this is the way and how laws should be proposed in the Croatian Parliament, but I say there is still one part of it, perhaps we should consider what and how with those who have obligations and owe to the state and at the same time want to start other companies because there are many such situations. So that's what we're pleading to be considered until the second reading. We have a situation where many start a company, enter a court register, bring it into a state of bankruptcy, bankruptcy and owe a lot of states according to various items, whether it's a matter of tax, whether it's a contribution to pension health insurance and then to prevent, in essence, from these obligations being made to the state, they go to start another company and thus also enable the creation of corruption and everything else. Therefore, when you are already working and when it is the first reading, we plead that this part too is well considered in order to actually achieve what is being preached and in the very proposal of the law. So, full confidence in the public books, this time it's about the court register and that the principle of public and public trust in the public books is essentially being fulfilled and that we know who we're dealing with if it's economic relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78620	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78621	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs! This is indeed one of the most important laws or amendments to the law because the court register is one of the most important institutions of the market economy. But what this law offers is another question. So, I advocate that the law be passed, to modernise the court register, to introduce technical possibilities, technological opportunities, so electronics and IT it's okay, but the law or public books, or the court register makes sense in a competition if the law declares full trust in the data contained in that register. This trust should be declared by the law that the State is materially responsible for incorrect data in public books or in registers. There is no such change in this bill. There is one proposal here that will further complicate the matter, which is that financial reports are entered in the court register. And for the accuracy of these financial reports, they will be eligible for interpretation, not even according to the statement of legal norm, of the administration, of legal entities to be supplied by financial reports. It's just creating as much data as possible without any responsibility. And what is the government's relationship to this law I'm about to show you and I think it's typical. The government and the promoter don't know what's changing. Here's why. In the light of my reading of the law, I immediately thought of how in Croatia legal practice, the legal theory predicts that lower rank, lower rank act can change the rank act. So, in the light of the law, despite some illogical things like the law so far has made it difficult and challenged to register as if any law would eliminate it simply because you have to sign in. But look at this legal nebulosis. Since the entry into force of '99. The years of the law have been changed five times. And now they state the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register of '96. Regulation amending and supplementing the Court Register Act 1/98. "The People's Newspaper." Now look. The next year, the government said in a new regulation: "By taking effect the '99 regulation. the year ceases to apply the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register of the "National Journal" No. 1/98.". Therefore, the Government does not really know what changes despite the lack of logic of the legal theory and the legal practice that a lower rank act cannot change the act of higher rank, so the regulation cannot change the law of the Government or the legislator did not even bother to verify whether those regulations were in force at all, let alone that the regulation is not the law and that there is no point in introducing at all amendments and additions to one law. She doesn't apply. The following regulation was adopted next year, the same legislator calling for it. A '98 regulation. the year under the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues by regulations, this Regulation expired on 31 March 1999. A year. Thus, the Government not only in reason but also in the normative part of Article 1 of this Law says in the Law on the Court Register of the "National Journal" No. 1/95, 57/96. and 1/98, that's a regulation, 30/99. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. They do not have legal power, do not produce legal effects and have to amend the law that is in the original. Therefore, it is only proof of how it relates to laws and compliance with the needs of the European Union but more importantly to life. What's the point? The point is to make it technically easier to access the register, but this will only allow incorrect or non-responsible data to be distributed in the Croatian market. That's not the point of that law. That's not the point of this law. There's another important issue, and legally, that the law treats property as real estate. So in the article, I think the 21st is asking the tax administration, the tax authorities, that for the subjects of the registry court, the entities on the market that have no property, ask for their removal. So the property here is treated as real estate, and the legal term for the property is rights and obligations. So someone would have to determine what the balance sheet of the legal entity is to be able to establish that it does not operate in the market. There are more such data, but also final and transitional provisions show in a good way the position of the Croatian judiciary and the Croatian legal system, as it says it will enter is not known when but when Croatia will become a member of the European Union. In other words, let the regulation stand, and we will apply it if necessary. This all shows the government's relationship to the legal system, the construction of the legal system, so it's more important to apply this HItroRez when the drafts are being prepared to comply with other legal acts in the hierarchy of legal acts and mutually the same rank, and then the HItroRez will not be necessary, and we will have legal certainty far greater than it is so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78622	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78623	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. An incorrect colleague pointed out that the promoter does not know what changes. By virtue of Article 1 of the Court Register Act, the "National Journal" No. 1/95, 57/96, 1/98, 30/99, 45/99 is cited. and 54/05. the exact amendments to this law. Furthermore, in Article 21(1), the colleague merely quoted paragraph 1, where paragraph 2 is said: "The register will, under its official duty, carry out the process of eradicating the company if three years of succession do not comply with the legal obligation to hand over all annual financial reports and not deliver them to the court within 6 months after the court has received and initiated the erasure procedure, and the company does not, within that time, likely to have property." So you need to read the whole article, then it really makes sense, and that's exactly the right provision. Financial reports very well and so to be continued.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78624	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78625	Your Honor, Mr. President. My dear colleague, you have essentially raised the question on which the position of the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure should be taken. These are the situations where the laws in force are amended by regulations with legal force. Which means legally speaking, it is not a lower-level regulation as a regulation, for example, a sublaw of the Government or a decision or other sublaw. It is a regulation with a legal force, meaning it is incursed into the law and in some cases even the principles of this law are changed. But it is questionable from that point of view how and to state it in the law itself if it means two or three regulations with legal powers where it has been affected by the matter of this law, whether or not the regulation is valid for a year, whether it enters the content of the novel as such. It would be legal for me not to come in, because it was worth a year. But I'm saying that such legal situations should obviously be discussed because as we go on, it's obvious that there are a lot of wandering and legal issues from the government's point of view, and we also see here when we speak ourselves in the Croatian Parliament, so it would be good to hold one thematic session of many of these situations that we agreed on in the Committee on Law, but unfortunately we never raised that question, such as regulations with legal force, such as other things that need to be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78626	Replication response, Agent Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78627	Dear counterpart Kovacevic, let us release the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. This is about regulations whose value is legally eliminated, non-existent, ex-lege is non-existent, and with the saying of the Government of the Republic itself has abolished its regulation. So we can't change the non-existent legal act, and when the non-existent legal act ceases to exist by saying or ex-legis, then it's worth something that was before or that was passed as a law. There is therefore no dispute here that legal acts which do not have legal effect and which ex-legisla have ceased to operate. Therefore, we can ask the Committee to give a stronger interpretation of the government's future behaviour, and that it cannot change the law and that it has no power to amend the law, it has the right to regulate temporary relations in the area of the Parliament, but only as long as this authorisation takes place. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78628	Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78629	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The register is a public book that is very important indeed in the economic business of legal entities, because it is a public book that is registered by all those entities that the law has stated that there is an obligation to enroll them from companies, companies with limited responsibility, public companies, command companies, cooperatives and other entities. What is particularly important on the day of entry into that register is the acquisition of the legal personality, the legal subjectivity of those entities. These entities, after being registered in the register, can only then acquire legal obligations and rights. So we see the importance of this register as a public book. It's de facto translated as a birth certificate. So by enrolling some company begins to exist, it can only then perform on the market. If we do a little comparatively and look at it and go back, say, ten and 15 years, we'll see that our register was actually a big weight and a big problem in the lives of all of our subjects. Let's just remember all the crowds we had in the register of a commercial court where they mailed those proposals to register company compliance with the Company Act. We really had a very messy situation where we had companies that were enrolled until then. We had a lot of start-up companies that people in our country started without a big need to actually do business with them. They were founded for some reason of security that if I came into some position that I had founded a company. After that they appeared in the practice of public notebooks, the Law on Commercial Companies appeared. It is time for all these companies to comply with the Commercial Society Act, and in a few days, all these many thousands have stumbled onto the Register of Commercial Courts and tried to comply. After that, there was another additional deadline to bring the underlying capital into line. It was also an additional burden and burden on those registration courts. However, as the situation is normalised everywhere and here there has been one normalisation and today it is a practice in the Republic of Croatia to set up companies when it is really necessary. Then when their founders really do intend to do something with these companies. And so today, even less traffic on the registers of commercial courts is important, less traffic. So it's not this much pressure on the subjects to start up and that's why the situation is so much better. However, what do I think is crucial to this Law? Regardless of all that, the nomotechnical things spoken of by the esteemed colleague Leko, whether there should be a regulation in the transitional provisions, should be law. That until the second reading, indeed, needs to be checked whether any regulation is in force as indicated here. But what I would say is very important is this provision, which is that for the first time in a single procedure, it opens up the possibility of launching the procedure by electronic means. That's, I'd say, a holiday for the subjects on our market today. Because let's remember what it was like to start a company, what it was like to change the headquarters of a company. You come to the public notebook, you do the paperwork, you come to the trading register, you wait for them to receive you, you hand over the paperwork, you wait for it to be resolved. Those were really problems. Or when the company was founded. You come, first take out the documents at one address, second address, third address, then again to the notebook, again to the register of the trade court and pass the time, you lose days and days. And today the situation is like this, we have the HITRO.HR project, we come to one place, we get the documentation we need. We come to a public notary that does everything we need to do and only one click on the "enter" button to sign up with all the documents is on the register of the competent commercial court. So we don't lose the pace, we don't waste time. That's what's important and that's kind of what seems to me to be the direction in which our entire public administration should go. To open up this electronic communication, that citizens can have their rights, interests with the competent state authorities in this way. And so we see that these registers of ours that were a big and big problem because they were naturally overloaded by their guilt, but they were overloaded and it was hard to work under these conditions. Today, in some ways, they become the harbingers of what will happen in the future. This is, in any case, very, very significant to me and all of these other provisions that are also in this Law, not many, but which mean compliance with European Union legislation, which means applying directly this Directive of the European Parliament of 2003, are to be welcomed. Registers of a commercial court are extremely important because today, if you enter any business through a register, you know exactly who you're dealing with through reconnaissance. What's in it? The name of a company is entered, its headquarters is entered, who are members of the administration, who are the other persons authorised to enter, what is their underlying capital. And now especially important, their financial reports are also being published. That's very important. That means someone who participates in business with someone that can be informed of the financial, means the indicators of the other side on which he operates. So I think that this Law amending the Law on the Court Register is indeed one big, big step in communicating our citizens with state bodies. It's something that exists in Austria, it's something that must actually be directional and in other court proceedings because if we open that electronic communication we're actually by that question, we've solved the issue of delivery. The issue of delivery in court proceedings today is not only making it difficult, not only is it burdening court proceedings but it is also extremely expensive. And this is one way of actually dealing with it in the future. My colleague Leko said something that the state would have to guarantee the accuracy and regularity of the data that are listed here in the court register. I completely agree with my colleague Lek, but I disagree in that section that this should be written in this Law. This simply stems from general responsibilities, from general provisions governing the issue of liability for the damages of the Republic of Croatia and other state bodies. Namely, if any false information is published, and this information is published as a result of some negligence or as a result of the lack of awareness of the state body or of that official in the court register, the Republic of Croatia will have to be liable for damages under the general rules on liability for damages. So I mean, it's clear to say that these data must be true. But the incident situation, unfortunately, can always happen. And if that happens then it will be necessary to determine why she came. Whether it's the guilt of the state body, whether it's someone else's or someone else's fault. It is known that public notebooks also have responsibilities, but they are being secured for their responsibility with competent insurance companies because he can't know that tomorrow someone will enter his notary office, that they will forge his identity card, he can't verify it. They'll make a wrong act, cause damage, and, of course, someone has to answer for that damage. In that case, it will answer, not even a notary if it is proven not to be guilty, but that damage will be covered by its insurance company. So I think this is a very significant law, a very important law, because for the first time it introduces electronic communication of entities with competent state authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78630	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78631	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Bosnjakovic. For the sole purpose of public service, so as not to deceive the public of Croatia and those who are not legal professionals. The laws governing public books and public registers should explicitly state responsibility for the truthfulness of the data. So this Parliament has passed two laws that exclude the responsibility of the state to, say, register, court register and this register. So responsibility, the state's material responsibility has been excluded, has been delayed twice in this House, and by general rules it always fits, but here it is excluded. Under the general rules, it can't be ruled out, it would simply be a society that doesn't regulate relationships and cases that happen in life, and then it would be a cowboy society. It is important here to establish that the state corresponds materially to its public books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78632	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78633	This is not about excluding responsibility, this is about the fact that this question is not explicitly written, that the state is responding, but that does not mean that the state is not responding because there are general provisions actually responsible for the damages applied in a potentially harmful event related to this, so I don't think I have anything against a provision that would be written to make it clearer, but such a provision does not in principle introduce responsibilities, because the state is in principle responsible under general rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78634	Dear Representative Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78635	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have a very important law before us, the Law on the Court Register, which firstly wishes to bring our legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. It is also about the Law that will allow for the transition in a modern way of carrying out documents and data in the court register and the adoption of this Act that everyone will be able to carry out without proof of any legal interest an insight into the correctness and registers, by means of a computer which will certainly speed up the proceedings before this court and reduce all the crowds we had before those courts. Otherwise, the Court Register Act was passed in '95. In 2005, on several occasions, it has been changed, significant changes were made in 2005 when these changes also removed some shortcomings such as the time needed to collect the documents needed for enrollment, because the Law actually contained provisions that made it difficult or slowed down the enrolment, as well as the insufficient regulation of individual institutes and documents so that, for example, the winding-up procedure was not fully regulated. These changes and additions certainly have increased efficiency, are equated in the rights and obligations of domestic and foreign business entities, reduced costs, and made it possible to implement the HItro project. However, the practice also requires further amendments and additions to this Act, first of all with the harmonisation of the European Union, and in particular with the provisions of the first Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, and has joined these new amendments to the Bill which otherwise contains 28 articles and these amendments have been intervened in several elements in this Act, I will mention only some. This Law stipulates that the current management of the main book of data in electronic form provides for the conduct and operation of documents which are subject to registration, will also be conducted in electronic form and thus will allow all legal entities without proof of legal interest to have insight into these documents. The possibility is also created, i.e. the legal basis for the communication of the Register Court with public notaries, through an electronic connection that will certainly speed up the registration process, thus achieving the basic principle of the Court of Justice. The exchange of documents by electronic means will in fact avoid that phase of physical delivery of applications, thus reducing the possibility of misuse of documents and also contributing to the systematicity of the storage of documents themselves. What is very important is that this Law also introduces the obligation of annual financial reports to the court register, and this is very important for the achievement of the principle of transparency of registration and in this way will enable all legal entities to come in a relatively good way to data on entities of entry into the court register with which they enter the legal relationship. It seems to be good that the amended article 70 is. Thus far, the courts have not had the possibility of mechanisms and powers to verify and compare the business of certain entities, so this article has been amended in a way that the courts will now be able to, given that the introduction of the information system is also being monitored. And what remains of this Law is the introduction of the possibility to register both European companies and European economic interest groups in accordance with the provisions of the Council of the European Union, but they will be delayed until Croatia enters the European Union by applying these provisions. And what I think is good at the end is that it is a good thing that a delay in the application of those provisions relating to a lot of the correctness in electronic form is proposed, because by 2009, the registration courts and the other registration entities will be able to enable them to apply these provisions. And in the end, I believe that these changes will achieve greater security, transparency in economic and legal transport, and that this law, I believe, and with observations, will probably improve further by the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78636	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78637	Thank you, Mr. President. I would very briefly join those who assess that when this law is adopted in the final version, one new page will start to say so not only in the judiciary but in the economy at all because this is not only a legal problem, this is a big gain and for the economy at all because it does not only get at speed and it also gets at a great reduction in costs that the economy has so far had, since many groups of people have had to walk with documents, so all this took a lot more cost and time, this will be a material relief. And something else is very important, and this is that all of Croatia will be imported into one unique system because we have to remember when we recently talked about the bankruptcy law that we had a situation of integrity of bankruptcy managers who had several cases in one court, on the other so much more. So the courts didn't exchange information, they didn't exchange information. There could have been overlapping. In this case, it is avoided and in one place you will see what anyone does in Croatia in total. Therefore, the costs related to the publication of financial annual reports as an obligation are also reduced, as this is considered to be the case when it is published in the Court Register that it is also a public publication. So it doesn't have to be her, me, as far as I'm concerned, if I get it right, another one in public because this is considered a public announcement. I would have been taught experiences in the economy from which I came into politics, too, and I might have been somewhat suspicious of those articles that allow direct communication of public notary offices and courts and possibilities of intervention in registration, and therefore, I say data accuracy assurance. I accept what my colleague Bosnjakovic said that there are general rules, a general responsibility to say so, that there are some special laws but they are all worth when things have happened and when irreparable damages have occurred. You have a case of people stealing or alienating someone's ID card, changing their image, putting theirs, I'm not sure that the notebooks are first in a position to reveal such things, whether they're educated enough, and I don't know if they'd have enough time, because in this part of it, I expect that this speed will not go to the expense of accuracy, therefore, the data that someone is substituting a trade society and that this data will therefore not cause someone under someone else's name to damage the company by taking goods on an existing address that you can't possibly catch it, because I know that it would require that every public notary has probably some private detective who would then investigate that data. But I also think that maybe by the second reading, you should think about installing one fuse where at least it would be said that you should pay particular attention to the accuracy of those data from which one logs. And I'd still look back at article 21. That's right. And I don't know why the legislator is here, in fact, we're actually proposing so much bene laureate towards those who don't meet their legal obligations. So I think that entrepreneurs are given a three-year deadline not to submit financial reports consecutively. On the one hand, we have this speed, therefore, of the electronic pathway of starting businesses, of tracking results, and then we give someone the opportunity not to submit financial reports for 3 years. So, I think it's too long. I ask that it be considered a reduction in which these companies, which may not be delivering reports again to their creditors or their employees, are not carrying out their duties without control, I suggest that it be considered that this deadline should be reduced in order to protect both the employees and the creditors who are there as possible damages. Here, I support these changes, and as far as these provisions apply to future membership times, I don't think we should bother them because every member of the European Union has the automatic application of these laws. She had them or didn't have them in her legislation, so we don't have to break our heads. When we are a member, we will automatically have to apply the provisions in our Croatian legislation, and I support that there have been several amendments to this legislation when the text is adopted to issue a consolidated text of the entire law, that people do not have to seek through several "National Journals" and that they have one unique, modern law which, in my opinion, will allow not only the development of activities but also significant savings in the economy in particular and in other activities. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78638	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanović!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78639	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Well, at the outset, I'd like to point out in my opinion the essential two things, of course, by joining colleagues who absolutely supported this bill. I believe that this will answer the question of what has actually been achieved by so far changing and supplementing this law. Namely, the Court Register in terms of its activities and responsibilities at this point, so today, in that segment of the judiciary, certainly has three characteristics. The first one is almost complete up-to-date. Second, the reduction in the duration of enrolment to the minimum possible extent and the practical absence of any outstanding items. Therefore, an area of justice within the Court Register and registration in the Court Register, which is absolutely in this affirmative sense, should be sought to make these effects actually happen in the primary segments of the judiciary. And the second thing that should be highlighted absolutely in terms of the implementation of the principle of registration in the Court Register is also the principle of transparency and efficiency and the principle of urgency of enrolment. Therefore, the implementation of this law through these principles reduces or completely removes any possibility of corrupting the participants in the procedure of enrolment and management of the Court Register. Therefore, if something is legally designed in a clear, transparent, transparent way, if it is designed in a way that these entries or rights which people and legal and natural persons are precisely taking place in the manner provided for by this law, then absolutely in the process of that procedure or process in terms of the exercise of the right and obligations of natural and legal persons, or those corrupt elements from such prescribed or prescribed registration of entities in the Court Register. Furthermore, the proposed law will not only allow for further increase in the efficiency of the registration in the Court Register but also have additional positive effects in terms of the application of this law or regulations, and I also find equalisation in the rights and obligations of domestic and foreign legal and natural persons. Furthermore, reducing the costs of enrolment, then simplifying and speeding up the enrolment itself but also enabling, absolutely allowing implementation in that part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia project, so, HItro.HR. It is also prescribed to better protect the authenticity of the document by removing or disabling it in a prescribed way or by proposing the prescribed solutions to the counterfeiting of the documents themselves. In addition to the current management of the main data book in electronic form of the proposed legislative solution, the conduct and publication of documents which are subject to the law with the application for registration in the Court Register shall be introduced, of course, in electronic form. Therefore, without proving legal interest, everyone will be able to make an insight into the documents and data not only through direct insights into the Credentials Collection but also through a simple and quick examination of the computer itself. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the creation of a legal basis for the communication of registration courts with public notebooks by electronic means, thereby contributing in a special way to the security of economic and legal transport. And I absolutely agree with all those colleagues who, in this segment, stress these legal solutions the need for public notaries to register in this process, to highlight their responsibility. Their responsibility is indeed great, and the public notebooks are now not only as entities in the registration process but also as, I would dare say so, as the most responsible in terms of promoting the truthfulness of the data. These entities and their responsibility are absolutely certainly necessary, it is necessary to work out, since it is also about first reading, to raise to one perhaps higher level because their responsibility in terms of adhesion is essential regardless of whether it is an electronic form or another, that is to say, the truthfulness of the data that goes to the court register. Indeed, the European Union's standards are reached to correct everything, all data from economic operators are kept and available in one place with an annual obligation to deliver and financial reports in the court register itself. In conclusion, and despite the fact that this regulation is adopted among other things and in order to bring our rules in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, this law will undoubtedly represent the foothold of a modern, fast and efficient system of justice, namely the segment of the public administration and, in that sense, it should absolutely be supported from all aspects. And let me look back at some of the remarks that we could hear in today's debate and they were or were the government type or the Resort Ministry doesn't know what's changing? In particular, there was a review of regulations with legal force. I think that it is necessary to intervene in a way that, in the light of the law itself, the proposer has therefore been resolutely the Ministry or the Government has also listed the laws and regulations with the legal force in terms of a legislative delegation that regulated this matter during a certain period of time and we cannot even consider this proposal in this context as well as its solutions in such a way that the regulations have been amended by some legislative provisions, or bring this into line that the proposer, with concrete legislative proposals, has been even taking into account some, some of the solutions that have been defined or regulated within a certain time period of time by regulations with legal force. Accordingly, I think that one, this is one of the rules that should have our absolute support because it really introduces new standards, I would dare to say European standards in one area or in one segment of our judiciary that will absolutely contribute to efficiency and shifts in that positive better sense when it comes to enrolment in the court register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78640	Thank you. Final review by Justice Minister Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78641	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here at the end of this debate I would like to thank all of you who have almost fully supported the adoption of this Law and have shown one assessment that, to make these amendments and complement significant progress in bringing Croatia's legislation into line with EU legislation, and also as a further contribution to security and speed in economic law. The proposal will consider all the observations made and, in this context, develop an improved final, final proposal. These remarks generally go in two directions, and this is the first significant observation of the nomotechnical nature where here I think that in part of the reasoning it does not bother to call and to the currently invalid, invalid regulations because of the fact of the reasoning and the history, and we will discuss whether, nomotechnically, whether or not in the very text of the law itself and certainly one significant question which has put responsibility for the accuracy of the data in the court register. Of course, there are general rules on the responsibility of the state to work, to work unlawfully and recklessly, but the question is then, and to what extent, responsibility can arise in the case of a potential forgery which is then a criminal offence accompanied by documents or fraud, as well as responsibility for the accuracy of financial reports which, financial regulations regulate the truthfulness and accountability of the truthfulness, and the purpose of financial reports in the register is exclusively their transparency and accessibility in one place, for information on the economic operator with which it is intended to conclude the business. But certainly this is an extremely important part of this law and the proposer will further consider this problem and propose it in the final proposal for a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78642	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Court Register Act. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's go vote. The result? With 102 votes in favour, 2 abstentions made to the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78645	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. The IDS certainly welcomes any step that promotes our society and our country, so the IDS will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a programme relating to the Community Framework Strategy on Gender Equality. But we're afraid this proposal is just for the sake of form and that the content doesn't really exist. First, the law bears only the P.Z., and since this is a proposal of international importance, it should surely bear the P.Z.E. mark. to show that we really mean it. As a second element and indicator of our seriousness, we show it in paragraph 4 of the introductory section on the evaluation of the resources necessary for the implementation of the law, where it is said that participation in the European Community programme relating to the Community's gender equality strategy, the Republic of Croatia will have to pay a financial contribution to the general budget of the European Union of 30 000 euros in 2006. It is interesting, however, that the part that will be co-financed is from the pre-accession PHARE programme of 25 thousand, while only the amount of 5000 euros is secured in the state budget for 2006 at the position of the Office for Gender Equality. We in the IDS believe that these funds are not enough because there are many problems and that 30 000 euros cannot be achieved much about gender equality except that civil servants will have the means for their travels provided, and as we can see for what the funds in the opening section are provided for. So, to support the organisation of the seminar, to mobilise key actors. Second, participation in the database, and third coverage of administrative costs related to the participation of representatives or representatives from Croatia as observers. There's been a lot of talk this year and we've discussed gender equality a lot. We had the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, and in the last session we also had a national policy to promote gender equality. What has been crystallized from these discussions you know very well, which is that institutions do not function in a way that contributes to the successful development of gender equality. Although police have received protocol on the treatment of domestic violence, the judiciary has different standards compared to women and men. We had an example of Anna Magash and Tom Suplan. The D.A., that's where I pulled the data that was related to their report, where you can see exactly how many cases they have and that they're practically losing confidence in the institutions. We had 3565 cases in 2005, and the items were transferred from 2004. The analysis shows that out of these 3564 are items ranging from individual complaints to media reviews, an election of action plans. So, it's all been put up as if it were complaints, and the reality is that the real objects are 174. So, only 4.8% of what the D.A. did. As far as the police are concerned, I last set an example in Opatija where a woman has a judicial verdict that her husband can't get near her. She called the police, the police came and said they couldn't do anything about it, but to sue him again even though he had a valid solution. Thus, how to protect yourself is difficult to say at this time even though there are legal regulations. There is a need to create a climate of trust in institutions from the police through the judiciary, the prosecutor's office for gender equality, and that is why we believe that more money is needed for this problem because there is a problem at every turn. I'm not even going to open up the subject of job inequality, workplace abuse. Because women really need to be protected at work. I hope there will still be additional funds to implement these actions, and in that part you have the support of the IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78646	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78647	Dear Mr. President, I'm actually going to say about something that I haven't had a chance to say for the last time because you interrupted me by assuming I'm going to talk about a whole third thing. I think gender equality or sexual equality is one of the key and reasonable parts of this government's policy. However, there are a lot of hypocrisis in this area and in this respect I would draw the attention of the State Secretary and those people who will implement or apply this reminder of understanding to several paradoxes. I cite this as an example where this hypocrisis is caused by absurd proportions. It is about the “National” weekly, which has been part of its editorial policy in the last five, six years, focusing on the decisive fight against violence against women and this is a fantastic orientation and this weekly is very responsible for the media coverage of the Ljubomir Chučić case and in the last few numbers this topic has been devoted to eight pages. Violence against women, or so on. The alleged violence against women in the Vojkovic case has devoted 7 pages. At the same time, as a leading columnist, this weekly has a Lucky Jordan who has proven a bully to women. And we have such a hypocrisis in different areas. So, the man beat up his own wife in the presence of a little boy who was in a big panic and tried to chase at him with a knife. You have a case of violence against women and a very vicious type on Croatian television. We have a case of single mother Ozana Basic who has been the subject of systematic harassment for several years on state television and simply there is no technology for this woman to fight for her rights. You must know that in Croatian history, increasingly few smarter women, especially very successful women, intelligent and educated women, had tragic fates. So if you look at the last 200 years of being a woman educated, smart and successful are recommendations for intense harassment, accidents, persecution, hospitalization and hanging as a witch. I, on several occasions, tried to initiate this procedure on our committee, on the board, on the parent board of information, information and media. And I'm using this particular occasion because I assume this is being transmitted to the Croatian public as well. I feel uncomfortable about Ozana Basic, who is a single mother, one of the few educated women in the program, that she is practically not only exposed to a systematic mobing, but the subject I would almost say is a rematch of mediocrity. When I speak, I use the term "mediocreity" to mean the literal use of that word, from middle schoolers, people who have medium professional equipment, who are similar to any authority and who allow us to have an educated woman who is very handsome and smart exist in that area. I, therefore, appeal to you by the State Secretary for this reminder of understanding asked you to do more in this area to ensure that this hypocritical way of caring for the equality of women with men leads to one situation where people will not at one level advocate gender equality, and on the other, to do their utmost to make these women discriminate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78648	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78649	Your Honor, Mr. President. So just the cover of what counterpart Letica Ozrena Bašić said also addressed many other parliamentary representatives, and we at the Croatian Party of Rights club. And namely, the whole problem about Ozrena Basic and 70 and some of the people came from the fact that they came up somewhere last year at this time when we were reviewing the report on the work of the Croatian Radio Television Program Council signed a petition that they wanted to point out situations and phenomena that are illegal, which are not good and unfortunately happened what happened to them was that they were the subject of shagging, the subject of mobbing on, and therefore I also join my colleague Letica. I call on you, Mr. President, and also the Secretary of State and the Government not to allow this kind of relationship of leadership of the Croatian Radio Television towards the signatories of the petition, although the Programme Council has said that they cannot do what they have signed that petition to come to this part that they are chicanated, that they cannot get seats, although they are all highly educated, journalists in the fullest sense of the word. I therefore join my colleague Letica and appeal to those responsible for both the Government, the Ministry of Culture and the Croatian Television leadership to finally solve these problems, that this does not happen to a single mother and others who were signatories to the petition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78650	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78651	So it doesn't work out. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Kovacevic for the excellent situation in other public media. I will personally initiate the procedure of confiscation of the RTL concession for the discrimination of about 200 people, chicing, layoffs and various other ways of using the concession contract. And among these women, 200 people who have been fired from RTL are around 70% of women. So as we focus our attention on one case from that sink or the underworld of human souls, we discover new cases. And that RTL case will deserve the attention of this High House based on a play that Mr. President may already be directed to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78652	Thank you. State Secretary Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78653	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Since there have been several concrete issues related to this content of this reminder of understanding on this Community programme just for the sake of clarity here are a few clarifications. When it comes to the needs of the State budget, then the implementation of this law is a matter of membership of this programme, so how much does the Republic of Croatia cost to participate in the membership of this programme. In total, the membership fee is 30,000 euros, and the Croatian budget will be financed directly from what was approved for 2006 by 5,000 euros. So that in no way is just the total amount of membership fee, it is not the total amount of government, or how much we stand out for this policy, thus promoting gender equality in Croatia. Why such a relationship? Why the 5,000 euros this year for this programme? It was precisely because, in principle, it was an agreement with the European Commission that in those programmes in which Croatia participates for the first time, and these are actually the first time this year Croatia has the opportunity to participate in community programmes to finance most of these costs in front of the access programmes in this case from the PHARE programme. Furthermore, you will see when the next time this programme comes before the Croatian Parliament this relationship in, therefore, the ratio of funding from the state budget directly and the relationship from these funds will be different. So, here's why out of 30,000 euros, the state budget directly pays 5,000 euros. As for this, therefore, which can be financed within this programme, it is simply defined by this Memorandum of Understanding on, so the program defines what can be financed. I'd just like to say as a piece of information that funding was going on, or what in order of size was the most outsourced in this programme so far. So most of the money went to strengthen institutions, somewhere around half the amount. Quite a significant amount, about 40% to raise public awareness, and that third to research and analysis. And I believe that's where these discussions were going that we've just heard. So precisely on this second part, and this is raising public awareness is obviously to be spent more in Croatia. However, how much of Croatia will participate in this programme depends on the institutions to apply to European Community programmes in this segment. And certainly if there are good programmes that will certainly be in competition, then face similar programmes from all 25 member states and therefore two accession countries and another candidate. Of course, Croatia can withdraw more funds with good programmes. And in conclusion, I would like to say that it is certainly on the trail of this that in Croatia we should certainly still be working on this plan. And this programme of the community will certainly contribute to the awareness-raising in Croatia of this gender-related representation of the same in political life, against discrimination against women in public and therefore both in the workplace and in the family, etc. So certainly this programme is one of the important steps for us in the Republic of Croatia on this plan, and certainly also in the context of the adjustment for membership in the European Union, it will be an extremely important step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78654	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a programme relating to the Community framework strategy on gender equality. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 103 votes in favour, one abstention of the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78657	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is a proposal for an extremely important law that has been working on for a long time, a law that belongs to a group of laws that harmonize our legislation with the acquis, that is, the legislation of the European Union. But first of all, I think it is important to highlight when we talk about this Investment Encouragement Act, to bring it into line with the real needs and expectations of Croatia when it comes to investing both foreign and domestic investors. We all know very well that when we look at investments in Croatia for the past ten, 12 years, to record when we look at the absolute amount of these investments as significant figures. For the period from 93rd to this year, we can conclude that more than 12.5 billion euros have been invested in Croatia, mostly from the European Union countries, Austria, Germany, the United States. When we also look at investments per capita compared to all other transition countries, then we also take a high 4th place with 2 000 500 euros. So these are indicators that might tell us that we should be satisfied with the investments. But what is certain is that Croatia lacks investments primarily in the production of investments that carry new technologies, which carry and deliver products with and with services with higher added value, and that is what this law wanted to achieve and I believe it was achieved by this law. Also, if we take into account the period last year and this year and without the new law we have succeeded, the government has succeeded and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as a resolute ministry to reverse the picture of investment in Croatia. We have turned the trend from investment in the trade sector, from investments in other sectors which are therefore not productive, we have managed to achieve the largest number of investments in the exactly production of greenfield investments and that is what can satisfy us, but I repeat, it was necessary and it is necessary not only to bring this law into line with the acquis of the European Union but to bring it into line with our expectations and wishes, knowing how important both sides and domestic investments are when it comes to the economic development of Croatia. What is important to say for this law, so it is fully in line with all the directives and guidelines of the European Union, it has received a coherent and positive opinion from all relevant agencies, institutions of the state, above all it is in line with the State Aid Act, so it has to say green light and from the European Commission as a whole this text of the law and from the Competition Protection Agency, so of all those who must in some way give their consent and should give their word on such a law. What is and what is the gravity of this law? First of all, this law regulates and regulates the approval of incentive measures, tax, customs benefits and is directed, by the basis of this law, according to the production and processing activities of innovative activities and business support activities, i.e. more value-added activities, and that is one of the fundamental objectives of this new law. What is therefore important to be highlighted as a change from the existing law, since the promotion of investment in this law, is that the incentive measures for investment are also made possible by existing companies as opposed to the applicable law which therefore encourages only newly established companies. The minimum amount of investment from which incentive measures are granted is also reduced, from the current 4 million kuna to 2 million kuna. Unlike the existing Investment Encouragement Act, which allows four types of incentive measures, the new law allows a total of six types of incentive measures. These are tax benefits, these are customs benefits, support for the eligible costs of opening new jobs related to investment. These are support for the eligible costs of training related to investment, incentive measures for the establishment and development of technological and innovation centres and strategic activities of business support and incentive measures for major investment projects, therefore these are investment projects of significant economic interest. Special attention is given in this law to the promotion of employment, i.e. the creation of new jobs on vocational education or training of employees. This law therefore provides for the existing law to encourage the creation of new jobs which has not yet been operational, and this law provides for and amends this model of encouraging employment, i.e. the creation of new jobs or professional education and training, in a way that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship directly takes over in its budget positions the jobs of encouraging employment, i.e. the creation of new jobs. So the funds are now foreseen in the budget at the position of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. It is particularly important to point out that in this law it also took the criterion of a very important element that we have today, a fact that we have in Croatia today, which is a great variety, the development of certain parts of Croatia. So it is not, we all know this well, equal economic development of one area of Zagreb, northwestern Croatia, Istria, such as the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and some others. And as a criterion that is only possible to take and statistically monitor it is the unemployment rate and this is the criterion on which different incentives for employment were provided for this law, the creation of new jobs. They were divided into three groups of counties in Croatia, those with a 10% unemployment rate, incentives for support compared to the cost of job creation is up to a thousand and 500 euros for them, from 10 to 20% to 2,000 euros, above 20% is up to 3,000 euros. So different incentives for new jobs under this law are foreseen depending on where the investment is coming from. It is not the same and I think that we will agree on it, it is not the same though every investment is important for Croatia, but in any case, I think it is important and important to encourage a stronger investment cycle in undeveloped parts of Croatia, in Vukovar-Srijem County, rather than what is happening and the logic of business interest in the area, for example, Zagreb. What is needed here, too, to stress is that we are introducing a new category of incentives related to large investment projects. These are therefore projects of particular economic interest in areas where the registered unemployment rate is over 20%. What do major investment projects mean? This, therefore, is an investment in long-term assets of at least 15m euros, the creation of at least 100 new jobs. This means building a new factory, starting a whole new economic activity, developing new technologies, so big, strong projects. For such large projects, the measures mentioned so far are also approved for special incentives, grants and for the cost of building a new factory or buying new machines up to a maximum of 5% of the cost. But the maximum amount of that support is limited and it can amount to a maximum of 1m euros. For the cost of building infrastructure facilities or infrastructure connections up to a maximum of 5% of these costs, but still a maximum amount of up to half a million euros is limited. What is also important to say is that it is new in this Act, which encourages funds for the creation of new jobs that I have mentioned moving from a thousand and 500 euros to up to 3,000 euros, depending on the level of unemployment in a particular county, that these funds and increase depending on the type, of the activity to which the investment relates. I said, this law can no longer give rise to incentives for all activities such as this now but only for manufacturing and processing activities, technological development of activities and strategic business support activities. And that's why these incentives for a new job opening are increasing, depending on what activity, business activity is at stake. If the strategic activity of business support is at stake, 25% are higher incentives for a new job. And if this is about technological and developmental innovation centres, then 50% of the support for each new opening job is also increased for this investment. Which means that maximum support in such a case can also amount to 4 and a half thousand euros. This is what I think is important to highlight because it is clear that this law expresses the interest and interest of the development of the Croatian economy precisely through an increase in the production capacity that we have in the country, through an increase in the capital equipment of work, through the modernisation of the improvement of business and also by this law it is clear that the government's commitment to not only enable the development of those areas of Croatia that have achieved good economic development rates so far, but rather want to develop Croatia in all parts. We want to encourage investment in those areas which are lagging behind in their economic development and which, I think, are important and important to define clearly and in some way concrete such measures and encourage investors to make it easier and earlier to decide to invest in these areas. There have been discussions or in the media of some political parties that have also mentioned the Investment Encouragement Agency and possibly its role in this law. I think the role of the Investment Encouragement Agency here is quite clearly defined. The Agency is not the one, the Ministry as part of the Government is the one who approves, therefore, and implements that procedure of approving incentive measures, but in any case the Agency is clearly and precisely established by law, its role, its tasks, other than promotion and promotional activities, the possibility of investment in Croatia throughout all those countries and areas where we expect investors from. The Agency is also tasked with monitoring every potential investor in Croatia, working with it to fill out the forms. So lead the whole process to the part where a concrete decision is made in the ministry. What I want, in the end, in particular, to point out that this law provides for sanctions and measures, so punishment for those who abuse this law. To a million kunas of punishment for such cases. And what's also important, therefore, is the obligation to keep and the jobs for which the support is achieved from everything that is related to the investment, in order to keep the incentives of all those under the law is up to 5 years. So we wanted to be certain in some way, and if in those five years, therefore, the number of newly-opened jobs is reduced on the basis of which the incentive is achieved, if, therefore, changes in essential elements based on which the investor has received incentive funds, then he will be obliged to return those funds and lose the incentive measures. Here, the shortest of these laws. I think it's the law we've really been waiting for for for a long time. It has worked very hard, there have been a lot of consultations within the European Commission as well. There have been a lot of consultations here with all the state bodies in Croatia. We wanted, I repeat, to make a law that will meet Croatia's interests and needs when it comes to economic development and investment promotion, whether domestic or foreign, in all areas of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78658	Thank you. The committees? Economy, development and reconstruction, European integration? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78659	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, It's understandable that any such law is welcome. What is certainly good in this law is that there is no distinction between domestic and foreign investors. It is true, we have had a similar law so far, but if he believes this argument, he has not given the expected results because only 42 companies in the Republic of Croatia have taken advantage of encouraging measures. And this particular information may say that something else, far more important than themselves, is under quotes, encouraging measures, or something else is important that is happening in this country and does not contribute to the stronger economic swing of the Republic of Croatia. So the measures to encourage should absolutely be welcomed, but what is then holding back from the other side of the relevant investment in the Republic of Croatia that cannot happen to us. Yesterday, I read in a newspaper that the trade between Romania and Italy exceeded 10 billion euros. I simply could not believe this information, although they have five times more inhabitants than the Republic of Croatia, although by nothing else I cannot compete with the Republic of Croatia because we are not Europe but America for them. But then again, on the other hand, they're going to Europe in 2007, and the question is, when are we going to go? But what it means now is it motivates this Italian investor to go there to invest. Are they motivated by their incentive measures? I say no. Okay, come on, customs policy is important, it's a profit tax, but it's not crucial for coming in. True, the labour price is three times lower in Romania than in Croatia, understandably that no one in Croatia can advocate it, but what is important then? Let's start with the price of real estate where something can be built, the climate I don't mean that meteorological but I mean that business, and unfortunately in Croatia there is an absolute anti-enterprise climate until elsewhere when someone comes with capital to invest, then it is welcome that the gentlemen's capital today determines when a country will be in the European Union, and there is simply no such capital in Croatia if we skip banks and trade chains. In Istria, for example, such production export factories may be 20 of which have taken over existing systems, in Zagreb at some 800, 850 thousand inhabitants may be 40, in Varazdin about 10, in the Primorje-Gorski County if there are 10, let in Zadar and that is around Croatia. So in us esteemed gentlemen, that anti-enterprise climate encourages and that every government when it comes to the position of the government starts politics as if the world starts from it, always comes from such positions as what happened before nothing happened, now we're going to change everything, and in fact the truth is a little different. What might be far more helpful to the Croatian economy than this Law is if we were to shorten these administrative deadlines, especially if we could coordinate local self-government and competent ministries in that part of the law, say adopting spatial plans, issuing local and construction permits, and what is a huge Croatian problem is that there is simply no consensus where to build, or where in this country to locate economic and not to talk about energy facilities. I guess we're the only country that can first and foremost agree with itself in this House, and then every so-called. The NGO, often favored by some media, can question all of this. I think the best example of Rokvu, a company or a company that is a well-known minister, is that I must note that he himself has engaged around a positive environment that investors from Denmark can expect if I am not mistaken in Croatia, in fact it is a company that is building a facility in Istria that will invest in the first phase of around 75 million euros and since the next 2008 de facto on that company will go somewhere around 0.5% of Croatian exports, and there since 2010 about 1% of Croatian exports. Now the question is, can Croatia be without industry? Of course he can't. Can we do it without exporting? He can't. And the paradox is to say the export of a Primorje-Gorski County is half as small as Istrian, and they have another 50 percent more inhabitants. Who, on the other hand, can claim that Croatia can only live on ecological agriculture and tourism? These are simply things that can't go anywhere in this form, Istra can't, so where will Croatia go? And in one word, we gentlemen must return to this country again to industry, and that is why this branch should be particularly encouraged. What is particularly interesting is this Article 1(3), where it is literally said that the incentive measures governed by this Act relate to project investments in a) manufacturing and processing economic activities, under b) in technology-development innovation centres, under c) strategic business support activities. So it can't happen, at least not like I'm interpreting the law to follow a trade, to follow a bank, but there's no tourism here. Since '91. To date, in 15 years' time on our Adriatic, gentlemen have not built five new hotels, five new hotels have not been built. I'm not talking about the reconstructions of existing hotels, I don't know one Millennium in Opatija, one called in Split "Lava", "Edena" in Rovinj, etc., I'm talking about new hotels. Is Croatia now to encourage, say, these investments? Absolutely. It's a low-accumulated branch and there's not as many investors as we'd like, and when it does, then we don't have anything defined or what's with military facilities by the sea, which is by selling or renting or with the right to build so-called. tourism land, what about camps, whose companies are from the state, what about companies that don't exist like one "Life", I don't know "Imperial" from Rab, "Adriatic" from Crikvenica, "Liburnia" from Opatija, etc., what about spatial plans and such? I mentioned "Rokvul" here on purpose, they clearly count in some way in this Act or the former one, it is certainly the biggest green field investment in the Republic of Croatia, but I argue that the biggest incentive for them would be not 1,000 euros per job, but if someone in the government took the obligation to build or modernise that road from the vehicles to Učka and then from Luposvo to Buzet, or the border crossing of Požena, because this road from 2008 will be 0.5% of Croatian exports, and from 2010. 1%. So one company will lose more than 1% of Croatian exports. What is finally when we talk about these laws and these encouraging measures with real estate prices in Croatia can only be followed by those who break the coast through apartments, i.e. banks and shopping centres. Article 7 in contrast to Article 7 of the minister, I believe that he is somewhat illogical, that where unemployment is up to 10% means following that newly opened job with a thousand euros, where unemployment is between 10 and 20% with 2,000 euros, where unemployment is over 20% to be monitored with, say, 3,000 euros. Well, there is, the argument stands, someone will say, so more should be encouraged to open jobs in one Vukovar than in Buzet where unemployment is 3%. But look, the investor doesn't matter now whether it's domestic or foreign, it's not now handled by the logic of a thousand or 3,000 euros per new job. But those gentlemen, who, for example, come and try to invest in one Poreč, I say that it's not whatever unemployment is about 10% or 8 doesn't matter, it's not in the same position as the one who comes and invests in one Slavonia. The price of a square meter in Poreč is at the beginning of 200 or more euros, in Slavonski Brod I don't know, I guess 10 times less. About the need for infrastructure and the level of wages and everything else that we don't talk about, and that's why I think the incentive should simply be the same for everyone around the Republic. It's not like this government proposal that the minister has previously explained has absolutely no logic in this part. But I think my explanation, too, follows the opportunities down in Istria, also holds water. For example, one Chabar from Gorsko kotar has a small unemployment guess but whoever wants to invest in this place in the beginning is certainly more difficult to invest money there than to come and invest in Slavonski Brod. In the case of large investment projects of significant economic interest, Article 12(1) takes into account the level and importance of investments for overall economic development and employment, even regional development, the development of areas where the unemployment rate is registered means above the national average, the development of the investment economic branch itself. It is then referred to in paragraph 2 as those investments in long-term assets of the promoters, where at least 15m euros are invested, subject to the opening of at least 100 jobs. So there's a certain amount of funds coming back, etc. I think that's absolutely fine, but once again I would like to appeal here to agree whether it is possible to launch a discussion at all, a debate on the re-industrialisation of Croatia, because once again I will say one who thinks he can only live on eco-agricultural and tourism in a great error. Up at the gallery are the boys and girls from Pula and they also know that in agriculture in Istria about 3% of people are engaged, not so much and that those who are all have a job elsewhere and in tourism somewhere around 15%. If 15 percent. So this other one is falling off on some other branches. We should also agree on this place to put it into coastal function. It's good that the government says I'm not selling state land, tourist land. We see that the City of Zagreb now intends to sell a complex of 30 and 60 hectares in the Savudrija. If we suggested that, we'd have to tear our skins off. And finally, we need to figure out where to place the energy facilities from LMG centrals, etc. And here on these issues should be absolutely unique. In my court, there is no doubt that this law is not accepted, but I am afraid that if we do not change the anti-enterprise climate in the Republic of Croatia, the results of this law will be about the same as the results of the 2001 law. All in all, it's good to start talking about it and to talk about it and there's no reason not to give support to the promoters of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78660	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78661	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! A Croatian party club suspects the planned achievement of the proposal for a law to encourage investment. We think it's one of the pre-election laws and they've mixed up the pots in the government. Why do we say that? There are many reasons why we say this and one of the most important things is that mixed pots are in terms because Croatia needs first of all to have a strategy for the economic development of Croatia. And on this strategy of economic development in Croatia, all laws should be based and this law should be based. Because Croatia has an economic development strategy? There isn't. As time goes on, it is becoming less and less likely to create a real economic development strategy that will have the right foundations, because the more and more sold out and capital things in Croatia when it comes to the issue of and the sale of HEP and this other system Croatia will not have the opportunity to put together a real strategy for economic development because it will have no meaning for the headquarters, the factors on which the economic development of Croatia can be based. It is clear that without the economic development of Croatia there is no opening of new jobs and without the economic development of Croatia there is no growth of GDP but the real growth of GDP which is based on us creating a new value. If that's the case, I'll just briefly illustrate to you with data that speak of a harsh reality, which is your situation that if it's an external responsibility, that's the external responsibility when citizens and the state's debts are taken into account, and all of them are over $50 billion, that's what interest and so on. The card debt and the analysts' forecasts are that the debt could grow in a few years and over 146 billion dollars. So this is about that very negative one trend that unfortunately can hit us. It's about GDP growth, it's about economic growth, but this GDP growth is based on economic analysts' estimates in Croatia is not based on creating a new value but is based on Croatia's debt and consumption. Therefore, this is not a real growth of GDP, which gives opportunity and a basis for Croatia's further development. The very fact that in the last 3 years, according to official data, only somewhere between 15 and 17 thousand jobs has unfortunately confirmed this situation is becoming more difficult and more difficult circumstances in order to address the issue of unemployment and to get the right basis for Croatia's economic development. In fact, the debt of citizens to banks in Croatia has also grown to more than 90 billion kuna. So, these are all economic policy elements that say that the situation in the Croatian economy is very bad, that there is no real possibility of economic development, that there is no real possibility of opening new jobs, of taking advantage of the serious potentials that Croatia has in areas such as agriculture such as tourism, because the fact that the coverage of imports is barely somewhere below 47% speaks of this harsh reality and the situation that really mixed pots are because it is going to be the Law to encourage investment without having a concrete economic development strategy based on what Croatia has, on Croatian opportunities, but what we are going forward means with this sale of Croatia we will come into a situation that we will not be able to create a real economic strategy. Also, you have seen for yourself what investments have been in Croatia so far, about 12 billion euros. These were investments such as the purchase of Deutsche Telekom HT and these are investments of such a nature that all these profits are out of Croatia. We know ourselves when our entrepreneurs come to banks that are no longer Croatian, so they have a certain production program then they tell them we don't need it in Italy, or some other bank they come to, we have it in Germany, we have it in Austria. We don't need that kind of production cycle. We don't need that kind of production drive. You can get a loan in terms of consumption and everything else that tells you again about the fact that without a domestic bank that will take into account and finance investments in the domestic economy, small and medium-sized enterprises are not able to create real assumptions for the development of the Croatian economy, so this law will not achieve those planned objectives and reach. It also illustrates the whole situation to you the fact that Croatian citizens, Croatian people in countless competitions in Croatia or on the outside, receive prizes for inventions, innovations and production purposes, but there are very few who can try this invention or innovation within Croatia. Why? Because our economy is, unfortunately, so all these inventions of innovation must end up being given to other countries and then Croatia purchases licenses and all other things. Therefore, it is high time that we agreed with this consensus that Croatia finally gets the right strategy of economic development and that on such a strategy that will be based on the right staff, on the right basis, we would make it possible for Croatia to develop and economic development, because this law as such will not achieve these objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78662	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78663	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs! Here, I'll just say that the Croatian Peasant Party Club certainly supports this initiative. She's welcome, and we're not going to go into the details right now, it would be good if she were the result of a real economic strategy, but we're not going to talk about it right now. Allow perhaps related to this Final Proposal of the Law on the Encouragement of Investments several observations on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. First of all, we think it would be good to think about a few additional segments when referring to such a bill and encouraging investment in the procedure. First of all, we're talking about state incentives here, and that's understandable and okay. However, if we descend a little in municipalities, cities, counties, then we see that there are still a number of problems that they wanted me to or did not want to admit. It would be good if we could somehow put synergy and state incentives in this investment incentive and include, in some ways, under quotes or without quotes, units of local or regional regional self-government. In fact, the idea of us from the HSS Club is to see if those units of local and regional self-government are possible to stimulate which additional investment encourages. Today, of course, there are very acceptable proposals for incentives, but in order to make a final investment, there is still a lot of water to pass. First of all, it is necessary to have secured land, to provide complete municipal infrastructure, and often to seal it because if it is private land purchased at high prices, then it is always expected to help the municipality, the city or the county to participate in all these processes. And then I can say, of course, for example, the free customs zone of Varazdin or a few other entrepreneurial zones that were formed in the Varazdin County, and achieve good results that all the problems were facing. The biggest problem, for example, was that a year and a half were almost talking about a power connection, which would pay 12 megawatts of electricity connection. The county can't, the city can't, the municipality of Trnovec can't. We're waiting for HEP. HEP is a company that works naturally on the principle of profit. And who will eventually co-finance or pay. And then when the county, when the city, when the municipality does most of the work, profits... The bill goes to the state budget in full. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, well, so be it, the main thing is to invest something. So, I suggest that we might consider interacting with this proposal for a law on investment incentive and stimulating those units of local and regional self-government that will participate in these investment processes. Furthermore, it is said or rather not to say anything about how the overall investment procedure or the implementation of investments in a particular area will be slightly larger or slightly smaller. It's a good proposal to encourage, but I'm going to tell you again an example of the entrepreneurial zone of the Principal, my municipalities. When the big investor showed up we had a secure land we set up a commission, a committee that was meeting weekly and which submitted a report where it got stuck, what should be done. Well, I don't see any reason why even here this bill doesn't provide for such a commission to be a representative of the ministry from the Ministry in any zone anywhere in the Republic of Croatia and to take part in a debate over problems that may potentially arise. This co-ordination would speed up a whole series of problems or eliminate a whole series of problems and would thus give additional confidence and hope to larger or smaller investors. When we talk about investors, it must be useful here that domestic and foreign alike, but no matter what, we know that differences exist. First of all, our investors don't have as much capital as some larger foreign investors do. So they're not in the same position. Well, after all, even when they show up at the banks, we all know what problems come up. As far as these branches of activity are concerned here and mentioned, from manufacturing and processing, technology... innovation and strategic business support activities there certainly support the idea that it is well thought out whether it is not yet well mentioned, in particular to highlight certain export activities that would be, activities that would be very useful precisely because of this debalance of our imports-exports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, when I mentioned technological and developmental innovation centres, then it may be necessary to highlight more strongly and, to highlight new technologies than biomedicine, information and telecommunications technologies, and so on, which seem to have come to me well and can achieve quite large and gain. And now that we're talking about these branches of activity again, let me say some thinking about the tax benefits that are mentioned here in Article 4. Because it is said that the profit tax rate will be reduced by 50% of the prescribed profit tax rate over a period of 10 years, subject to the opening of at least 10 new jobs. It's acceptable and fine. However, it is not the same as opening 10 new jobs in a production-processing large industry or doing so in some new technology. Let's say an information activity or something. So maybe in the end we should see if we can set different criteria. Furthermore, there is talk of support for eligible costs for job creation. It is okay to talk about the unemployment rate although it has always not been the only measure and that someone based on 1500 or 2 or 3 thousand euros will really be headed to some area of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of that criterion alone. Welcome, but I'm sure where the investment climate is, where certain values are felt, that's where investors come from. I also mentioned these differences a little while ago, and the support that concerns the number of new employees, up to 10 or more, right? It would also be good to make a specific distinction in Article 8. It is not the same to perfect a production worker and perfect a specific IT expert. Of course this is where it's written in... And so on, but I'm repeating maybe you should think about some kind of dissintion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also support, of course, these encouraging measures that also apply to existing companies. That's useful and good. The problems that can arise in all this together have already been mentioned among other things, although there are legitimate problems relating to the relationship of the banking system or banks towards investors especially those who do not have enough capital for, the start to open especially these new technologies and there is a problem, the objection to the length of the procedure and so on. What is good to also say often we have opportunities to read and see how a whole series of military areas are given for use by the city, the county or so for some general purpose. It would be good to give just such surfaces that are given in fact always free of charge to use a precise fortification for these purposes and not to eventually give God through a shorter or longer period of time to turn it into a building but residential area. That I don't think would be good. Here, given that I have presented a series of these thoughts that this HSS has to do with this bill, we would, of course, be grateful to hear and some arguments related to this synergy of local self-government and state support units. And let's see if these criteria could be further dismembered in terms of initial investments. Also for the number of new employees as well as for the improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78664	Thank you. PGS-SBHS-NDS's respected representative, Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78665	... Let me therefore say a few words on behalf of the PGS-SBS-NBS Club on the proposal for a law on the promotion of investment, so with the final bill of law. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]] Our Club supports the intensity of this Act, an intensity that goes towards the possibility of increasing investment in the Republic of Croatia, thus supporting new businesses, strengthening existing companies and increasing the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia. What I particularly point out and yes, and I welcome is that this Law has its own regional dimension as well. that he is trying to solve this problem in areas such as these. by regions i.e. specifically after the county. And this law in a certain way even though we have certain objections and registers the situation on the ground. The situation is, therefore, that there are great differences in standard between our counties, between our regions. So in economic development, we hope that if this law is adopted, then. some of our possible amendments go to create conditions for the even development of Croatia. We already have such a similar law, the proposal for a law to encourage investment and that previous law, therefore, was intended primarily to attract foreign, foreign investment. This law therefore balances it between investment between foreign and domestic investors. But let's go back to the very core of this law. This law therefore speaks of direct investment. Direct investment should be a stable capital source for the recipient country. It should help finance the possible current balance of payments deficits. It should also play an important role for the economy as a means of transfer of technology and management knowledge, as well as the spread of positive effects to the rest of the economy. So that's some sort of professional definition of direct investment. Unfortunately, however, the data we have on direct investment in the Republic of Croatia in previous years tells us that few of these requirements have been met. For example, the latest data on direct investment per capita for Central and Southeast European countries show that Croatia is in a relatively high position in the society of countries that have become full members of the European Union or are currently serious candidates for entry. It is true that according to this indicator we are significantly behind the Czech Republic and Hungary, but we are ahead of Slovenia and Slovakia, far ahead of Poland, and especially in front of Bulgaria and Romania. However, the problem is therefore the main structure of our investments which is not very encouraging, and therefore the effects of investment are not as visible as in some Central European countries where investment is much less visible. The data tells us that over the past 11 years the most foreign investment has ended in the telecommunications sector is 22.5%. In addition to foreign investors' telecommunications, banking interest was 20.85% of foreign investment and pharmaceuticals 12.12%. More than 3% of foreign investment ended in the oil industry. It's actually 8.40%. The cement industry 3.43% and the hotel 3,06%. What is also interesting and important is that it dominates the takeover of existing companies while much less investment is aimed at starting new production activities or green field investments. In total, green field investments are only related to approximately 16.6 direct equity investments, and are the most serviced activities present. Also, green field investment in the processing sector is mainly about smaller projects. What is important is that very few export-oriented investments have been made, and such companies, export-oriented enterprises have become carriers of the export activity of the Central European countries and, more importantly, have ensured the effect of spillover to other sectors of the economy by encouraging an increase in productivity and competitiveness of the entire economy. Unfortunately, here is the data that tells us that despite the great investment in the Republic of Croatia, there have been some concrete, positive phenomena regarding our economy. So it's a little bit like importing new technologies. There is little innovation, and ultimately there are few new employees in the Republic of Croatia. What we should, among other things, want to warn by means of some of our amendments. Therefore, the first amendment would go to the second article on the basic part of the investment, i.e. the initial investment where regional state aid under this law cannot be granted to companies in difficulty as well as to companies in the steel industry and the synthetic fibre industry. I especially point out that here are the companies in difficulty. What does that mean? Trading companies can therefore be in different situations with their own or other guilt. I can get over these difficulties, etc. For example, it mentions the difficulties of the textile, shoe industry. So we're just going to write that shoe and textile industry off. So by this definition they couldn't get any help. Instead, I suggest a different definition, a definition proposed by the union itself. Therefore, which state that it would be useful to introduce in the legal text a legal rule that would prohibit the granting of support to employers who cannot confirm from the State Inspectorate that they are not subject to criminal or criminal proceedings for breach of the rules on working relations. For example, because of work on black, tax-based debts and contributions and the like. I think that this more concrete or concrete definition would be much, much more acceptable, and that it would go precisely to protect our workers and workers in such companies, and we know that those in some of these companies will not say in all such companies have great, large difficulties in achieving their labour rights, that they are often harassed and have no one to address their problems, and for this same job they get very little wages. We also have a comment on Article 12 which discusses incentive measures for large investment projects. These are investment projects of significant economic interest, interest or shorter strategic projects. So behind us is this clause in item 3 so that for large investment projects, in the areas of the Croatian County where the unemployment rate is registered is over 20%. So that they have the right to certain incentives. They are entitled primarily to the cost of building a new factory or industrial plant, i.e. that they receive grants and what is particularly important is that they receive grants and for the cost of buying new machinery or production equipment. We think there is almost no county in the Republic of Croatia in which employers should not or should receive such support, so we suggest that this unemployment limit be 10%. 10% because there is no big difference between, for example, the unemployment rate that lies in the County of Međimurje 15.5% and the unemployment rate in, say, the carlovakia county where 21.6% have the same problems, for example, in the textile industry. We know about the problems in the textile industry in Long Resa. We know about the problems in the textile-wearing industry in Međimurje County. If, then, we could apply this article to make our border 20 percent unemployed. Therefore, Međimurje’s textiles could not get these benefits by which they could get at least little support for the cost of buying new machinery or manufacturing equipment, which is what everyone needs, and I think that should be considered. Because I'm saying, it's strategic development projects. So what I would say is, in the end, this law only partially solves the problem of our economy. We know that the biggest problem, the overall problem of our economy, is competitiveness, we know that Croatia is recording certain successes, so that it is slowly climbing at that level of competitiveness in the world. It is now in 62nd place of 117 countries. It is in the group with Bulgaria and Romania, but entrepreneurs themselves continue to warn that the present problems of corruption, insufficient efficiency of the state administration, insufficient investment in research and development, that problems in technology transfer, the budget deficit of foreign investment as sources of new technologies, low quality of business schools, etc. That our employers are, on a daily basis, also thrown out by new fiscal pressures. They can only mention one of the largest, most important, introduction of a water contribution that has made it very difficult to build new production plants. There is also a problem with various new local taxes, local... to which our municipalities, cities and counties are forced simply because they have too little budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so I think that this problem should also be brought into line with all the other segments, primarily to become part of the economic strategy. So, in principle, we support this law. And then we'll see how the amendment goes, and then we'll vote that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78666	Thank you. SDP club, vice president of the House, respected representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78667	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, any law that encourages investment that should lead to an increase in national gross products that need to open new investments, create the possibility of creating new jobs and new employment is looking forward to and is welcome. And in this respect, we, too, have been very careful, despite the fact that this material came relatively late to study material, believing that we will get more significant changes and innovations compared to the already applicable Investment Encouragement Act in the Republic of Croatia. But I must say, we are quite disappointed. First of all, what we would like to warn quite in principle is that most of the measures, the incentive measures set out in Article 3 of this Law, which speak to me about tax, customs support for eligible costs for job creation, improvement and investment related, etc. In fact, they exist in the existing law. However, the practice of the existing law shows something that is very important. The problem that is intended to be achieved among other things, and it is pointed out as the aim of this bill, which is a uniform or even development of the Republic of Croatia or even employment, employment can actually be difficult to address these proposals of the law. Quite in principle speaking. You know, you don't have a lot of opportunities and benefits from tax reliefs in economic operators if these economic operators aren't able to actually make a profit, because they have such a bad business or have no such option. And what is very important to see is the unequal development of the Republic of Croatia that its peripheral areas are increasingly lagging behind central areas, developed areas. And in such a situation it is quite clear that we should actually discuss one new measure through investment incentives, that is so-called. direct investments that should enable the creation of production units where new jobs will be created and jobs will be employed and at the same time which will start to process raw materials that are located in that area either as a natural wealth, whether as a wealth that will create people as a semi-product or as raw materials for a higher, to a higher level of the processing quality of the new product, provided that that product has, of course, pass on the domestic and foreign markets. Otherwise, all this is offered is not bad, but it won't be enough to actually start implementing regional development policy in the Republic of Croatia and that these problems that have already become so serious so far that our citizens are not only economically, not only socially, but also culturally organised and interestingly determined to create actually political parties that are no longer leading to regional policy, which is good and that we all support, but that are actually running more and more autonomous policies that they are trying to come up with to manage their resources independently of the state central government. We warn and feel that this issue should begin to be resolved quite seriously, quickly, not only because of the prosperity and development of the entire Republic of Croatia but also because of problems which, if we do not solve, can arise and can be created. Another problem we warn of is that it is not good to directly involve the state and state institutions in economic operators. This is the principle again. Here everyone is now doing business with a former fund where it was actually trying to avoid how much direct involvement the state has in economic processes, in fact, is now returning to the ministry, to the resolution ministry and other ministries that will deal with these affairs. And at that moment, not only do we have a new paraetistic form of governance in part and accumulation that is being achieved within the state budget and allocation, and accumulation into the economic system through investment incentives, but we are essentially doing a very serious question that is being made on economic operators that will occur either domestic or natural persons to get an investment boost. We will start applying administrative procedures and possibly administrative disputes. The only problem is that this law, which is our third remark, is that there will be no dispute between the entities that will appear as candidates for the achievement of encouraging measures, and, of course, of the state or specifically resolute ministries. So these three, four important things tell us that we actually have one situation that is contrary to some principled position in which we have both in cooperation and in cooperation with the European Union, but also with the need for our economy, which is that the state should actually create conditions for restructuring the economy through privatisation and conversion to open up the possibility and free entrepreneurship to develop and at the same time that the state creates equal chances and opportunities for every entrepreneur, not that it is directly involved in that part. That's why we think that we should actually discuss the possibility that instead of this transfer of powers again to, and re-reimbursing obligations to the ministry, we should consider it eventually. That instead of being a fund, the agency or some other body that will actually work on the principle of public authorities that would be given by law, while at the same time the ministry is doing what is far more important, which is to monitor the legality of the work and implementation of the law in practice. Of course, beyond that, our own, from these four previous principles, follows our fifth principle observation that it is a real shame that we cannot actually discuss this law in two readings but is proposed by an emergency procedure and that it should enter into force on 1 January next year. And what exactly is going to happen? A whole series of issues that have already been mentioned and some of us mention both in principle and individually, warn that the law is incomplete, that it needs to be completed and perfected, and that from an economic point of view, from a legal point of view, and, of course, in that segment, especially from a social perspective, which I will also say something about through individual remarks. And a special thing to point out. Here you are mentioned the goals that the law seeks to achieve, such as the increase in gross domestic product, and then the same goal is justified by other objectives of the same, the increase in GDP per capita, so that is the consequence if a national gross product is increased, assuming, of course, that national income is growing, that is a question that should be taken into account, but in that respect, we will not now discuss these small things, but we are opening up what is far more important as a question that should be discussed individually. The legislator himself says that the law, the current law provides for a Fund to encourage and create new jobs and that now it will no longer be a fund but will be done by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship directly take over the jobs of encouraging job creation and job creation and professional education or retraining. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the SDP's Club of Representatives for this kind of expansion of jobs without amending the Ministry's Jurisdiction Act could hardly agree. First, for the purpose of creating parallel institutions. What will actually be done by the institutions and agencies that, under special law, carry out incentives and carry out employment activities, for which they are paid, for which the part in the budget is allocated additional funds. The issue remains quite serious, in which way the ministry will work. Whether it will now actually make subdivisions on the ground, by units of local and regional self-government that will need to do these jobs and take over, in fact, be the holder of economic powers in law enforcement. Well, that's not the same thing! Law enforcement is something else, these are business functions that need to be performed and in such a situation it is absolutely certain that they will make mistakes. The third thing that we would like to say is that the law itself says in the explanation, does not make a difference between domestic and foreign investors, and then, in the follow-up to that same paragraph, it actually writes a sentence that says: The aim of the law is to encourage domestic economic operators to encourage their investments and all activities. I guess the aim of the law here is to encourage both, to become investment functions and activities and to target them in the Republic of Croatia in particular in areas that are underdeveloped or underdeveloped and which have a high unemployment rate to address both economic and social issues. We must say that it is quite interesting, and this view, in the context of the development of a model of application of encouraging employment measures, is particularly taken into account the criteria of registered unemployment rate according to the data provided by the State Statistics Office for certain areas where investment needs to be realised in view of the essential fact, a very large proportion in registered unemployment rates in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia. But before that, gentlemen need to answer the question, and what economic activities can be achieved there that will create new jobs and employ, produce a product that will pass and bring income. We cannot answer that question without a systematic and meaningful economic policy which must come from the economic strategy of the Republic of Croatia and which, unfortunately, we do not have. And in such a situation, the circle actually closes. We need to talk openly about these issues and we need to talk openly about what we have, what we do not have and on what basis we will apply this law, because the economic strategy of the Republic of Croatia has not adopted. By stopping or delaying cooperation with the International Monetary Fund related to the stand by arrangement, we do not have any longer economic policy for this coming year or at least the Government has not presented it in this Parliament to be familiar with it, nor with our public. Therefore, in such a situation, it is placed, and on the basis of which the criteria will indeed be obtained except for the naked statistics. We're afraid of one thing that's very important. In order not to eventually start to develop some investment investment that will be a failure to invest and actually swallow the money of investors as well as the incentive measures that and the funds that we give from these encouraging sources of the Republic of Croatia. Especially now a few individual remarks. The most important thing for us is that the observation is over, and I don't know if it's a mistake or intention, I don't understand, that Article 5 says among other things: "In the amount of eligible investment costs referred to in Article 2(5) and Article 4 of this Act, the amount of investment made up of land will not be included, etc. etc. Now the question is what does it mean, that anyone who wants to create a whole new investment has to buy land, has to provide some kind of, why it won't or better told whether it's a situation when we tell anyone then we don't just think about company and natural persons. What about units of local and regional self-government that have such land and which can, as their contribution to joint investment, invest those land and why would prevent them from actually doing so, but on this basis, jointly seek encouraging measures to achieve certain incentives by the state to develop their end and hire and address serious issues. About the tax parts, of course, now the height of whether I don't know a million and a half euros in Kunian equivalent and up to 10 years, etc. or it will be more as provided in paragraph 4.K is released 100% if it is... of 8 million euros. [[You don't understand.]] In fact, it is also linked to the possibilities of budgets and incentives. But what's very important. It should be indicated here for up to 10 years that it will be released, and in the last paragraph 7, it is well said, with these investments that it will export at least 5 years, but not shorter than the period of application of the incentive measures. Now we've actually determined the lowest age, five years. So it's not up to 10, but at least 5 to 10 years. It should fix it that way and simply our entrepreneurs when they get into these jobs know what it's about. The same thing is about one question that's pretty interesting, you know. This is support for eligible costs, the opening of new jobs where, in the final line, paragraph 3, it is projected to amount to up to 3,000 euros. You know, when you recalculate it then it's a little less than the gross average guaranteed salary in the Republic of Croatia. Now the question is, if it's a little less than gross guaranteed wages, then the question is whether it's actually an incentive measure or now it's become a social measure, but not more for the unemployed and the worker than for the entrepreneur who takes off his obligation, the price of work, and in such a situation we support this solution, but then the basics for taxation of salaries and incomes that are in the Republic of Croatia must be changed significantly. It can no longer be such a low guaranteed salary, it must rise to a higher level. In Article 8, of course, when it comes to these trainings of general training, it is a little generally undefined, but especially in b), under point (b) it refers to the acquisition of theoretical and practical knowledge, and the question arises what about skills. There is a lot of need to acquire new skills for redesigning and training for taking over operational jobs. And the question remains clear in Articles 13, 14 and 15, that is the issue of resolving disputes that have completely fallen out. This issue must be incorporated into a new chapter because it must be opened in the light of constitutional provisions, in Articles 18 and 19, that all solutions by state authorities must be subject to an appeal. Extraordinary appeal can be denied, but no administrative dispute can be denied. Therefore, these issues should be identified and the issue of administrative disputes resolved. And of course, have in Article 15(1) a complete tipfeller. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in In paragraph 8, the Government shall be empowered to settle these specific issues by means of a regulation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78668	Thank you. The HNS club, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. At 12 and 14 it was time to apply for a debate of 10 minutes per wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78669	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I can't say, but this is an emergency. This law has an "E" within it, so we support this law. Because in itself it is understood, so this problem is aligned with the European acquis and we do not have, we will vote for this law. But there's something else going on. The law is called, therefore, the Investment Encouragement Act. The question for whom do we pass this law? Someone just spoke here in what was most invested in Croatia. Telecommunications and banking. What happened to those investments? It was privatised to national well-being, workers were fired, so these are investments where people were fired. Banks and telecommunications. I, as logically as I understand it, should encourage some investment in the first place for the purpose of hiring and reducing the unemployment rate. Today, these investments are low, I think a colleague from these regional parties said that the percentage of greenfield investments that are very small in Croatia is a very small percentage, and the question is whether we did everything to enable investors of such investment. Did we secure safe investments, therefore, safe conditions for investment? Have we made any other assumptions in terms of infrastructure, municipal infrastructure? I'm not so sure we are. Many economic zones in Croatia are opening today, I don't know, a few hundred, I think. Look what's in those zones. At least production, trade, and this country weighs, is what this government weighs. Trade stretches because VAT is collected at the border, all goods are imported. In Croatia, the general picture in Croatia is that nothing is worth producing in Croatia, and we were once in another system not only in the former state but also in these areas of power, for example, in the meditary industry. And then by privatizing it, we destroyed it all, made it into sales centres and that power, if you want the human knowledge and knowledge we had, it's completely untapped today. A number of people who are gravitating north of Italy have moved to Italy to work, and many have retired, minimum pensions and, behold, as a miracle of the country we have with a million and 400 thousand employees and a million and 100,000 pensioners and we are still working. The question is, how? And not only are we working, but the budget for this year is 9% higher than the previous year. And GDP growth is 4 and a half percent. So the total GDP because the budget is about half of GDP, the total GDP for next year is projected to be spent through the budget. Total GDP growth. And that is, these are the problems I would say are not thinking about, and yes, I forgot to say something about how some investors come to Croatia. No paper can be found, no spatial plans exist, let alone some other low level that would allow investment in municipalities and cities. And where there are such plans, red tape works according to its own. No paper can be obtained without paying for it and the question of when the man who comes here starts to be interested in investment. The question of whether he thinks of going back more to Croatia at all because he probably has it in other countries, but nowhere is it expressed as ours. It may be in these eastern countries, but there will be one who wants to invest much easier because the salaries are half of ours and less than half of ours. Recently, it came out in the newspaper about what the salaries are in Croatia and Slovenia, Hungary, Romania, so you saw we are the second behind Slovenia and that is still little, we are still talking about a bad standard. The question is how is it distributed, that average salary of 4000 and 600 kuna, when you turn it into former stamps or euro and it's not so small, but how much does it cover costs? It's a big question and that's why I'm saying we're gonna be for this law just don't know who we're gonna serve, I don't know how much it's going to use, and these planned funds of ministers are probably going to be hard to spend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78670	Thank you. Honorable representative Walter Poropat. Here you go. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78671	An individual discussion, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78673	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary with a colleague. In view of the fact that this Proposal for a Law on the Encouragement of Investments is an emergency procedure, we can give guidance and suggestions in the debate that will make investment more clear and better defined. Of course, we in the IDS have supported and will support proposals that will go towards better solutions and improve what has so far been to foster investment. The current Investment Encouragement Act provided for encouraging measures in the field of tax relief, customs relief, incentives to create new jobs and incentives for education or retraining of workers. Regardless of the incentive measures prescribed by the law of the basic obstacle to the realisation of investments in the Republic of Croatia, administrative obstacles and lack of coordination between state institutions, as well as public companies are evident. It is difficult to decide to launch an investment project unless there is adequate regional self-government, i.e. adequate infrastructure, and when it comes to larger projects, local and regional self-government cannot achieve it alone. So, proposals happen, investors come, and infrastructure as such is simply so expensive that units of local and regional self-government cannot finance it themselves. Analyzing the bill may need to clarify the solutions to some concerns. For example, if someone wants to invest in a new production plant where they would hire 100 new workers, and is considering a possible destination, they will not be able to reliably calculate investment and business costs over a certain period, which is precisely crucial for the selection of destination. Here are the issues of specific purchases, i.e. land sales. We can conclude that the Law in some things is unspeakable in its implementation. Personally, I believe that coordination should be conducted by state agencies modelled by IDA from Ireland, Czech Invest from Czechoslovakia, "DTH" from Hungary, and that I do not count further. All transition countries had such or similar agencies and still have them and they co-ordinate jobs to boost investment. I would like to mention here that in Istria we founded an Istrian Development Agency that is owned by Istria County and all cities in Istria through which business projects and mutual relations with banks and ministries are directly supported by finance to craftsmen, medium and small entrepreneurs. After that, another step was taken when the Istrian County and the Istrian Development Agency established the Istra Guarantee Fund 21. This Guarantee Fund, which guarantees their credits to entrepreneurs in business banks and takes over the same entrepreneurs, takes less risks with the Fund and reduces the interest on loans, which is certainly commendable for each example. Furthermore, I would like to say that the Investment Encouragement Act should clearly determine that it constitutes a fundamental mechanism for launching the leverage of Croatian economy growth and revitalising production, exports, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, foreign direct investment and regional development. In addition to the positive general climate for investment, short and clear procedures are of paramount importance for the selection of investment destinations. As regards co-financing, it is necessary to co-finance investments in export-related activities, stimulate producers, but also exporters, whether or not direct producers, stimulate exporters of services, and in particular to stimulate tourism, stimulate investments in areas of particular interest, investment in branches and activities of particular interest, co-financing of interest, co-financing of interest on loans for production, export, investment in areas of particular interest, branches and activities of particular interest, co-financing of infrastructure, land purchase, construction of an facility of course depending on the area of investment or branch and activities which is of particular interest. Co-financing of employment, co-financing of education, training, retraining, co-financing of research and development. I would especially like to point out here that Croatia is a small country with a high potential of highly qualified and highly educated people, and it may be necessary to highlight and co-finance the research of gentlemen and development under a special sentence. Co-financing should always be linked to the amount of investment and the number of newly employed employees except when co-financing for employment, education, training and re-qualification where the amounts should be determined per person. Let me mention a couple of other measures. Introducing the possibility of accelerated depreciation which is a very interesting thing, newly employed workers free of social benefits of at least 12 months, in areas of particular interest to enable the use of land and buildings owned by a state without compensation, or to grant land and facilities with an obligation to start economic activities and employment. This has already proved realistic in some examples, in particular to stimulate companies using raw materials and semi-products from Croatia in their export programme or that suppliers are Croatian companies, to encourage the development of industrial zones and free customs zones, to simplify the customs procedure and to "internal consumption" in Croatia. And I particularly underline that, and that is to come up with special benefits for our citizens returning from the diaspora. And they are our true wealth. I'm saying this because right from the county or the city of Labinscina, where I come from, there's a lot of people living outside Croatia and there's a nice number of people who would like to invest their knowledge and their money in our country. Your Honor, Mr. Minister! Of course, IDS, as club president Damir Cain said, will support practically any solution that will be better than what we have now and I believe that there will also be some additional things in this reading that could improve this Encouragement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78674	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78675	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I'd like to say that I'm a little disappointed with the fact that even all the clubs haven't found fit to reflect on this law that is one of the most significant things we've ever had in the past three years, a law that depends on the quality of life in this country and practically every segment of that life. What bothers me further is the fact that here in this initial part of the law, the reasoning of the law itself, we have one finding that I think we should underline. It clearly states that the current Investment Encouragement Act has not achieved the expected results in the period 2001 to 2005. I wonder why we've waited so long? Why is there no regular annual analysis of the impact of such laws? Why does it have to take step two after six years? And in the full five years we've only had here stands a number here of 42 newly founded companies. All 700m euros in investment, thanks to the law and only a few thousand planned jobs. Planned. I don't know how many of them today are actually realized. I have answered even though I am not an expert in this area at least not an economic-economic part but at least I will be able to show myself to the part where I can help and where I think I should say a few words as a parliamentary representative. In the opening part of the law, it states that when designing a model for the application of incentive employment measures, I underline this in particular, taking into account the criteria of registered unemployment rate according to the data of the State Statistics Office. So, just a percentage of the unemployed. Not the structure of the unemployed. Not the jobless profile. I don't see anything here about requalifications that we've possibly tried in the course of these past few years. Maybe that's why it didn't go the way we wanted it to. I'll just give you Mr. Minister an example of Slovakia where I was recently staying. Mr. Pupovac couldn't go to that meeting, so he asked me to leave, and Mr. President of the Parliament approved it. There was just a matter of this kind of matter under one of the points and colleagues from Slovakia told us, you know, no more serious investor who comes to Slovakia we don't take him under a delegation in the ranks of the following people, Minister of Economy, Mayor, Mayor. The minister clearly explains the legal regulation, the advantages of investment, relief and everything else. The mayor promises to the investor because he has professional and secondary schools under him to adapt the admission policy to and from those schools and programmes of those schools to whom? It's the needs of the economy and these potential investors. Of course the mayor promises what? Communal infrastructure, water, electricity, gas. In 5, 6 or 12 weeks, everything is arranged. Why can't we take serious investors in this system? Why is it not possible to approach such a serious attempt to advance a clear investment cycle in our country? That shouldn't be impossible for us. Furthermore, I have an objection and looking at my county. I have told both my mayor and the president of the Chamber of Commerce many times, you never sit together, the President of the Chamber, the Mayor, the Rector. There are countless possibilities. Europe has been offering you Tempus scholarship projects for years, etc. Who always gets them? They are obtained by scientists of basic sciences, etc. There's never room to agree to leave a few welders from May 3, from the Oilies, from Concar to learn the technology of digesting some kind of alloy or something we don't know... some plastics we don't know how to be more resilient, more quality, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's no coordination, there's no organization, there's nothing based on the real needs of the economy and what we're planning to do in the future. Nothing. I'm just looking at some things that I'm understood not to repeat what my colleagues have already said. Another question that my tops ask. They say, if there is going to be unemployment around the county and this is the basic criterion where we are up, so one passive area, one area where citizens live in extreme conditions, where the Law on mountainous areas gave them a clear wind in the sails, whether this law will derivate the other law and make their position more difficult now, etc.? So it's one of the concerns of which is clearly being placed now related to micro regions, micro areas within our counties and you have to admit it's a very serious matter. There are also islands where we should certainly do everything to avoid any disturbances in relation to the relatively positive regulations and laws that we have previously passed, not this assembly of parliaments but the one before us, but I think it should be respected, what is well maintained and preserved. As regards Article 1 of this Act, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: ... Incentive measures regulated by law relate to investment projects in manufacturing and processing economic activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For every commendation, and that's good, that's first. And especially what colleagues have said we support in HNS everything that is of export nature first of all. However, I would like to say under d) technology-development innovation centres. Here's my experience and I know what the situation is in a number of counties of technological and innovation centers are really based somewhere on the needs of the economy but most often not. These are centers that in most cases did not justify their existence, did not employ God-given how many families based on their projects and based on what they did in the last ten, fifteen years, and I am not sure that they deserve at least this way set up to get additional funding and to be immediately ranked behind the development and processing industry and the economy. And under c) strategic business support activities, I have no idea what that is, I can't help you. D) tourism, I would like to look back when my colleagues here mentioned tourism. Our constant salary of tourism. You know, tourism in Croatia needs less encouragement and help when it comes to beds, when it comes to walls, when it comes to better these walls. Tourism needs the support of that part of our industry that needs to feed tourism. If tourism is an export branch under the influence that we sell domestic products to a foreigner who comes. If we sell imported food and this is the case in 70% of what they consume, then I am clearly asking my colleagues who have suggested these changes here whether it relates to all parts of tourism or primarily to agriculture and similar industrial branches that should feed this tourism and through this will clearly increase the country's exports through the tourist offer. Regarding this coordination where I also believe that the ministry and every government, this and every future one, would have to do more. That's what I'm gonna end up with. It's a case of a French model I liked, and I'm going to convince him here. An entrepreneur who wants to open a company goes to a local bank or goes to a local community and always gets the same answer. The French state imports these 70 items or 170 items, anyway. If you are going to produce any of these, then the incentive system is the most clear if it is outside the EU system. If they import even from other EU countries it is a B-enhancing system, once again very favourable. And then if it's purely commercial, some logic where there's already enough on the market to fund C. We in Croatia have never even tried to put together a list of what would be important to try to produce our strengths, try to encourage young people to open such companies, to develop economic activity in this direction, to increase exports. It all comes down to markets, supermarkets, shops, wholesales, sad. Here, that's what I had to say. And I think a more serious analyst, a more serious coordination and an organisation could certainly contribute significantly to this law and in this law, I don't see it in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78676	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78677	Thank you very much. I must stress that my colleague Doric has made it perfectly clear that our counties are not as well developed as our counties are not evenly developed and go with the incentive method only to the average of the counties I am afraid that they will quickly break all of us upside down. Therefore, it shows that the legislator is going with some kind of person, whether or not he considers these to be short-term measures. Because if you were to think more seriously about the long term then you'd be given the opportunity to have some municipalities, groups of municipalities go together. But this way, we won't get the best possible effects on one side. On the other hand, when you talked about infrastructure, so far, we have a situation that certain cities and municipalities have invested in infrastructure. They've often been in charge of themselves. There are again a little more passive role for the county because they usually lack ownership, no territory or no land, and they can in some way help create and finance infrastructure. However, this greatest burden falls on cities and municipalities. And then we have a paradoxical situation that in the past, as part of this session of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, we simply took away the possibility that later these units of local and regional self-government would participate in profit tax. How they now have the incentive to get into something like that. And thirdly, it seems to me that one of the fundamental characteristics of this law should be the restructuring of the economy. For example, in north-west Croatia unemployment is somewhat lower but the structure of the economy is based on a low-accumulated economy of footwear, wood-processing, textile industry. The incentives should also go to the existing economy, provided it is restructured, it gets more modern technologies and everything else, it's a disadvantage that unfortunately does not exist here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78678	Reply to the replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78679	I thank my colleague, Korenik, for this support. When I was talking about lack of coordination, I was thinking about that component. Normally, if the minister sits with the mayor and negotiates with the investor, he must encourage both assistance and the city and the municipalities if necessary. I don't suppose because of some lack of infrastructure specifics the whole major project is going down if it's about several hundred thousand kunas, the state has to intervene towards it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78680	Honorable representative Valter Poropat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78681	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I must say that you and my colleague Doric, in my opinion, were completely affected when you were talking about the lack of coordination as you should actually be on the ground. The minister, mayor, mayor and head of high school must be people who will talk to the investor or on his inquiry to think that he will at all present his request and give him an answer. I must say that we have had such coordination in the lab and the Ministry of Economy has been involved in this, and this coordination is today giving results.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78682	Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78683	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law of economic activity. I think it's a good law and I will personally support it and I believe all my colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community, and I hope other MPs do. On the one hand, it aligns this area with the regulation of the European Union when it comes to State interventions in the economic sector and certainly the Ministry has also implemented the provisions of the Competition Protection Act. In any case, this is one Law which is part of the Croatian economy development strategy and is actually an instrument of economic policy not only to increase social, gross social product and is a priority but in the first place I would say equal development and new employment, and this Law also allows the Croatian economy, companies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether they are owned by Croatia or someone else, it is important that they are dominant in terms of strengthening their competitiveness and increasing the exports of the total economy of Croatia with the aim of reducing the external trade deficit that is still, although this government has made a significant step still great and significant. I will certainly mention tax benefits mainly of profit tax since we are talking and adopting the state budget that it was one discussion is about the Law on the financing of local self-government units, certain dilemmas, and this is now exactly the opportunity where we can see where the state is giving up, i.e. directs significant money depending on the interest that will be between 50 and 100% profit tax, means investment, the amount of investment and the number of employees that should be employed by the basis of the provisions of this Act. It certainly did not forget about the staff, the personnel sector, that is, this is also an opportunity for new investments for new training, new knowledge and new skills, and it is certainly the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the competent ministry, as the gentleman himself said on behalf of the HNS Club that the law is good and that it should be accepted as such. What I would particularly stress, and this law cannot regulate this, is the role of the units of local self-government in reviving, reviving this Law and the goal that it aims to achieve. I believe that the units of local self-government are municipalities and cities, including the counties that have great importance, that the state of this law there has created a good proposal on the law to create a good framework and that depending on the problems that will be concrete, means in the areas of the units of local self-government through working zones and other ways to get this Law through the result that should be obtained. I can say, for example, the Dalmatian Zagora, the example of Sinj himself, some of the dilemmas that exist, and in the first place it depends on us who live in these areas, or depend on those who run those units of local self-government. We are particularly witnessing the devastation of karst fields, Sinjsko polje and other karst fields in the region of Dalmatia, and often it is said that there should also be new plants, any dairy to revive livestock, any plant for the launch of vegetables, vegetables, but firstly I want to say that it depends on the units of local self-government, on the concept of their development and the state, which, by this law creates a good one I would say a great framework, but it is now at lower levels to achieve those objectives set out in this Law and the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, what the results will be, what we will achieve is not just a matter of the ministry, it is a matter of all of us, it is a unit of local self-government, and I believe that the programme that needs to go from the base, based on the benefits and the basis of the stimuli that are given in this Bill proposal can come to the results that we all expect, which means reducing the unemployed, increasing the social gross product and the even development of the Republic of Croatia. I think it's the law, I'm going to say it's good again, that it's on track and in the spirit of European legislation and that it's compatible with the Competition Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78684	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78685	Well, I'd like to replicate my colleague Bitunjac to this part of the story when he mentioned an amendment to the Law on the financing of local self-government units. You see, a colleague of this Law doesn't say anything about what is now being denied by the state, because so far in the Investment Encouragement Act there has also been a reduction in profit tax given the amount of investment, and now that it has been a common tax, but the units of local self-government have been stimulated to ensure, create conditions for companies to come, to have their seats there to pay for profits among other things. Even local self-government units either gave free land or did not charge a municipal contribution so that at one point when profits are paid it would be part of the income of local self-government units 20% of the municipalities, 10% of the county, and thus far 70% have been harvested by the state. However, the state will not reduce the incomes of local self-government units here, which is already evident in the adoption of the budget of local self-government units, it will also do so when it increases the non-taxable share of wages which has a significant impact on the incomes of local self-government units, and the fact is that in the future the state will do so, perhaps even this pre-election time. And there's something else I want to tell you. You see, I really appreciate the effort of every unit of local self-government to promote entrepreneurship and create conditions for fostering and entrepreneurship, but we are not equal because there were 17 sessions of the Government of Croatia throughout Croatia, where the state divided the land, donated them to the units of the self-government site and then came to Koprivnica at the 18th session where it gave no meter of land but only gave the right to build, and we in Koprivnica had to buy and pay every kilowatt of electricity to the entrepreneurial zone in Koprivnica so that we do not have all the same starting positions as you want to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78686	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78687	Thank you very much. So, my colleague Mršić, I did not mean to discuss the budget either decentralisation or the centralisation of funds, but in the first order, I believe that under this Law the unit of local self-government, the competent ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should work together on the economic development of Croatia, and in this direction I do not see any obstacles in order to possibly amend the Finance Act that we recently adopted through the budget in order to be a limiting factor. In any case, there should be symbiosis between one and the other, but I think that at least in the area where I come from priority and those stimuli that were for local self-government units is crucial, and these mechanisms can use further is new employment, and when it comes to income tax, it is certainly the income of local self-government units, therefore new employment and income tax is certainly an increase in the budget of local self-government units. So go, drag some strict borders between the state, county and local self-government units when it comes to responsibility, and when it comes to the development of the economy, I think it's notsens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78688	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am going to totally agree with my colleague Bitunjec when he says the programs have to leave the base. But what's happening to us? It happens to us that a large part of the local self-government units has not yet adopted spatial-planned documents, and then perhaps it would be good, I suggest, that these units that haven't solved their spatial-planned documentation to help them, some of them are not able to finance such spatial planning documents, to help them in order to go, based on spatial-planned, spatial-planned documents, or to invite an investor, to offer him a proposal where this can happen, but I believe that the units of local self-government that in Croatia still have a large number that do not have a solution to the spatial-plank documentation will not have the opportunity for such incentive measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78690	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78691	Thank you very much. Comrade Poirot, I agree that these are spatial plans, that this is the basis. It is a document that is a prerequisite for any development, social, economic, any development. But you have to bear in mind, in the term of this government when we talk about spatial plans, that we are somewhere with 150 units of local, 100, 150 units of local self-government that had spatial plans in 2003 precisely through the competent ministries and counties that almost 500 units of local self-government today have spatial plans. Therefore, this should not be some limiting factor. And in any case, without, without one dialogue, without one coordination, and I believe that the Government will, through the Ministry or through the Agency for the Encouragement of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship and through other state institutions and that we will... to reach the desired goal regardless of political relations, as is here in the Parliament, as is in any unit of local self-government regardless of how we step by step go forward and I think this law is one big step in the direction of a new... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] when it comes to the development of the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78692	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bitunjac rightly said that the units of local and regional self-government in implementing this law are extremely important. But I'm going to show you, for example, what happened in Varazdin County that the government and the parliamentary majority are just as maternal as compared to them. One municipality in the area of Varazdin has been helped by the business zone, it has changed its first spatial plan. She helped and animated citizens to sell cheaply and really cheaply agricultural land that had been converted into construction land. She determined and gave up her communal contribution. She's determined a minimum communal fee. For several years, profit tax was not paid, and now that it was finally supposed to earn something from it for its further development in this High House and the Law on Changes on the financing of local and regional self-government units, they were left without income. They get their income tax back. But a respected colleague in that local self-government unit, the smallest number of new employees in these factories that work are from their community. Therefore, in the future, the municipalities will in the future ask investors to hire their people because what is their interest? If they don't have a share in profit tax, and they don't have it, you tell me which way you're going to, they'll have an interest in making something like that. Obviously not. And if we don't change and obviously that the government and when it went with the Bill on the financing of units for local and regional self-government either didn't want or simply didn't know what it was doing, it went that way. Otherwise, if we want to implement this law better, we will have to give one part of the tax cake, profit tax and local self-government units sooner or later, because I'm afraid the effects will be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78694	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78695	Thank you very much. So, you see, I think what you just said, I would draw one point out of it, one, one look at you, one philosophy when it comes to the state, which is that the apriors of the units of local self-government and state are opposed. I think it's the state and the municipalities and the city and the county and what we call the state. Therefore, it should be seen as one and the same, as certain levels of the state and with the aim of socio-economic development. I don't think it is, I've never heard of it from any of the mayors, that he would be a major driver or a stimulant when it comes to the development of the economy, a larger budget. No, I don't. It is in the first order of resolving employment and addressing social problems in the area concerned. And you now mentioning one unit of local self-government I'll illustrate with a counter argument. Here's an example, for example, of Sinj. In Sinj HDZ is not in power and I can tell you, and that I can testify to you others that in these three years, almost all the demands concerning the economy, which concerned any incentive to solve the land that you have not solved in these three years, are 140 hectares. On solving other water supply problems, in addressing interventions both in the social and economic sectors when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at least this Government then City of Sinj is not bypassed regardless of political constellations. It will not be bypassed and I am sure if they are good programs and if they are quality programs that each unit of local self-government will have an absolute respect and objectivity for this Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78696	Thank you. Final Minister of Economy, here you go. A wolflet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78698	I'm sorry. It was a job handover. They told me that, that... It's for an individual debate, isn't it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Minister, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78699	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. The handover of the service wasn't according to the PS looks. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is certainly good that the government is going with the amendment of the Investment Encouragement Act and said counterpart Kovacevic in his statement on behalf of the Club that the government is carrying out another pre-election promise. I couldn't replicate him or agree with him because it's simply true and it's another pre-election promise that this government has carried out as it has so far. I've given myself a little effort, so I've done a comparative analysis of the existing and new law by encouraging investment, and I'm deeply convinced that this new law is far better, even though I don't think the existing law was bad, fairer. First of all, as regards the level of investment under the existing law, incentives were intended for a minimum of four million kunas. The new law also provides for a proposal in the new law that it is up to 300,000 euros or 2 million kunas. It will therefore be covered by a new law of a much more economical nature. As far as investment is concerned, investment under the old law was worth things, rights and obligations entered into the underlying capital. The new law defines it as a standard basis for real estate, buildings, equipment, immaterial investment, patents, licenses up to 50%, job opening costs, gross wages in a two-year period. In the category of promoters, the old law provides only newly established companies with the exception and existing companies of tourist activity. The new law defines it much better and provides for a new commercial society. Expansion of the existing company, the launch of activities as markings, a fundamental change in the production or production process or the modernisation of the existing company. The aid for the opening of new jobs in the old law provides for the existence of a one-time cash fee of 15000 kuna with the establishment of a Fund for the Encouraging of New Jobs. The new law, the level of aid for job creation, depends on the county's unemployment and activity rate, investment project activities, and the grants for job creation range between 1500 and 4000 euros per newly opened job. So, much, much more favourable for new employees and employers. Help to improve employees in the old law, cover the costs of vocational education or requalification up to 50% of these costs. Proposal for a new law, the law distinguishes the costs of general and special improvement. For general training costs, up to 60% for large and up to 80% for medium and small entrepreneurs. In general, the aid is up to 35% for large and 45% for medium and small entrepreneurs compared to the level of eligible costs of improvement. Tax incentives. The current law provides for a reduction in the profit tax rate from 20 to 7, 3 or 0 depending on the level of investment and the number of new employees. The new law reduces the profit tax rate depending on the amount of investment and the number of newly opened jobs. The profit tax rate by 20 can be reduced by 50, 65, 85 and 100%, respectively. Customs incentives remain the same except in the new law they apply until Croatia enters the European Union. As regards the incentives for large investment projects, for large investment projects and incentives for the same ones, the old law did not provide. The new law predicts them, too. Special incentive for major investment projects in districts where the unemployment rate is more than 20% unfortunately, we in Croatia have such counties. But I hope that with some time of application of this law, such a county will disappear or be less and less. Large investment projects, investment in long-term assets, at least 15m euros. Opening at least 100 jobs. Building a new factory, launching a new economy of activity and developing new technologies. For large investment projects with the incentives and measures mentioned so far, a special incentive measure, i.e. grants, is also approved: for the cost of building a new factory or buying new machines up to a maximum of 5% of these costs, but at a maximum of up to 1 million euros. For the cost of building infrastructure facilities or infrastructure connections up to a maximum of five percentage costs, but at a maximum of up to 500 000 euros. Of course, this is a law that encourages new investments that will boost and increase economic work and continue the economic growth that has also not been disrupted in these past years by the minds and municipalities and cities, the county that also encourages small, medium and large economies to invest. A colleague said that what would happen to the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area mentioning Gori Kotar. This is because I come from this area, this law does not touch mountain-mounted areas at all, the units of local self-government that had incentive measures as units in the mountain-mounted area remain and remain applicable to them. As regards the spatial planning documentation of fellow Valter Poropat, he mentioned that this law did not cover subsidies or incentives for spatial planning documentation and that it was certainly necessary to do so, so I know very well and know many municipalities and cities that used it. But our Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection to units of local self-government that are willing, once again, I stress that they are willing to bring spatial planning documentation and are fiscally not ready to fully finance the development of spatial and planning documentation. So if they have the will, that's not the problem. I think the problem with them is that they don't want spatial planning documentation because of a variety of different interests not entering a policy that's on those units of local self-government and that we're just supposed to advocate that such units are, and that's my personal court if they don't bring it in within the legal time and relax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78700	Replica. Dear Representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, here's what my colleague Vukic listed all the differences between the old and new bill proposals, and here he may not have pointed out one important thing, and that's that so far the law has really stimulated only new drives, and the new drive becomes, and then one part disappears. While here's the example of us in the Holy Week a whole series of big, strong plants are spreading, production plants, and right here it's very important that they can pick up that stimulation too. As far as local self-government units are concerned, I must also say that it is not true that she stopped stimulating by taking away the profit tax. We have a whole series of companies that we have so anointed, looked after and brought here, and if the craftsmen had kept the seat, that is, according to the place of residence, because you would have Samobor or Zagreb, and also the headquarters of the company. So it's not true. The biggest incentive actually for local self-government units is employment, new employment. There's no drive that came to us without a bunch of people getting a job, if they were, clearly, if they wanted to work here. So, in fact, it still remains very much that incentive, a very big incentive. Also, the planning documentation I don't think is any more, it shouldn't be a problem, because most of it is already really in a huge percentage of local self-government units having a plan-project documentation and there's no problem on that side. The problem may be that the ministry also stimulates the construction of infrastructure in working areas because without infrastructure it is very difficult to get entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78702	Replica response, distinguished representative Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Markovanovic and I absolutely agree with you, as well as 99.9% of cases so far. Of course, the old law, you've noticed well, I think I also said in my debate that I envisioned incentives only for old companies, that the new law provides incentives for a new commercial company, the expansion of an existing company and the launch of activities that mark a fundamental change in the production or modernisation of that company, which is certainly good. And certainly, the law in that part will increase investment and it is good that the law defines that the Encouragement Act applies to both domestic and foreign investors, that it does not separate them as old law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78704	Thank you. Replica, the Honorable Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78705	Well, I'd like to use this replica to shed some light on one question so that we don't all go astray on our own. In fact, it's a matter of regional incentive. This law shall enter into force on 1 January of the following year if we adopt it. Now, the Investment Encouragement Act provides for regional support under the State aid Regulation until it adopts rules on regional aid to be regulated by another regulation. At the same time, the assumption of the application of the rules in regional state aid is the existence of a regional State aid map in view of the period set out among other Stabilisation and Association Agreements. And since the Republic of Croatia was under category and this has expired we do not even have a map of regional support. And in such a situation, one important thing that will need to be done for the implementation of this law is to draw up a map of regional support and therefore to adopt existing regulations and rules that can be implemented. And in such a situation, it is not enough to discuss only from the aspect of a single unit of local self-government, but from the aspect of the regional aspect of the development of the Republic of Croatia through regional development and, of course, to indicate encouraging measures to find individual units of local self-government. This is all I was going to say in the replica just so we don't get in a position to be mistaken. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78706	I didn't see it. The answer to the replica, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78707	I agree with you absolutely, and I am deeply convinced that the government will also make that regional division into incentives. Because as you said passing this law alone is not what the law could apply to a full extent. So I deeply believe both the Ministry and the Government and bring this Law on Regional Support. And this is guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution on even development.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78708	Thank you. Finally, Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, allow me a few more sentences regarding here and for your debate on which I thank you because, in most of the way, it was the support of this law that was truly particularly important. I am sorry that some were disappointed by reading that law. I'm even more sorry they're disappointed because they haven't seen the novelties. And the novelty really is in this law, and it's very important, and I want to do it again. The first important and most important novelties are that this Investment Encouragement Act is primarily or exclusively towards production and development-innovation technology centres, business support, the business support centre, so that sector that has so far in Croatia and if it has investments in this sector is not our expectations, I believe that it has achieved the desired results when we talk about the level of investment. This is very important and therefore not really the fact that this government extends trade. Trade is a significant part of the economy, but this government wants to clearly extend and encourage investment in production and strengthen production as well as a prerequisite for the development of the economy as well as for increasing our exports, all that is related to production. The important other thing that is novelty in this law is that the law applies to both new companies and existing ones. Because the big remark so far has been primarily investors from Croatia who could not therefore achieve support unless a new company was launched. That new company was the only one who could achieve support. And that's the important part. I don't want to talk to the third guy. He's the most important thing to me. The same novelty is the difference in support for new jobs ranging from a thousand euros in those counties where the unemployment rate is below 10% to 3,000 where it is over 20%. And those 3,000 euros are 50% more support than the existing law could get. Under the current law, maximum support for a new job is 15 thousand kuna. And if we take when it comes to investment in technology-innovation development centres, then that support goes up to 4 and a half thousand euros. So it's significantly bigger and more than twice as much support for a new job as it was by, but it's now under the existing law. Therefore, significantly higher funds, a significantly higher number of investors who can use support and exclusively support aimed at production. This is what is particularly important and important, and I think that a lot of parliamentary MPs have debated today about the need to turn production, that we should in some way encourage industry and development, industrial production to carry out its kind of re-industry, which I think this government has been doing for three years. And also when I talked about the results of the investment in the previous year, 2005, and this year we see that we have managed without new law to reverse trend and investment because last year for the first time over 50% of investments in Croatia were greenfield investments in production. Last year, for the first time, we turned the largest number over 50% of new crafts, production crafts. For the first time, we have turned the largest number of incentives loans that this government has made possible through the entrepreneurship incentive programme were targeted at production. So the trends have turned, and this law is one of those segments of our business investment environment that we want to create in Croatia, which will direct all those investors who come from outside or who are already in Croatia to invest right now in that sector, in those segments of the economy that we want to develop more strongly. And I also want to say here, one of the biggest greenfield investments in Croatia has been mentioned, Rokul in Istria and Mr. Doric's parliamentary representative spoke about the need for coordinated work, so for exactly three years this ministry government has been working in co-ordinated, and that is why we have been able to reverse these trends. About the investments of Rokula, which is over 70m euros, which will result in 40m euros in exports of new to Croatia, several meetings were with me in the ministry with the head of the municipality, with representatives of the county, with investors and therefore all those conditions that should not only be through the support of the Government's Law on Incentives but also through building of municipal infrastructure, gas connection, road construction, etc. Therefore, this model is a matter of importance and importance, and that is why we already have the results, and this law will more clearly and more precisely determine which sector, in which ways and stronger support actually encourages investors to come to Croatia. For a year we have been preparing this law, it has been done thoroughly and with many meetings with representatives of the European Commission, many meetings in Croatia with all the competent institutions, many tours of all countries in the environment, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, wanting to create conditions that are competitive with these countries, because all countries want to attract investments to themselves. We have made a law that is absolutely competitive, which therefore ensures that we deal equally with all these countries in the environment, but which is also combined in the strategic framework of Croatia's economic development 2007-2013. It is not true that we do not know where Croatia is going, which strategy also has all the industrial policies that are important and that we want to develop strategically in Croatia, which we also want to help in some way to restructure these projects, and industrial policies are in the final phase of the Ministry of Economy in Construction, by the end of the year it will be made when it comes to textiles and when it comes to auto parts, when it comes to metal-processing industry etc. etc. So we know which way we're going. This road has already been launched, and this one, this law I would say should look into the context of many things that should be done and activities to create a complete situation in Croatia that suits investments by any domestic investor, whether foreign. It's not just the Investment Encouragement Act. It is mentioned here that it can attract or give the investor arguments to come to Croatia to invest and according to the current law, the deadline has come to Croatia. He came because he was a coordinated action of all the bodies, all the ministries, because he saw what was happening in Croatia, and this is about the administration of HITRO.HR project, hence reducing all administrative processes, and we are also the Investment Encouragement Agency after a number of years of staff teamed, it is with 30 people a guide to every investor in Croatia through local self-government, through all the bodies of the state administration, and I think that this is what should happen in the coming years and will happen in Croatia, so complete coordination and also a series of activities from the Ministry to the Investment Promotion Agency, to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, all together with the units of local self-government should participate in these projects. Specific results such as Rokul on behalf of such investments in both Istria and Varazdin show far more that only such a model and way can achieve the results we want, and these are concrete greenfield investments. What I want to say for the end is another important segment that is assuming this law or which is supposed to actually create a favourable environment for investors is a project of the great Croatian, this Croatian government, which is building political zones. The land support was mentioned here in line with all the rules and legal property of the European Union, so it does not enter, and cannot be used for incentives, but, so the Croatian Government is investing together with local self-government units in the creation of the assumption that the investor's land, parcels in... The zone is not expensive and is not something to be put on or to be encouraged by. [[You don't understand.]] We now have over 250... The zone in Croatia that is being built, these are locations for all these investments that we want to attract with an average land price of 5.6 euros, 6 euros per square metre. [[You don't understand.]] It is an extremely favourable price, and it is one of the preconditions that we create to attract investors to get cheap land, but that through these other incentives we actually attract employment because employment is primarily targeted, a priority thing that we want to achieve through this law. I also want to say that here mentioned in several debates about tourism. I think tourism is an important economic branch of Croatia, but that tourism not only has its own resorient ministry but it also has special incentives and I think that in this programme, and in this promotion it speaks of, I think it is not neglected, but that this is a very special sector and segment of the Croatian economy that has its incentive programmes, strategic development goals and I think that it will continue to work in this direction and so far. What I would also like to mention here and say, the Law on the Encouragement of Investments or a Programme for the Construction of Political Zones, a Programme for the Encouragement of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship, Human Policy and Strategy for the Development of Textile Industry, the Restructure of Textile Industry, the Restructure of Black Metalurgy, Shipbuilding, all of which is one set of concrete measures that should be in place for Croatia, faster development of the economy, increasing employment, strengthening and exports of Croatian without industrial production, growth of industrial production, without investment with new technologies and export-oriented as an example of Rokula, etc. We can't do that. In order to establish all these elements of coordination, I will mention this occasion although it is not directly related to this law in any way, but the programme which under the working material and project is being prepared by the Croatian export offensives contains all segments and this law as a premise for strengthening Croatian exports to this project includes all the institutions and associations of exporters and the Chamber of Economic, crafts, Association of Employers, concrete entrepreneurs, exporters. Therefore, this government is preparing a series of measures to create what we all expect in Croatia, which is encouraging measures for the development of the economy, encouraging measures for investment growth, encouraging measures for export growth and all that we want to achieve in order to have a strong and stable economy, and this is also a prerequisite for the growth of the standard of living of every man, and this is a clear assumption for the growth of employment in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78710	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed vice president of the House, Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78711	Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you said two thesis that brings you to a clear contradiction, and among other things, you said we have an economic strategy, economic policy, we have all industrial policies, and that's exactly what I want to fix, and we don't have them because after that, you yourself said in further exposure that they're in the final stage of production and that we're going to have them. So either they're in the construction phase, so we don't have them, or if we have them, they can't be the stage of production. So, you are yourself in conflict with yourself, and I ask you, once already done, these jobs in the ministry, that certainly the Government of the Republic of Croatia direct a proposal for an economic strategy with the economic policy, industrial policies of this Parliament, that the Parliament be informed as the most representative body of Croatian citizens and Croatian peoples in this regard, to find out where it is going. Thank you very much. ... Mrs. Babic, sometimes it's good to keep quiet, it's easier to understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78712	Now there's going to be a break and you're going to have to take care of it for coffee. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78713	Following what counterpart Arlovic said, it is obvious that you have a strategy only to hide it, as you did in earlier years, so it cannot reach the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78714	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78715	It's a correction, there's no strategy. So, Mr. Secretary said there was, but they're in the works. They're gone, obviously you're hiding them. So give them to us once so we can all know something about them. And the other thing, do you think, Mr. Minister, and it's incorrect, after these changes to the law, you'll hardly sell them, and that units of local self-government will give this kind of cheap land for 5 to 6 euros because it'll cost them far more when they buy them from the private and from everything else, and that's for employment. 'Cause they're gonna turn out to work for the state, and they don't get anything back from the profit tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78716	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78717	Final proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act. The amendments were submitted by the PGS, SBH and NDS Representatives' Club. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78718	Thank you. This amendment may not be accepted on the grounds that Article 2(1) is complete and in accordance with the obligations set out in Article 70. The Stabilisation and Association Agreements are in line with the relevant acquis in the field of state, regional aid and, as such, as an integral part of the proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act, it has received an earlier binding opinion from the Competition Protection Agency since 29 August 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78719	There's no proposer. There's a vote to vote on. Who's up for that amendment? No one's got the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 92 votes for, 6 abstentions, the proposed law. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78720	I suggest that the amendments vote by raising hands because it goes faster and later on about laws and conclusions to vote electronically.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78721	Okay. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, the following conclusion. The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out a revision of the text of the Law on the Encouragement of Investments before its publication in the National Journal. Can we please get involved? To vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and four abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78722	We move to the next item of the agenda, - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 586. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. I'm finishing the morning session. Continuation is at 3:00. ... And it's half past 2:00, so we'll hear it at 3:00. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At 3:00, we'll hear the opening statement of Secretary of State Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78723	We are continuing the session, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78724	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, proposes a bill on amendments and additions to the Bank Act. So, the intensity of this Law is primarily to edit a new form of credit institution, which is savings banks. The main reason and situation on the market is that we currently have 3 types of banking institutions on the financial market, i.e. on the banking market. These are banks, housing savings and savings-credit cooperatives. What we're actually introducing with this law is a new form of bank, which is savings banks. Thus, this would arrange savings banks that would have the following features as a feature. First of all, it would be stock companies. The minimum capital amount would be 8 million kuna. In this respect, the savings bank’s operations would be bank services, guaranteeing or other guarantees, lending including mortgage loans, trading of money market instruments and securities on their own behalf and for their own account. To carry out payment traffic in the country, analyse and provide information on the credit ability to represent insurance, issue and management of payment instruments, rent safes and intermediation in the conclusion of financial transactions. In relation to banks operating under, we can say, much more widely responsible, savings banks will not be able to perform factoring operations, they will not be able to carry out lying, trading money market instruments, carrying out payment transactions abroad, managing pension and investment funds, consulting on capital structure, business strategy and other issues. So, savings banks as such would not have requirements for organisation, for internal supervision, for financial control, we can also say in part regarding compliance with Basel 2 standards, etc. And of course, they had lower costs because as such they would not carry out part of the business, or they would not be at risk, as the banks carry it, we could say, large banks, or banks with large powers. Therefore, the capital requirement is only 8 million kuna and in this sense savings banks would in a certain way allow and the aim of this law is, therefore, to make the banking market competitive. So, that smaller banks appear on the banking market because we have to say, therefore, that the number of banks in Croatia has been steadily decreasing since 1997, so it's almost halved. In 1997 we had a bank number of 60, today 2006, we have 34 banks. For example, the largest 6 banks have an 81% activity. So they have a share in the total 81% activity. It is, however, a very high concentration of the banking system in the 6 largest banks and, of course, this would allow, therefore, a more efficient access to loans by citizens and small entrepreneurs. So the source of funding for small entrepreneurs, citizens, would be available through savings banks. It'd be cheaper for them. Why? Because savings banks as such would have less costs and, of course, by resolving the business of a part of savings-credit cooperatives. The intensity, therefore, is that the part of the savings-credit cooperatives that has been located so far in their savings banks and, of course, in this context to strengthen the supervision, control, accountability and security of the financial system above all. Therefore, citizens, entrepreneurs and others who will invest in savings banks will be safe because savings banks will have a greater requirement for core capital. They will also be safe because the supervision of savings banks will be carried out by the Croatian National Bank, which has developed bank supervision and in this case their supervision would be extended to savings banks and, of course, in all of this together they would eventually profit from entrepreneurs, the entire economy, citizens and, of course, what would be solved by another part of this Law, which is the part that relates to loans from pillars popularally speaking. So we expect more or less of such advertising because this Law would ensure both more quality and more transparent and orderly business for these institutions which will then have no need to go out in front of citizens and potential clients. What should therefore be stressed is that this law is in line with the acquis of the European Union. We have two sources of rights. So the European Community Treaty and Directive 12 of 2000. In this way, this law constitutes a fulfillment and obligation established by the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the Association of the European Union in 2006, and the reason for this partial harmonisation is that the institution of the Savings Bank is being regulated while the fuller harmonisation will actually happen by the adoption of the Law on Credit Institutions in 2008 and what is of course important that, by introducing this institution, this savings bank into the financial system of the Republic of Croatia creates a credit institution that will, in a faster, simpler way, meet the needs of citizens, the needs of entrepreneurs, facilitate access to credits by these entities and, of course, ensure further economic growth and economic prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78725	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? European integration? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP club, vice president of the House, respected representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78726	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state, in fact, sometimes by discussing and participating in our Parliament's work on certain issues, comes into the situation that he doesn't know whether he would laugh or cry about individual proposals or topics? One 8.9 years ago in this assembly, we had a heated discussion about how the banking system in the Republic of Croatia should be circled, how small banks should do well and allow them to stop working. Since savings credit cooperatives really shouldn't be involved in financial affairs and banking business. The savings, I don't want to talk about other than the privileged one, with a privileged position in accordance with the law, and then started a process which, as seen here, was attached in 1997 with sixty banks ending somewhere in 2006 at 34 banks. On the other hand, it cost 60 billion to the Republic of Croatia to resuscitate the banking system, Kuna. On the side that after that these same banks were privatized and that we were somewhere a quarter of the funds invested in their resolution and structure pulled back and... the losses of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, these same foreign banks are now pardoned by our foreign-owned banks, in fact, ultimately mortgaged on the largest part of the real estate or capital of companies that were privatised and converted because through loans to purchase these same companies, they actually pawned these buyers from these banks and pawned them. And that we come to the impossible situation then that the same banks when the privatisation and conversion process was opened say that they cannot be audited because they are privatised under special laws and it is not really just about wanting to cover up how they are privatised, it is even more eager to hide and prevent the public from gaining insight into how they participated in the privatisation of all other companies in the Republic of Croatia. So aside from leaving it all behind, but then I remember there were many of us from the opposition who spoke and warned that by rounding up the banking system, a big one is being created, if we can say so, a zone, a hole that can hardly be covered. It is related to the monitoring of small entrepreneurship, craftsmanship and of course small master initiatives. We warned then that large banks would not be able to deal with this quality. And secondly, that some of the things that are going to happen with us will be a little bit unnatural as they were. So with all the resolution, then we had special allocations from the budget to HBOR, HKBOR to encourage and develop small entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. Then at that stage, because the law had not yet been changed because of the country's monopoly of the banking-financial lobby, it could not directly give HKBOR credit as a state bank, but it had to do so through business banks, and the commercial banks were these very large banks that then actually approved both loans and projects and on state budget money or taxpayers additionally charged a very, very high price of capital or interest paid by our taxpayers and so on. To the side of it all. But now the question is, there's something else that's happened. That a large number of our citizens were saving, civil, legal persons invested and had money starting with the New Bank, County Bank, South Bank in Vinkovci, Cibalia Bank, and that we do not list everything there to the Dubrovnik Bank that these people were left without money except those guaranteed 100,000 kunas that were actually paid to them on, from the title of the state budget or even more specifically from the title of taxpayers... The bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That many of these banks under bankruptcy still work and have in their account money among other these savings, bankruptcys do not end and at the same time we finally come into a situation that... that the economy cannot be so monitored by the banking system and that the flow of our economy called the banking and finance, which takes place through banking-financial transactions, which goes through money, must be put into function of economic growth and development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is good not only because it is in line with the European Union but this is a alignment with the needs of the Croatian economy to start creating small and medium-sized banks that will be accompanied by small craftsmen, entrepreneurs who will work that part. It's good to allow the creation of so-called. savings banks that could actually have a limited part of the activity in relation to all other banks, and in fact there's something completely different behind that. This allows savings-credit cooperatives to be transformed into savings banks. We ask a question from the SDP's Club of Representatives and what about the possibility of small banks being created that should normally work on the market, which could follow this according to the same criteria and conditions as they do now in the future or which will do savings banks in the future. This question just hangs in the air. That's the first one. Second, we would like to warn both in principle and individually about this law or this law. It is said here that the savings bank is a financial institution that has been approved by the Croatian National Bank and established as a shareholder company based in the Republic of Croatia and operates in accordance with the Banks Act. You see, as soon as the company is a company, it does not only operate in accordance with the Banks Act, but it also operates in accordance with the Company Act, and it applies to banking and financial transactions to the Banks Act and other laws. Therefore, this should be very precise and explained for the simple reason we will actually come into a situation if it is treated this closely then it will turn out that again the possibility of saving banks will be the issue of bankruptcy, the question of recovery can only be opened by the National Bank. Well, it wouldn't be like that. If this is a company, then we need to open up the possibility that shareholders, that in this particular case they must also save and have a proper and legal and economic and financial position. Third. Look, it says here that these savings or savings banks like they couldn't do some of the jobs. However, I would like to remind you of the new article 177a. which says that a savings bank can perform the banking services referred to in Article 3 of this Act, by the way, be told this law is written in a capital letter and is referring to this law. Not the law on banks, but actually the provision he's referring to is the law on banks. It's simply the nomotechnical illiteracy of those who do this law. Therefore, it should be written here in a small letter of the law or written by the Bank Act, and then it is known exactly. Why? Because Article 3 of this Act simply states that Article 4 behind point 3 is to add point 4 which reads: “A savings bank that is granted approval from the Croatian National Bank for the provision of these services.” That is not true, because the contents of the bank's work are prescribed in Article 3 and not in this law, but in the law that changes and complements it, by the way. However, what is important to note is that a new paragraph 2 is quite justified that the savings bank, other than the banking services referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, may provide other financial services if it is granted from the Croatian National Bank for the provision of such services. We'd like to give this fact a very serious warning. A discretionary assessment shall be given to the Croatian National Bank for the provision of activities to individual savings banks, thereby bringing it to entities, certain entities or some member of a savings bank in a financial market in an unequal position or to establish a monopoly position. If you want to give such an authority or such... the legal delegation to the National Bank may then be told but the law must lay down the conditions and criteria when, in accordance with this law, this activity referred to in paragraph 2 may be further approved by the National Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can't be her discretionary right. The National Bank shall, under the National Bank Act, take into account the financial stability and stability of prices on the market as a major task. So this isn't her job. That's number one. Number two. If this can be given by the National Bank, I would also like to remind again this Law on Banks as well as the National Bank Act is an inadmissible practice introduced in the Croatian Parliament, in Croatian legislation that we are narrowly interpreting constitutional standards. Why? Because, according to all the solutions made by the National Bank, there is no right to appeal, but there can be a dispute. You see, the Constitution says that any solution to the governing body or bodies with public authority must be a complaint. The appeal may exceptionally be limited to the conduct of an administrative dispute. Why? Among other things, that the procedure, in the administrative procedure, can establish the principle of material truth, collect all facts and all data, etc. And it's not good to give someone a discretionary assessment, and to rule out the right to appeal precisely because of this principle of material truth. Of course, in this context, there are still some questions that are quite interesting to us. So we in principle support to allow savings-credit cooperatives to become, become savings banks, but we ask that it be perceived, arranged properly. Now that the issue of principle is also about concrete amendments to the law. For example, in Article 15, paragraph 1, Article 182 paragraph 1 will replace the provisions concerning the infringements from 30 000 to millions of kuna. Or let's be exact, that means that those first 500 thousand are being replaced by 30 grand and now the range from the lowest penalty for the offense to the highest to the million kuna is actually very large. But the whole provision of that article did not agree with each other. So then you have an absurd situation that in that same article you now have an additional item, for example three, so it's said that the bank will be fined in a fine of 50 to 100 thousand kuna. And now look, all of a sudden this lowest penalty of 50 to 30 thousand kuna is not, for some sort of banal thing here will be increased to 50 thousand kuna, and for the most serious violations there can be at least 30 thousand kuna. The second question is how much is really going to be said, but the minimum possibility is 30,000. Therefore, it must be agreed and this must ultimately be resolved as must this issue be resolved so that for the infringement referred to in paragraph three for which the bank and then the savings cooperative, the savings bank can bet on 50 to 100 thousand kuna. That's where the responsible person is going to be punished with a thousand to five thousand kuna, which is actually a symbolic punishment. It can't be. It should also be noted that this Article 2 and concerning all infringements from one to 44 paragraphs 1 for which a fine of 30 thousand to one million kuna is now prescribed remains a provision now in paragraph 2 that the responsible person in such cases will be punished for the banking affairs of members of the administration from 10 to 50 thousand kuna. So you can't punish a legal person with a million kunas because of the financial malfeasances they had as a result of bringing into bankruptcy, for example a savings bank, and leading to many savings being left without money, and that a responsible person will not enter this offence, I'm talking about breaking responsibility with only 10 grand maximum to 50 thousand kuna. Obviously, there is something wrong with the proportion of these penalties, and it should be further corrected and arranged if, of course, we want to provide a guarantee and a credit, bank credit job compared to those we really need to provide a service. These are natural and legal persons, our citizens and legal entities on the ground. One more remark related to Article 177 C.E. He's completely incomprehensible. It states, in addition to the provision of Article 177a to 170a of this Act, the other provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly to savings banks. Again, in terms of writing with a big letter. Regulations adopted under this Act and other regulations, and if this is the case, so that 177a to 177a will not apply, but the other provisions of this Act will apply. And that's what it says. And actually the measure of the provisions that apply to savings banks is this law. This provision should therefore be made very clear to you that the provisions, other provisions of the National Act, on banks should also be applied adequately to savings, i.e. savings banks. Therefore, that part must be significantly, significantly improved. And one more thing we'd like to emphasize in particular. You know, when it comes to laws like this, no matter what he should start to apply on January 1st. We believe that it is not good, although it is in line with the European Union, that it is not good for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure. It is that law enforcement obligations fall on the burden of actually thirds, outside the state administration and the system, i.e. on savings banks, on savings to be transformed. In addition, in the very provision of Article 16, we say that within 3 months of receiving the authorisation that they can do so, they will have to comply with their regulations. Thus, by that nature, things do not need to be an emergency procedure, but they need to be prepared as quickly as possible and others. And here, something else needs to be prescribed, where the National Bank has to carry out these actions in order to actually save banks, savings-credit cooperatives can be transformed into savings banks in order to be able to do their part of the job, other than that principled position arising from the Administrative Procedure Act, so that the National Bank can do so within 60 days. But the problem is, what if she doesn't? There's no measure against the National Bank. And you know, in the business of the economic system, they suffer the adverse consequences of those to whom it applies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78727	Thank you. The word on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community has a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78728	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This law, the new Law on Savings Banks, perhaps, and probably related to the business procedure, should have been discussed at the same time with the new Credit Union Act. In fact, both of them are completely intertwined. They come from the legal legislation that operates in the present time and also from institutions that have existed so far and still exist, because until the application of one law and another. Therefore, the adoption of this law implies that we will also pass this next law. It should also be said in the end that we also support this extension because it is about harmonising the transition or transforming each other, so it is a technical issue and I think it will be settled until the application of this law. It is worth saying about the starting point of both and other something when adopting or proposing this law, what has actually happened to us so far in a banking or financial so-called. sector. I will recall very briefly that this history goes back as far as the new Croatian state, and a little longer than that, that the Law on the banks of the former Yugoslavia has actually begun the process of transforming banks and experiencing everything we have experienced so far in this sector of banking with the most difficult, with the various most difficult consequences for our citizens, the loss of property and great values, trauma and everything that this process of transforming banks from nobody to now, and mostly foreign hands. That reason, therefore, sometimes threatens to know that foreign interests are not always and domestic, however, that they are often diversifying to suggest that it is necessary then to pass other accompanying laws so that we can respond to some of these challenges. In this regard, we remind ourselves that the current savings-credit cooperatives then the savings and banks were legally regulated, harmonised and changed on several occasions, and that today we also identify this structure that we find in one area and another, as well as the problems that were caused by the traumas in the savings sector, the savings sector. I'll remind you, I don't feel like I'm making any mistake here's the last source case. It was before that, I don't know, here in Zagorje, and I don't know what happened to those savings that were experiencing similar problems. Then they primarily stemmed from poorly regulated status, over-rule management, poor surveillance and everything that was happening in that area, and the inability to intervene in advance to prevent such traumas from happening. And here's one way of saying that savings banks will also come from transforming savings-credit cooperatives or savings banks. But on the other hand, it won't threaten anyone to start the same new banks. Therefore, the answer is that we absolutely have a goal, and later we will see that one of the goals is to include domestic capital, as well as private persons as these are different forms of interesting associations that are listed there. In that sense, this transformation and a possible new form of banks then gives the opportunity to take on those extended deadlines that I will later set along with the second point that they can actually be harmonised in time, because it is necessary to make decisions in their congregations and decide in which direction they will go further. Therefore, this normal legal solution was too short to apply from 1 January. We have practically already through the amendments through the next point as committees suggested that these deadlines move. For this reason, there will be plenty of time left to make decisions in the congregations, so that it can decide on the following status and that it can also decide on how to manage later, that is to say, supervision in these savings and savings banks. We've already seen problems with the banks that I have, regardless of what we've had in these areas. Fission and fusion I would say freely in this sector, but we also see the problems we have. One of these fundamental problems that today 6 seems to me to be holding the bank somewhere over, says about 81% of the capital, and that the two largest states are even 41% of the capital. It's not bad. But if that capital and that interest of those owners would not often be contrary to the interests of our people, or savings translated, because when we speak and the debt of the population we see that 80 and some billions, some say 90 billion by the assessment of the debt refers to the citizens, and on the other hand, the assessment is that about 120 billion of that capital is on savings and, of course, the banks and those owners decide what they will do with that capital. So in this sense, new models are left to be able in a new way and in a different way, and I would say freely interpolate into this banking system a new model that would then allow us to engage in something more favourable through these bad or unfavourable experiences so far. The technical details of the core capital, the way and the rest have already been presented here in the ministry's explanation. I just want to say one more time and confirm that we believe that the adoption of this law and the next law would really allow these new financial institutions to ensure a faster and simpler way of meeting the needs of citizens and small entrepreneurs for... financing, but also saving and carrying out payment traffic except in those segments that we have heard of them being defined. [[You don't understand.]] So here is another possibility that I would say free new and homely way can start the process of saving and making private capital available in Croatia, and thus would respond to all these remarks which have so far been applied to the banks from their duties, from their interest in our space, etc. Here we see only two or three notes through an enhanced system of control and supervision of these banks, that, in fact, much better and better quality than so far, allows for control and internal surveillance when it comes to it, but also about reviewing and all forms of supervision that ultimately provides for the CNB. Of course, and last week, we passed the CNB Act, asked again the question and questionable role of the CNB, whether it is capable or not, or what if it does not answer that way. We hold that, however, and the CNB is obliged to re-coordinate its decisions that will be related to this law, we hold that the CNB can better carry out such supervision so that more, to avoid actually those situations and traumas that savings-credit cooperatives during the night or savings overnight disappeared without actually being able to intervene and could not act on that system. That is why we hold that this law is always said to comply with European legislation, and that these technically small, tiny supplements can still be implemented in the course of the debate, in particular we will ask, our club to extend the deadlines for harmonisation to adapt to the possibilities and thus respond to this biggest challenge. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law as well as the next one we will explain briefly again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78729	Thank you. We're moving on to individual. The club of representatives of the CNS, the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78730	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is positive that finally the government has made a decision and has finally decided to edit this segment of the economy more so than the interest rate and other forms of illegal lending have developed today so much that there are almost no pillars in major cities and settlements in Croatia that are not glued to ads, which offer credit to citizens with only number of mobiles. It is of course a grey economy behind which mostly savings-credit cooperatives are behind and which, by this legislative proposal and the law on savings-credit unions, should be legalised and orderly introduced to the end in that segment of the economy. Amendments to the Bank Act normably establish that a financial market, a new financial institution, is a savings bank. The savings bank is a company of capital founded as a shareholder company that operates according to banking principles, but with a smaller volume of transactions compared to the bank. A savings bank other than bank services may provide other financial services if it is granted from the Croatian National Bank. The minimum amount of the underlying capital needed to establish a savings bank of 8 million kuna and the guarantee capital of the savings bank shall not be less than the minimum amount of the underlying capital. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Banks are complemented by the application of other existing provisions of the Banks Act, the regulations adopted under that Act and other regulations governing the operations of banks in an appropriate manner. In this respect, the application of the infringement provisions of the Bank Act also extends to savings banks and also to provisions on the security of savings roles, supervision, control of the management of the savings bank, which fully ensures the legal certainty of the committee. In relation to the operations of former savings-credit cooperatives which were supervised by the Ministry of Finance, which failed to fulfil their obligations and which enabled major irregularities in the work and major losses to cooperatives, which were mostly not business-related to the cooperative, except for savings which were not secured. The proposal to amend and supplement the Banks Act seeks to provide a legal framework for those savings-credit cooperatives that have long ceased to operate on the principle of reciprocity so that they can be transformed into a savings bank. The business of savings banks should allow faster and easier access to financial services for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are numerically dominant in the Croatian economy. The savings banks should ensure further development of the banking market with a view to promoting competition and preventing the possibility of the concept of monopoly and the stability of market participants. As a result of the absence and non-application of financial criteria, occasional bankruptcy and affairs occurred and related criminal actions and frauds resulting in the loss of savings assets, a fall in trust in financial institutions and the rule of law. The most famous cases are the Virovitica Savings and Credit Cooperative "Cekin" from Varazdin about 35 million kuna losses and many other losses in other savings-credit cooperatives for which no one has yet corresponded or corresponded to the responsible persons in these savings-credit cooperatives. However, no one in the Ministry of Finance has fully failed to control and oversee the legality of the business that was legally binding. The Croatian People's Party club will support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78731	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78732	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks is another law that is in line with European Union rules and whose adoption is foreseen by the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in 2006, so here I support its adoption by an urgent procedure. One of the reasons for the addition of the Banks Act is the current picture of the situation on the banking market of the Republic of Croatia, where we now have on the one hand banks which are in the permanent process of taking over and attaching, and on the other hand, savings-credit cooperatives that are limited to the level of underlying capital and whose activity is regulated by a special law. When I mentioned the banking process, I thought that since 1997, when there were 60 banks by 2006 when there were 34 banks, so they fell by 26 banks. Or that the bank's capital has concentrated in the vaults of the six largest banks. Their share in the total activity of the banking sector was up to 81% this year, and as you could see from the material provided, the 2 largest banks, Zagrebacka and the Business Bank have about 41% of the total banking assets. This tendency to round up banking capital and the fact that banks are heavily owned threaten to create monopoly on the banking market. As a result, this law opens up the possibility of reshaping current savings-credit cooperatives that have been sufficiently strengthened in savings banks and establishing new savings banks that would be operating as a stock company on banking principles. Saving banks could be established by domestic capital and, as small banking institutions, they could, in a faster and simpler way, meet the needs of citizens and small entrepreneurs for banking services, from lending savings, carrying out payment traffic to opening a business account. This would enable savings banks to participate in the domestic capital market, strengthen competition and reduce the ability to create monopolies, and, on the other hand, more effectively meet the requirements of small entrepreneurs and citizens for financial resources and ensure the stability of their funds. Simply put, this bill enables the creation of a new form of financial institutions, savings banks, regulates their way of setting up, activities that can be dealt with, the level of underlying and guaranteed capital, and how to control, audit and risk management. Other provisions of the law and of the regulations accompanying it shall apply in the same way as in the case of banks. Finally, the law also provided for the amount of fines applicable to savings banks in the event of infringements committed and provided for a procedure for the harmonisation of payment transactions in recasting and savings-credited cooperatives. In accordance with my opinion, I support the proposed amendments and additions to the Bank Act. I believe that there will be a better, more complete arrangement of this part of financial services and markets and that it will be ensured, i.e. that one additional security and stability will be given to its participants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78733	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78734	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that we have an increasing concentration of banking capital present on the Croatian financial market. In terms of numbers, 82% of the total assets of banks are present at 6 banks, of which 2 largest banks have about 41% of the total assets. This fact alone led to a reduction in the number of banks, so in 97, we had 60 and 2006. 34 banks. However, the reason why this Act is also adopted is among other things undefined status and the position of current savings and credit institutions where the introduction of a savings bank as a new credit institution would allow existing savings and credit cooperatives that have outgrown certain normative frameworks to continue to grow and develop smoothly. It would also allow faster and easier access to financial services for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are not so much of their total balance but who are dominant in the Croatian economy and on which we plan to build future growth and development of the Croatian economy. In addition, savings banks would contribute to strengthening competition with a view to preventing the development of monopoly on the banking market, given the marked trend of rounding. Saving banks, therefore, would represent small credit institutions. We can expect it to be established with domestic capital and thus allow for the redistribution of the banking services market. This enables, therefore, the creation of a credit institution that would in a faster, simpler way meet the needs of citizens of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs for sources of funding. It would also allow savings, payment traffic and business account management. The savings bank is a company of capital founded as a shareholder company. It would fully comply with the banking principles with the projected minimum capital of 8 million kuna, which can already be a significant potential for a single financial institution that can monitor both small and medium enterprises in any case and the population. In accordance with all of this, therefore, savings-credit cooperatives that will meet the conditions laid down by this law would allow for growth into savings banks, and therefore business in accordance with the rules of the banking profession, and therefore I think that this law is welcome, so I will, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78735	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague that this will also reduce the possibility of monopoly in the banking sector, but that is why I would ask you and the promoter and all of us here a question which is why, in Article 177(b), the possibility that these savings banks also have preferential shares in their capital. I mean, I don't get it, maybe you do, because that way, it would improve the fight against monopoly because the fact is that by this law we allow banks to have a 25% stake in the underlying capital of privileged shares. In savings banks, we simply forbid it. We know what the difference is, or at least I suppose most of us know the difference between regular and privileged shares, but if we really want to be in line with Europe, I would ask that then the Proposer declares that I am not quite convinced or perhaps wrong, but that will tell me that this is in line with European rules. Why and these savings banks that have minimal capital, which doesn't mean that one good part of them won't have far more than a minimum amount. Why aren't they given the possibility of privileged shares because then we would, then we could say it's a fight against the monopoly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78737	Replication response. Oh, no. All right. Replica, the esteemed representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78738	Mr. Vice-President, I'm going to replicate what Mr. Honorable colleague did not say, and that this Law and the adoption of this Law really stop at the end and the criminal actions that have been committed, which have been done through the savings cooperatives to amend the law and by allowing 2002 when the law is amended and deleted from the legal provisions that should not be delivered to the annual financial report, but only having to be approved to the competent authorities of the Ministry of Finance if they come into control of the status and documentation, therefore, strange things have happened that have resulted in the poverty and theft of our citizens, and therefore, by supporting these legal provisions, it is good to see that there must be a basic capital, but also that how much the underlying capital of that bank must be guaranteed capital of the savings bank that will be formed and that will work. It is also good to see that there are approvals for work, control, audit, task of internal audit, all defined, and it will no longer happen as it happened in Virovitica, and we have heard in other parts that citizens have lost their roles, without their savings for many years because it has been appropriate to someone and someone has deliberately changed the law in 2002 to make it possible to allow all these illegal acts to happen to the law, but from that we will speak when further legal proposals are made in concrete cases, we will say when Minister Churchvenac changed and proposed a new Law on Saving Cooperatives where they have no obligation to submit the financial report to the annual Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78739	Thank you. Finally, Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78740	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd like to thank you for discussing all the MPs. In any case, part of the history of the banking system, which dates back to the 1990s and is partly related to the rounding of the banking system today and in fact the consequence of the situation at the time on the complete banking market is the application of the laws at the time and in this sense the consolidation of the financial system, the stabilisation of the financial system in order for the economy to grow was necessary during that period. For this effort to surround the banking system in the late 1990s, it had a certain way of making sense. It was therefore necessary to establish control and control over a very short period of time because it was necessary to ensure and enable the economy, i.e. the economy, to come to credit under the most favourable conditions possible, and unfortunately during that period in the same form of the banking system as it was developed in the early 1980s, at the end of the 1980s, and in the early 1990s it was not possible. Therefore, both privatisation and circulation of the banking system has led to the fact that today's savings are no longer going into stockings, but is being held in banks, has led to the fact that we haven't had here since the end of the 90's no more bank crises and problems, or what little has been successfully solved precisely because the banking system is stable and that is what is necessary and necessary. Of course, this Law allows for the establishment of a new form just to avoid what we currently have through savings-credit cooperatives, in order to avoid advertising by pillars and in a certain way enable small banks, or savings banks, to be legally established. Of course, savings-credit cooperatives can be transformed into savings banks, but new savings banks can also be established. So there's no gap in this law. There are clear conditions for the Croatian National Bank to establish new savings banks and, in that sense, this Law makes it very clear and clearly provides for conditions when and what conditions should be met for certain businesses to be able to carry out. First of all, I am talking about small capital, and this is also the answer to the honourable representative regarding the privileged shares because of very little capital, because the guarantee capital, i.e. the special provisions on the guarantee capital, has given up the preferential shares because the privileged shares thus allow for the achievement and payment of the dividend without profit. On such a small capital, it was simply not acceptable for such small institutions and for this reason we suggested that they could not be realised and have privileged shares. The Croatian National Bank must carry out its tasks and meet the new savings banks according to the current Bank Act, which is within 60 days so that this condition is not naturally here in the amendments and additions to this Act is already defined in the current Act. In any case, what has to be said, and about the respected MPs have already spoken about the amendments to the 2002 Law, and therefore there will be more words in the next amendment of the law which is next on the agenda, or the next new law that is on the agenda, but I would like to stress that only this year the Ministry of Finance has submitted 18 infringements, 10 withdrawals of the provisions for the work of savings and credit unions precisely because of the way they operate, and this Law wants to place them in a level playing field with other banks in line with the capital they pay, but of course it also takes away a very high responsibility, very high commitment to work. In any event, the Government remains in an emergency procedure, first of all, in order to ensure that the harmonisation of savings banks is achieved until 1st, i.e. under the second Act of Credit Unions by 1.1.2008 so that, under the new Credit Institutions Directive, they may and may have grounds for seeking a transitional period, i.e. to seek exemption, and in that sense, it is very important that this Act remains in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78741	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78742	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State! I'd be happy if your thesis was correct. That after rounding up and doing business rounding up the banking system, our stocking citizens took the money more or less to the banks. Unfortunately, from experience in the process of rehabilitating and rounding the banking system where a large number of citizens and legal persons have lost their money, it has actually led to a large part of the capital, financial capital in the Republic of Croatia still in socks and elsewhere, not in banks and if you don't believe just look at what happened in the purchase of INA shares. Most of the money has actually come out not of the banking system but from these other sources where citizens keep their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78743	From the socks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78744	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78745	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78746	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Bank Act. We've got a plate. Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go. Amendment one, Legislative Committee. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78747	I would ask you nicely to vote first on whether we will have a regular procedure or go through an emergency procedure. You have our proposal to conclude that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78748	That doesn't. It's P.Z.E. and thus it has already been established that an emergency procedure has been applied. ... The Legislative Committee? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78749	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78750	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second, the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78751	The government accepts the amendment, noting that the risk of externalisation is therefore the word rather than the business of adding words, so it is a grammatical error that has been subdued in this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78752	Okay. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Representatives Ruža Tomasic, Tonci Tadic, Pero Kovacevic and Pejo Trčević, amendment three.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78753	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The Directive therefore provides that the European Union Directive relating to credit institutions allows the introduction of the form of a savings bank as a national credit institution, subject to certain conditions such as the restriction of business only in the territory of the State of establishment of such an institution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78754	Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78755	We disagree with the government's argument. It's actually about an outrageous disorder of reciprocity. Croatia therefore prohibits its savings banks from establishing branches outside but calmly allows foreign savings banks to establish branches with us. We actually want that law item deleted, that our future savings banks are equal to Europeans. I demand the vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78756	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fourth, HSU's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78757	He doesn't accept the government's amendment. The reason is that the proposed text of this amendment is not acceptable because the savings bank has a lower amount of underlying capital than banks, i.e. 8 million kuna and according to the Company Act, the holders of the preferential shares have the right to the guaranteed amount of dividend regardless of the profits achieved. Therefore, regardless of the results of the savings bank’s operations which could result in a risk of insolvency and cash flow and influencing the bank’s further operations or the withdrawal of labour authorisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78758	Let us have a different view of this situation, stay with our opinions, but we will retreat, not to bother.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78759	Amendment four withdrawn. Fifth, Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78760	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment. So it's just that a reduction in capital could have... Preferred shareholders could result in insolvency threats and the monetary authority and the work of the savings bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78761	We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6. MPs Ruža Tomasic, Tonci Tadic, Pero Kovacevic and Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78762	The government doesn't accept the amendment. This provision concerns the harmonisation of the conduct of payment traffic by the Savings Bank, which was created by the transformation from the Savings and the extension of the time limit for carrying out payment traffic, is not necessary because that bank will not be able to carry out that activity before it is brought into line with the rules governing payment transactions or obtaining its number in the payment system as the Saving Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78763	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78764	Mr. Secretary of State, the transition from a savings-credit cooperative to a savings bank is actually a transition from a savings-credit cooperative to a stock company. You need people to gather, you need to make a meeting with them. We need to see if people want to become shareholders, it's a brand-new model. Of course, the large banks that came from Austria today to Croatia's Volksbanka, Reifeisen, Erste began as craftsmen's savings banks, moved to savings banks and today they are here in Croatia. We think it would be good for Croatian craftsmen to turn into savings banks, but give them time to consolidate. That's the problem. ... Thank you, Mr. President. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I beg you kindly, colleagues from the HNS be polite. The problem is that this government is conducting a transition from savings and savings banks and for now they have a special status in the Banks Act. But some other government, some other finance minister can decide out of the clear peace to erase that special status, to level them with other banks in Croatia until they are consolidated and to actually choke them. For these reasons, HSP will propose its declaration next year to protect future savings banks, so craftsmen who want to become savings banks from such moves until they are consolidated. So it's crucial time, so kindly please agree on a little longer time to register craft savings as savings banks. It's about turning into a stock company. They have hundreds of members and it's not that simple. Mr. President, I kindly ask you to vote on our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78765	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? With 82 votes for, 7 abstentions, 11 against the proposed decision... The law along with the amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78766	We move to the next - Final proposal of the Credit Union Act, emergency procedure - first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 585 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78767	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the Credit Unions Act to regulate the business of today's savings-credit cooperatives. In the previous debate, there were a lot of mentions of savings-credit cooperatives which are specific financial institutions whose business is actually based on the mutual exchange of its members' funds, respecting their common interests and the principle of mutual assistance. What is important to say in this part that unfortunately today's situation by amending the law in 2002 is that part of the reciprocity actually disappeared and, of course, savings-credit cooperatives have become and function as capital companies and are actually not legitimately located in the system, so they are not legally covered as other capital companies. Therefore, the proposal for this law goes in this direction but also goes in the direction that it is necessary to regulate this form of an institution in accordance with the legal property of the European Union in a way that the credit unions are exempt from the application of the rules on credit institutions, which means the insolvency rules, manage the risks implemented through Basel 2 of the Regulation. In this regard, of course, it should be said that Basel 2 is the regulation, i.e. the provisions of Base 2 in a specific way, to be applied to banks and credit unions would be excluded in that sense. What is, of course, necessary and very important is that this law is passed in order to ensure that credit unions, as I said earlier, are in line or start functioning by 1.1.2008 and that, of course, they can seek exemption from the application of the Credit Institutions Directive. The Republic of Croatia today operates 124 savings-credit cooperatives with a total activity of 1.5 billion kuna. Today's law, although established as I have stated the principle of mutual interest, other provisions are insufficiently governed by the very implementation of basic principles and what is important, therefore, that the institution of the savings-credit cooperatives in most cases has deviated from the basic principle of business and in certain cases business represents a savings-credit cooperatives representing an institution through which it is achieved through a high, indeed high interest rates on deposits and, of course, at the expense of high interest rates on loans and certain other benefits, a high contribution which is important to say to individual members. Therefore, certain savings-credit cooperatives have an effective interest rate of over 100%, an effective interest rate on certain loans over 100%, and we know that in this case they are citizens in a difficult social situation from which, although there is a interest law that prescribes that interest rates cannot be greater than 19%, they do so in a way that they give 12% credit to citizens and certain craftsmen but charge an annual fee of, say, 30% of the credit value. And of course, by collecting fees they avoid and bypass part of the interest law which, of course, the supervision of the Ministry of Finance sanctions but it is impossible to 124 savings-credit cooperatives permanently follow. And in this sense, it is very important to return to this way that part of the reciprocity that this law tries and achieves and thus achieves the basic objective and principle of business of savings-credit cooperatives. Also, since the approach by membership of savings and credit cooperatives is a very simple payment of the cooperative share of 1 kuna, the savings and credit cooperatives towards the legal acquired represent credit institutions. What happened to such institutions that could not comply with the credit institutions' directives? They were simply erased. For example, Slovenia has abolished the savings-credit cooperatives and there are none there. They're literally wiped out. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia gives a chance and this law allows those who cannot become savings banks to have a place where they can operate as a credit union. Therefore, the subject matter of this law is the regulation of a new form of credit union whose business is based on the achievement of the common interest of members and the primary objective of the business of the credit union is to meet the needs of the members of the credit union through the approval of credit and the receipt of deposits but not solely in one direction. The characteristics are therefore credit unions that they only operate as members, business only with members, they can be natural persons who have residence in the Republic of Croatia, natural persons, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, membership of a credit union are based on a particular principle, employment with the same employer, belonging to a particular profession or profession, residence in a particular area, so regional self-government, capital is at least 500 thousand kuna and is made up of cooperative shares. Credit union transactions exclusively for members and in domestic currency. Therefore, they receive cash deposits, approve loans, carry out exchange transactions, grant money aid, guarantee the obligations of individual or credit union members. The name of the credit union has been proposed for the following reasons. So, the name of savings-credit cooperatives has no tradition because it's actually been applied since '98. A year. The word is unacceptable because or its form because the goal of membership in such an institution is not to save but to support each other or to interact with each other. Deposits or savings are not secured by the State, so they are not secured by the State as is the case with the institutions that are under the Banks Act, so banks and savings banks after the respected home adopts amendments and complements of the Banks Act. Negative perception of the public through the identification of interest rates. So you don't have to waste a lot of words there. We also mentioned pillars, we mentioned high interest rates, we mentioned various fees. So, through all these ways, there was a negative perception of savings-credit cooperatives in the public. And what is very important, therefore, is that most European Union countries use the name credit union. The main objective, therefore, is the equality of all members and the application of the same criteria and conditions for all members, the financial stability of business, the access of members to favourable sources of funding, the exemption from the application of the legal property of the European Union relating to credit institutions. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Those who do not wish to operate further as credit unions may or have been strengthened enough can register as savings banks or may give up on further business. It is important to say that everything in this case and after the adoption of this law and credit union, both savings banks and banks will be controlled by the Croatian National Bank. The main reason is that monetary institutions should be controlled by the central bank, which is the Croatian National Bank according to the world's best practice where credit unions are included. It is also provided for the request for exemptions, the application of Directive 12 of 2000 to the application of the credit union. Other Member States of Ireland, Austria and Latvia have also received such an exemption for this type of institution. Therefore, I repeat, the government is once again allowing savings-credit cooperatives to be transformed into credit unions because this form of savings-credit cooperatives is something that would make it impossible for Croatia to enter the European Union. Therefore, instead of being abolished abruptly at one point when Croatia would like to enter or be ready to enter the European Union by law, the previous law which was under discussion, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank Act to transform into savings banks and to operate as banks with little authority or to transform into a credit union and thus indeed return to the core objectives of the functioning of interaction within one such credit institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78768	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget is a respected representative of the Luggage.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78769	Thank you. Yes, it's because of these amendments that I've explained before, so let me briefly inform the Committee's position. We were as the parent body discussing this law and the government informed us, namely representatives of what with the credit union, not to read all the shorts I will try, and basic functions in this. There was some discussion. The discussions went about in two directions, and this was the first opinion that too short had been left for MPs to prepare thoroughly for the debate on the final proposal of the Credit Union Act. Second, in the context of the provision of Article 9(3) of the final draft law regulating who may be a member of the credit union, the opinion under which it is not necessary to list the fulfilment of one of the conditions for the right to membership in the credit union as proposed in point 4 of the abovementioned paragraph and to propose that it be deleted because the condition is exclusively one of the other, so that it can be listed there any of these. So we don't think there should be a list of all the conditions. The Committee discussed a number of amendments submitted in writing by the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the Croatian Banking Association, the Association of Savings and Credit Cooperatives, which the Committee discussed and decided to propose and propose as amendment committees. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided, by a majority, five votes for and two abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this law. And now the next amendment, exactly what was tied up before, so I want to comment briefly. Amendment 1 "In Article 18 of the final draft of the law in paragraph 2 the number "3" is replaced by "4". In fact, it seems to me to be the term of office of the chairman of the administration that was scheduled for three years and we thought it was normal to go to four years like the Supervisory Board for four years, and we propose that amendment. Secondly, in Article 79 of the final draft law in the second sentence: "until 31 March 2007. is amended and read as follows: "until 30 June 2007". That's what we've been commenting on before, with the extension of the deadline. Then, in paragraph 5 of the same article, the words "and no later than 15 April 2007" are amended as follows: "at the latest by 15 July 2007. The explanation, proposed changes, will provide savings-credit cooperatives for a long time to decide whether to continue their business as a credit union or as a savings bank, or whether to make a decision on liquidation. So we have extended the proper deadlines because by the end of the year there is a law to be passed, or applied. In Article 83 of the final draft law in the second sentence: "until 1 May 2007. is amended as follows: "1 September 2007". The proposed amendment extends the period within which the co-operative of the savings and credit cooperatives who wish to become a shareholder of the savings bank should be given a statement confirming by the public notary, etc. Therefore, we felt that these amendments could and should be intervened in order to meet most of these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78770	Thank you. The other committees don't take a word for it. So, on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78771	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is already stated in the argument that, in fact, this proposal for a law on credit unions represents, as well as amendments to the Law on banks that we have already discussed, in fact, the harmonisation of this part or the business of savings-credit cooperatives with the legislation of the European Union. By way of derogation from point (a) of point 391, the adoption and entry into force of the Savings and Credit Cooperatives Act in the second quarter of 2006 is provided for in the Chapter of Financial Services and Banking. We're two blocks behind schedule with this alignment. And now there's this big set of laws that we can't really seriously study or discuss. That the government actually wanted to coordinate the Law on Savings and Credit Cooperatives speaks in addition to the decision made by the Ministry of Finance, which was set up in March this year by a commission that was supposed to work on the harmonisation of the Savings and Credit Cooperatives Act, which included representatives of savings and credit cooperatives, and they also held two meetings and one, a worker of the new Law on Savings and Credit Cooperatives. Since this work material was not discussed, the President of the Union of Savings and Credit Cooperatives sent a letter to the Ministry bearing the date of 21 November 2006 exactly what the problem is, all deadlines are passing in order to comply with this Act. Meanwhile, the government adopted a bill that was also sent to the parliamentary procedure. We don't think it's a good way to coordinate this area, given that it's God's will to discuss it with those who are most interested, and these are the existing savings-credit cooperatives that in Croatia have 124 and that in the end their opinion is not respected. There's a lot of anxiety in people who run current savings-credit cooperatives on one side over a short period of time. On the other hand, significant jobs, talks, negotiations with existing cooperatives are to be carried out in order to make a recast decision within 3 months or if this amendment is adopted within 6 months. Because it's not just about making a decision, but it's about making some advances, which I'm going to do later through some comments and comments on certain provisions of the proposed law and say. It is said here that the intention of actually adopting the Law on Credit, Credit Union or amending the Law on Banks, which introduces a savings bank, is to restore trust in savings-credit cooperatives because of certain malversions that were in some of these cooperatives, in fact citizens have lost confidence. To say at the same time that the control to be carried out by the Ministry of Finance was not effective and we will now transfer it all to the Croatian National Bank which has so far controlled the business banks. And already on the Committee itself, and today it's been repeated that these savings-credit cooperatives had high, abnormally high interest rates, high fees as if you don't have such fees in banks. You have a formal interest rate, but you pay either a one-time fee or a multi-level fee. When you release, when you grant credit, when you put into credit circulation, and so on and so on. So it's not a rule or exception just in savings-credit cooperatives. And why do the poorest layers of the population go to borrow, or to raise, loans or loans? It's probably a problem that I can't get them anywhere else. So they report to exactly the same institutions. And now a few concrete comments and remarks. In Article 2, the credit union shall be defined as a financial institution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Today 11 savings-credit cooperatives, including crafts-saving savings cooperatives, are carrying out payment traffic on the basis of the approval of the Croatian National Bank and, if they wish, could or would continue the job should be formed into a savings bank and raise their share capital to 8 million kuna. So far, they have had to have a share capital of 100,000. So for a credit union, that increases 5 times, but for a savings bank, even 8 million kunas, and it's not so easy to get to that core capital because it should actually be paid by the founders. What could they do? Five jobs are listed, among other things in point 4. "To grant financial assistance to members of the credit union". I have to say that I don't understand, but also people who should understand and who do this work really don't know what it is? Is this some kind of grants when first, when first said, credits can be granted to members of the credit union in the domestic currency. And giving money help, is it some kind of help, donation, or what it really is is one, in this way it's not clear. In accordance with Article 5 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/35, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 of this Regulation. We'll get to that later. Yes, it's said further about the Statute, but I will only remain in this 1st paragraph. In order to say in Article 7 that the basic capital of the Union is the total amount of the membership shares. That he must be at least 500 thousand kuna. That he must be paid in full. In accordance with Article 5(5) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the amount of the maximum amount of each member of the credit union and of the associated persons shall not exceed 5 % of the total amount of the member's share. If he's at least 50 founders, then they can't have 5%, but they can only have 2%. Or if they're going to have at least 5%, then there can't be 50, but 20. So you can see that this is not exactly consistently written and that this law is clearly written in haste. Article 9 speaks of who may be a member of the Credit Union and here it is said that traders are individuals and craftsmen based in the Republic of Croatia and natural persons resident in the Republic of Croatia, and you know there are a lot of small entrepreneurs whose capital or total value of their company is far less than the value of a craft, so the question is why they can't be either sports companies or anything like that. At least paragraph 3 is not said to require these conditions listed as four conditions to be cumulative but only one of the conditions should be met, then when we go to analyse each individual point in the first one is the employee of the same employer. Why would they be in some kind of credit union? They can do it with their employer if they want it there. They belong to a certain profession. There was even a comment on whether it was going to be organized in a credit union by professional or professional craftsmen would be butchers, bakers, it would be pensioners, etc. that they live in the same area. It is later said to be an area of local, local and regional self-government units. So that's the area and the municipalities and the county or the city and the municipalities and the city and the county. So it has to be both, right? And what one actually makes no sense is to write it like that because if they're in the field of one regional self-government, then one local unit is on it. I can't be in the area of another regional self-government. And point 4. actually says that it can be all because it says that they are connected in another way that is in line with the fulfillment of the common interest. So at all these three points first then are unnecessary. They say he's accessing a credit union? A person wishing to become a member of the credit union shall, in writing, submit a request for accession to the credit union, and then, in the third paragraph, it shall be said that the approval to join the credit union shall be made by a unanimous decision of all members. What does that mean in practice? It can appear daily on fifty, one hundred people who want to become a member of the credit union and can report every day. This means that the Supervisory Board would have to hold a full session because otherwise it cannot make a decision to become a member. And then you see when I said that it was quick to write in most articles you're talking about membership, but then in article 12, you suddenly get a cooperative share, a cooperative stake. Therefore, this should be amended in Article 12. In many articles, it is said that if the law otherwise provides that the provisions of the Commercial Society Act relating to a limited liability company are then applied. In other words, the credit union is a company of commerce and then some things should either be applied as stated in the Company Act or predetermined in the law itself. So we'll move on where the terms of appointment of a member of the board are discussed. He says he's got the least mid-level training today, they say, at least according to some of the information I got. In fact, so far, it must have a high level of expertise and adequate experience. Article 18(2) states that the administration cannot have a term of office longer than three years, while at the same time the Commercial Society Act says that the administration has a term of office of five years and a supervisory board of four years. So you should say what is applied there. As far as the congregation itself is concerned, it is said who makes up the congregation. However, when it comes to decision-making, the first paragraph of Article 30 states that if more than half of all members of the congregation are present, the congregation may decide. What if members do not want to attend the congregation? It may occur that the congregation will never be held because it will never have more than half of its members. The company law regulates this so that the statute can determine what a quorum is. What if two times the congregation cannot be held? The quorum is the one who wants to attend the congregation. And so we could make more significant remarks by the end of the day, at least the time quickly. For example, when it comes to the credit union reserves in Article 37, if it has a founding role that at least 500 thousand kunas will have to achieve it, it will have to channel profits into credit reserves until they amount to 160 thousand kunas which I do not think it is, so one fifth of its founding role, which should probably be brought into line with the Company Act if we are invited to apply them. And as far as the time is concerned, I'll say only about the criminal provisions. In fact, I think that's where it should be brought together. Infringement provisions in Article 75 refer to penalties for individual infringements if the credit union does so. But for the person responsible, if he commits the offence, it'll be five to twenty-five thousand kuna. At the same time, if that responsible person works in a savings bank, they will be punished with a thousand to five thousand kuna. It should probably be harmonised by both laws. It's obvious as I said in the introduction, the law is written in haste is not consistent and is not without essential repairs suitable for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78772	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78773	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to correct this last incorrect assumption that the law was written in haste, that it is not consistent. This law is in fact a taste of those needs and safety of Croatian citizens and speaks of all the details needed to ensure their savings so that the opinion or the conviction expressed that it is written in hastily does not stand at all. If you had the opportunity, the will and the knowledge you should have made such a law a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78774	Thank you. The word on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club has a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78775	Thank you very much. I have also made a brief comment on the first law, so I will now, regardless of the assessments or the different visions of the conditions and conditions of the need to pass these laws. On the one hand, I have already said and I repeat, once again, that the adoption of these laws is necessary on the one hand for the domestic regulation and for all the unpleasant experiences and knowledge that we have had so far and try to correct it and of course, and on the other hand, because of the needs of screening, i.e. the harmonisation of acts, the law in certain areas so as not to change them over the next year. And on the third hand absolutely, so that's why as a committee, we've given the government or we're going to give it directly, and we're now giving the government the opportunity to, through our amendments, if, on the eve of any of the failures that can be more serious about these laws to comply with them, which I don't think there should be any problem if there really are serious reasons. Every law is whatever it is when it is passed, of course, when it comes to those whose field of work and life is concerned, causing certain doubts, discomforts, or remarks. So we had a request probably if we were to survey all the savings, savings-credit cooperatives so that each of them would be the status quo we have today. Of course, just for these two reasons that I've presented, we can't accept that condition. We heard that Slovenia and some other countries have no more. And according to European directives so far, and accepted, we have seen that the exemption left to Austria may be, but I am not sure whether the German Sparkasses are also famous possibly in that exemption as a basic capital and the rest. Therefore, this is now the attempt of such an exemption and the determination of our path and status in this legislation. In addition to those experiences we had, the negative experience, I'm not talking about the positive but the basis of negative experiences and what to say about the banks, and also about the savings bank, the savings-credit cooperative has so far seen a fundamental problem in governance, in control, in control, in sanctions, and in fact out of the lack of all this, there have been these tragedies, the traumas that were happening, and that it couldn't be prevented in advance, and even when it was realized that something was happening, it couldn't prevent such a phenomenon. These doubts whether the CNB will be able to control, and given the redefined status of banks and these, as well as these unions, we have left the confidence that the CNB with full confidence will... those same doubts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We could tell why the Ministry of Finance did not intervene or achieve the results, regardless of which both government and government, and we saw that they were not obliged to report in part. But on the other hand, was anyone responsible at the CNB for the bankruptcy of any bank? I'd like to see an example and a case of anyone answering. Therefore, regardless of the jurisdiction, it seems to me that here, now that we have directed the central national bank to oversee this financial sector, it will be more effective in terms of regulations and the adoption of sublegal acts, and then the use of such acts and the possibility of an up-to-date intervention to avoid all that has been unregulated in this area. Citing the number as an argument, the number of current or current capital and savings-credit cooperatives I don't think there's a need. The aim is to achieve a fundamental objective with those banks, which is either the objective or principle of mutual assistance and economic interest of those who join within. We believe that through this law it can also be achieved that through this defined core capital and the level of individual participation within it can be harmonised these tiny details so that it can and must be harmonised to achieve an exception that, in the context of adaptation and this screening with the European Commission, we can have a regulated financial market. This is another contribution, a contribution to this, and the question remains that we've also given amendments to the administration, it doesn't make sense for three years to be at least four years as supervisory. The World Trade Society Act is different, but I believe that for 4 years it can because theoretically it will never fit the same day or hour to name administration and assembly, i.e. administration and supervisory. I therefore believe that it can satisfy this, with the extensions of these deadlines that we have proposed so far, we also believe that it is a very decent time to be able to transform the current forms into new forms that we have already stated, these two laws. But also to choose for the third time that the members so far can also give up and request the return of their capital in that part, of course that they do not comply. On the potential of these doubts that the CNB, which is prescribed here, will be the deadline when and what is to be harmonised, we believe that it can do that part of the work in view of its legal obligation and that it may be more effective and in the way of reporting and controlling direct and taken direct measures that it will be able to implement preventive measures so as not to leave the possibility that the event so far I would say trauma that is most sensitive in this area. Here, with the confirmation of the need to agree on this vote and the adoption of these amendments and perhaps some other small-scale HDZ clubs, we consider it necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78776	Thank you. The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78777	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. This law, proposed by the government, actually refers to 124 savings-credit cooperatives as we called them in the late '90s with about a billion-and-a-half balance-sheet sums from the middle of this year, 11 or 12 of which were allowed to carry out and pay. Now, were all the other reasons equally present when this new regulation was proposed, or was part of the provision of payment traffic for someone also in banking, in the big banking system, and even in this law, it would no longer be known. A colleague of the Luggage has made amendments to the Committees relating to the deadlines. We haven't heard the government's position on these amendments. I suppose they will be accepted, because I would like them to be accepted because my debate is partly tied and precisely to the warning that the deadlines proposed by the law are too short if we want to reshape 124 of the current legal entities as credit cooperatives and turn them into a credit union or a savings bank to be implemented in legal peace without anxiety, alarms and panic that could then be achieved by accepting these amendments would get longer deadlines which I consider to be in the implementation of the law and the right to claim exemptions in negotiations with the European Union would not lose anything. Because if Brussels has allowed the Austrians to retain their credit unions or credit cooperatives, and we now regulate this law, I don't see why it wouldn't be possible for us either. So I'm warning you, I'm sorry, there's no secretary of state who has the right to answer, Mr. Assistant Minister, I know that the answers you know, but unfortunately the Rules of Procedure doesn't give you the right to answer that, so that's the first dilemma that's on the deadlines, the team more that 31st March next year is practically there when we adopt this law and when it's published in the People's Journal. The second dilemma is therefore tied to the payload. Payment and payment traffic in some cooperatives was not a big problem at all, because in order to carry out payment traffic they needed the consent of the Croatian National Bank and no one could manage payment traffic without it. So that part of the waste argument was obviously some of the interests of the large banking sphere or the large banking sphere to regulate it differently. And now what does this new law bring? Credit unions. 50 citizens with some interest associated with 10 thousand kunas, that's half a million kunas of founding capital, set up a credit union. I think there's a more handsome name in Croatian tradition, a credit union. A case of mutual help, you know. People make a bet, six months of money stands, then they have a right to credit, a loan without interest, a minimum interest. That's actually it. In factories, businesses are and are still operating exactly that kind of mutual assistance. The law has provisions on surveillance and winding-up conditions. It further states in its explanation that the aim of this law is to restore or create citizens' trust and to introduce order in this part of the financial market. Now I'm asking if it's true. First of all, as far as trust is concerned, I don't think a lot of citizens who have lost their money in Cekin are going to be trusted just because we're going to call one thing by another. And it seems to me that the surveillance provisions aren't enough to prevent what's going on and there will still be different Cekini savings banks and all other forms of it because capital when it goes away and the fine of 100,000 kuna disappears for a member of the board or head of the board of credit union to those who are left without money doesn't mean anything at all. Secondly, will there be order in this financial market sector? I discovered that apart from the large banks and these savings banks that we had discussed in the Banks Act just before and credit unions in Croatia, there was another financial magnet of enormous power and power both by capital by influence because no one dared to argue about it, let alone propose the law. The secretary of state mentioned at one point even shyly, ads on columns, if you noticed that. These are ads on columns where there is illegal capital on the market, the financial market. And what's in common with these ads? There's not a single name of an institution, an institution or a bank or an address that stands behind this just cell phone numbers. And they say they're giving credits without guarantees, without mortgages, whether or not his salary is charged more than 1/3, no deposits, no participation. The lowest interest, in three days' time the settled loan, the convenient Christmas, the Easter, closes the blacklist. Look, we're closing down the blacklist of those on the bank's blacklists. And that's all, that's all legal. Who's behind this credit offer? Whose money comes across the street to citizens under such conditions? I really thought that a dozen tycoons joined together and that your capital created in the gray economy was legalized in this way, but by carefully reading these texts, it says: you don't even pay the commission or the cost of the credit because it's all paid by the bank. It says the bank pays the cost of the loan. Bank loans, bank loans. What banks do these things in Croatia? Saving-credit cooperatives. No, I don't. Banks. I've been playing around and calling a few of these numbers, cell phones that are here and I've come up with a claim and I realize they're really banks. In that table, the concentration of banking capital among the top five is three. Is this about playing a regulation on the maximum increase in the credit potential that the business bank is allowed to place on the market? Is this about a capital that's actually legalized this way because it came from another market not to mention drugs or anything else? Is this done to avoid the supervision of the Croatian National Bank? And now I end with the question: What provision in the Banks Act that was under discussion 15 minutes ago and what provision of this law guarantees that tomorrow in Croatia this will no longer be? What is the competence of the Croatian National Bank is that so far it has not been able to prevent this and that, after the adoption of these two laws, it will have to prevent it. In the light of the law, there is no provision, or sentence, did the Croatian National Bank give an opinion on this bill? Whether the Croatian National Bank has any opinion on the powers it receives under this law and whether it will be able to apply the obligations it has received to credit unions to prevent this grey market. And I end up the following, unfortunately the Secretary of State has no answer from whom I could get an answer, so I ask my colleagues and colleagues together to find provisions of the Law on Banks and the Law on Credit Unions, which are now authorised by the Croatian National Bank, which order them to prevent this. And why do I have to point this out? Recently, I witnessed a family in Zagreb who had lost not only an old house in Zagorje but a Zagreb apartment where she lived because she signed with one of these contracts. A final court ruling was reached within two months in favour of the one whose cell was written here. That's when I learned that there are hundreds of judicial rulings where the Croatian judiciary judges and judges for the benefit of these lenders on this banking market, and on the other hand they tell me that this is not legal activity. So how is it possible for Croatian courts to rule in favour of these and against citizens if this is illegal activity, activity. My colleagues... I don't know, but there's no better chance than now because now these two laws are ahead of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if that's not there, I beg you, government representatives, either really show us or respond to the government's amendment to prevent this. Hundreds and hundreds of citizens fell for these offers and lost their property. I cannot accept the claim that the police or existing authorities cannot edit because they should come to a private apartment and that they cannot be reached. So how do credit users get to them? Somewhere they must once be found to sign a contract. How do courts judge their interests if they don't even appear in courts then? 124 savings-credit cooperatives with a billion-and-a-half balance capital. We are passing a special law to transform them into credit unions or savings banks, they will spend a million, 2, 3 or 5 if not more kunas of administrative costs, paper, before, to, from registrations. And there's 10 times more money on this market than these billions and a half in savings-credit unions, or cooperatives, and we don't have a law on this. They do not need to be reshape, and we will probably not ask Europe for an exception that we can continue when we are a member of the European Union. That's why I'm appealing, now both laws are ahead of us. Maybe the answers exist, maybe it's in the law, I didn't find it. I asked some friends who work in institutions that are mentioned here and say there are no provisions. This will continue to be legal. And by the way, according to Article 30. Income tax law, any kuna interest earned by these cameras should be taxed at 45%, rate 45 because it has no right to a personal deduction. 45 per cent on every penny of interest. In the first nine months of this year, the revenue of the state budget from these is 0 kuna. Credits offered here on average are 100,000 euros. Take an interest rate of 8% every 5 years and you'll get interest and a tax on income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78778	For the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Kozina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78779	Mr. President, a representative of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Proposal for a law on credit unions as a financial institution in which all members participate on the principle of mutual assistance, protecting their interest. The current legal framework of these institutions is contained in the Savings and Credit Cooperatives Act. Since none of the provisions respected certain business problems, there was a problem in terms of crime, fraud and loss of savings. In this way, trust was lost in financial institutions and generally in the legal system of the state. Credit unions in the Republic of Croatia had a certain tradition. They were before the war, they formed whether they were in the Czechs, whether by some interesting groups or by other means. Credit-saving cooperatives without differences in the problems that followed them, some have confirmed and worked and thus confirmed. We are talking about such savings-credit cooperatives that have achieved quite high capital and are doing very well. They would still like to remain in credit unions, but credit unions have quite a small range of work they are already doing, so they will be forced to turn into savings banks. However, savings banks have a very high capital that must be so I don't know how it's going to be. If it were possible for these credit unions to have a slightly lighter relationship with them and, in general, to increase the scope of their work, that would be much better. This is why credit unions have their place and we support the adoption of this law. However, in order to improve the law we have certain objections, we have also made amendments to certain articles of the law. First of all, payment transactions for craftsmen have been left out. It was also allowed to save-credit cooperatives after a dedicated elaborate and meet technical and technological conditions in the manner prescribed for banks. The limitation of the credit union to units of local self-government is contrary to the constitutional principles of the right of man relating to the flow of capital and contrary to the principles of the European Union in terms of globalisation. The legislator makes it almost entirely impossible to work quality and develop credit unions. In view of the fact that the majority of successful savings-credit cooperatives, i.e. cooperatives, which would otherwise have the greatest burden of adapting this part of the financial market to a new law, are based on the principle of working in several units of local administration and self-government, will prevent not only a smooth transition to credit union but also make further work more difficult and the development of the same, which was the guideline of the legislator. By insisting on the provisions of this article to savings and credit cooperatives that carry out their business 3 or 4 or more counties, it would mean a reduction in the number of jobs and up to 80%, which is not only counterproductive at present but also not in line with the principles and policies that this House, Government and all ministries are propagating. Does this article mean that credit union committees who change their place of residence, which is often in practice, automatically cease their membership and obligations towards the parent credit union. How do you explain to clients before today that changes in their place of residence have to change the credit union they're dealing with. To conclude, persevering in this article and all its definitions would mean closing up the largest number of savings and credit cooperatives that are unable to transform into savings banks or not seeing an interest in the business of only one unit of local administration or self-government. Greater rights for receiving members in the credit union should be given to management. We don't think it's necessary to convene a board of supervisors on a daily basis. The declaration of acceptance of the Statute must be certified by the public notary and these are certain costs. We believe that the administration can determine its own identity by looking into public documents. In this way, the procedure for accessing and signing the necessary documentation should be left to employees who directly communicate with future members of the Union. The truthfulness of the data on the documentation may be subject to regular control of the business of the credit union. A credit union assembly of up to a number of members may be as provided. However, if the credit union has over 5,000 members, the existing rules should be allowed to propose to the members a number of members of the assembly they would choose and the same number would mean that they would represent the assembly according to the delegate principle. And let me get this straight. We have given certain amendments and in the rules we will accept the proposal of this law and I believe that it should bring the paper and that some amendments should... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78780	Thank you very much. An individual debate. Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78781	Mr. President, dear secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This is a law that actually wants to replace the existing law on savings-credit cooperatives and the adoption of this law would stop. Of course, some of the solutions related to credit unions remind many of the registers of mutual assistance or the register of mutual solidarity. But all these solutions should be contained in this law in some way and should be kept in mind. What's particularly interesting is the question of how did the law work out these issues and the area? And I must immediately say that, in the case of credit union operations in Article 30, it asks a very serious question, in fact, when it is said that the credit union is allowed only to carry out sitting tasks, to receive the money deposits of members of the credit union in the domestic currency, to grant loans to members of the Union in the domestic currency, to carry out exchange operations for the members of the credit union, to grant financial assistance to the members of the credit union, to provide guarantees, etc. Now the first question is why is it that if it comes to granting aid, in particular a solidarity fund is not formed within the credit union? And this is a law prescribed which amount of core capital and joint investment is taken and formed into a solidarity fund from which mutual assistance can then be given. Look, if it's about aid, then it's clear that it's a grant. Secondly, what I would like to warn you immediately in this context is the question, why should certain jobs such as the issue of carrying out payment transactions not also be able to carry out a credit union for its members? It doesn't make sense, I mean. Of course, it should be approved by the National Bank but it is not logical that it cannot do so especially since they have been able to do savings-credit cooperatives so far. Third, he's not a logical member at all. First of all, there's an individual question that we know is one. There's two of them. And how many associations are there? Three, five, six, seven, how many individuals? It doesn't make any sense at all by anything or on the basis of which it is prescribed that the credit union could form 50 or more persons. This is more relevant if it is taken into account and linked to Article 7 when paragraph 5 states that at least 5% of the stakes must not be greater than 5% and that the total stake must be up to 500 000, the minimum share of the underlying capital shall be 500 thousand kuna. If it's about 5%, then here these 50 just can't do that part. Thus, the largest number that could be achieved by this is 20 people. Either this percentage must be changed or the issue of this number of credit union founders must be discussed for the sake of constitutional legal principle. In fact, I represent the thesis in accordance with our Constitution, in my opinion I think I have the right to do so when it is said in the Constitution in Article 43. Let me quote: "Anyone is guaranteed the right to free association in order to protect its breakthroughs or to take up social, economic, political and so on other cultural beliefs and goals. That is why everyone can freely establish trade unions, other associations, join them and enter into them and so on." Now watch out. This is about the breakthroughs, for their breakthroughs, in order to pursue social, economic goals. Please do as well as a credit union. And everyone has a right to do that. Why would we say it has to be 50 people? In addition, all other associations under the Law on Associations are such a high number, or a large number are not required for the establishment of any other association. It is of course quite interesting that when it comes to amending and supplementing the Statutes and adopting the Statutes to demand 2/4 of the majority of votes and at the same time the founding assembly in Article 5(4) when it adopts a business plan of the credit union for the first three years of the credit union's operation requires for the granting of approval, etc., the question is, in fact, whether and according to this paragraph 5, most of the votes of all founders. Namely, because this is where the distribution of funds is being made. So the question here is, should there be 2/4 of the majority? The third is a rather interesting solution related to Article 9 regarding the fact that members of the credit union can only be and are now listed. Now it is very interesting to mention paragraph 3 which says, they may be members of the credit union if they meet only one of the following conditions. And one of these conditions, in my opinion, is not until the end of the constitutional legal basis. And that is, it belongs to a particular profession or profession. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in our Constitution it is explicitly prescribed, I will also be free to quote: "... that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has the right and freedom regardless of its race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth and emphasis on education." And it wouldn't be possible in the manner of education as it says here by a certain profession or profession and by others. In order to avoid harming Article 14(1), one profession shall be favored. The Constitution. So, we can talk about what education members of the credit union's board must have, which must have members of the supervisory board but exclude only one education, create it as minors as if we were creating some new builders, etc., and according to our Constitution, it would not have to happen and that would have to happen before this law was passed at least once more examined and seen. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: However, if it ceases to fulfil any of the conditions of Article 9 under the law, it shall not be excluded. Then he ceases to function or ceases to be a member. Therefore, the Supervisory Board should conclude that, that's number one. And number two, if it were an exclusion, then the Supervisory Board would not be able to decide because it is a member of the Union's assembly of the same union, it is the highest body. Therefore, it should be decided by the congregation rather than by the Supervisory Board. I have no objection to opening up the possibility that a member’s congregation may be excluded from its ranks but the law should prescribe what conditions are likely due to serious violations of the law, damage to reputation, etc. This could eventually be prescribed but then it must be given responsibility to the congregation. In addition, Article 17 states, among other things, for a member of the administration that a member of the administration has at least medium professional equipment. This is simply if, from the point of view of the conduct of the business that the credit union must carry out and obtains approval from the National Bank, it could be difficult to go below the level prescribed by the Commercial Society Act, the more the law mentions the same as applying the relevant provisions of the Commercial Society Act to the administration. There is, then, an additional provision immediately lacking, such as the question of solidarity prescribed by members of the Supervisory Board, also there is a solidarity of members of the administration or an individual member of the Management for the adverse consequences which he has knowingly failed to carry out those tasks. Furthermore, in Article 17, I quote, she was not a member of the board of directors or supervisory board of credit unions. So that's an assumption. And then, in Article 18, she continues to speak if she was but stopped performing. Here the question arises if she was a member of another credit union or a supervisory board then the question which time must pass when it cannot be appointed as a member of the administration because of a possible conflict of interest and not as generally asked and then at the same time other provisions that... Article 18 states that a member of the administration may be elected for three years, members of the Supervisory Board as seen later in terms of four years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the question arises why for up to three years when they can be chosen by the Commercial Society Act for five years. Therefore, there is no reason, such restriction, or rather, they have not been particularly elaborated. Now, the most interesting part is that given the time I have to discuss a few things about reshaping, then attaching or joining, forced liquidation. First, the question of attaching or joining two or more unions is that the assets must be fully transferred here. Why? In order to establish a credit union, why it could not be up to the amount at least guaranteed capital. Therefore, members do not have to transfer their assets at that time. Then I must remind you more, of course, that part should be further elaborated in full, especially when we are still talking about this matter of liquidation. You have special liquidations during the transitional period for which the solution will be made for the liquidator of the Ministry of Finance and then before that you have a liquidator after the transitional period that will operate by the National Bank regarding certain conditions acquired by law. So it's impossible to solve these things like this. And the last thing I'd like to say is, it's a matter of criminal provisions that clearly have to be fully agreed on, it doesn't make sense that they stay as they are because simply that part won't work, given that these penalties are much bigger than they could have in order to form the underlying capital. Therefore, it is better to give the entire basic stake than to pay the criminal penalty. And the deadlines of alignment just don't work. For example, six months of the National Bank will have the necessary regulations to make. By May 1st, they must be obvious about the roles. How will the savings-credit banks do so if they do not have implementing regulations, to cooperatives if they do not have implementing regulations. Therefore, that part should be agreed so that the law could be enforceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78782	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78783	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on credit unions regulates part of the financial market of the current and from the scope of the savings-credit cooperatives. Credit unions are primarily designed as financial institutions for the provision of a tight circle of financial affairs to their members according to the principles of reciprocity. Credit unions in Croatia have traditions. Shortly after the creation of the first credit unions in Europe in 1850, a credit union was established in Pitomaca in 1862 and in the early 20th century 1511 of credit unions with about 250 thousand members worked in Croatia. More than 130,000 different credit unions are now operating in the European Union, with over 83 million members and more than 2 million employees and 300 thousand employees employed. I think it is an interesting fact that in 31.12.2005 the total balance sheet amount of savings cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia amounted to a billion and a half thousand kuna, a billion and 500 million kuna. The approval for work has 124 savings-credit cooperatives and it is likely that a large part of these savings-credit cooperatives will continue to operate as credit unions. I believe that the development of credit unions should be well regulated, encouraged, the tradition of credit unions continued, they should be provided with the future. It is not necessary to negatively judge savings-credit cooperatives for those who have done bad business, but to lay down more in detail the financial criteria that ensure security, insolvency and liquidity of business, as this proposal of the Credit Union Act provides. Credit unions as a financial institution dealing mainly with the exchange of financial resources between the members of the credit union which are the owners and which are managed by all its members through a certain democratic procedure should take advantage of the bank's slowness in resolving financial imbalances, especially citizens, as well as the application of relatively strict conditions in granting credit. The fact that a large number of fast and small loans were dealt with right through savings-credit cooperatives and pensioners and craftsmen while banks handle such loans through expensive overruns of current accounts where the interest rate is over 12%. What I think should be amended into the law, which is the number of founders, is that the credit union can therefore establish thirty and more persons and not as in the bill fifty, or remain the same number as before at the same level in terms of easier alignment with the law of existing savings cooperatives. In addition, the smaller number provides easier, faster, more efficient decision - making, and less congregation maintenance costs. With that in mind, my colleague Jelkovac and I have submitted an amendment. Finally, in any case, I support the harmonisation of this part of the financial market with the regulations of the European Union, but I also propose the adoption of certain amendments submitted which I consider justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78784	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78785	Thank you very much. So that I don't repeat myself, but I'm still going to have to say some things again because I've given amendments, too, but it seems to me that all the negative experiences that savings-credit cooperatives have citizens of the Republic of Croatia are justified, and we can talk here today. But a large number of their members and savings lost their money. Unfortunately, there are several such affairs in the City of Varazdin, one of which is still being dragged in today, roots and tails and the question of when they will eventually be resolved because citizens are rightly dissatisfied because they believe that the institutions of the rule of law in these cases do not work enough or do very little work and do their job. However, in particular in this law, my colleague Zgrebec was already on behalf of the Club saying that her impression was and I think I agree with her and that it is a fact that no matter what someone tells me, it has been working for a long time. It's been working for a long time. However, it is then more devastating how unconsistent this law is, how many opposing articles there are, and I would ask the same thing, and that is why I will propose at the end, and I can say right now that it is nevertheless concluded that this law goes to another reading precisely because I can bring all these illogicalities into line and not only with the Banks Act but also with some other regulations. I'm asking a question now, like my predecessors, who are the reasons that credit union business is leaving out the job of payment traffic. The fact is, in 2002, when the National Bank approved in accordance with the country's Payments Law that savings-credit cooperatives could do payment services. I can ask myself and you and it seems to me that the answer is to go along with the big banks. Why? Which, which is why if we want something to be for members spared, in this case credit unions faster, better quality because it is anyway the fact that the main accounts will still be mostly tradesmen will have in banks. Then why don't you keep running the pay traffic. I don't get it. I suppose the motionary will explain that to us. The second thing is, I don't understand why those members of the savings credit union wouldn't have 10% of the capital and they and those who are connected together, because then they'll certainly have their reasons to be more quality and better, more reliable and to be more controlled. So he'll have more reasons for that than if it's only 5%. I do not see that it is any compliance with the rules of the European Union. In addition, Article 9 determines who may be members of a credit union linked to a unit or regional self-government. It seems to me that it is also controversial with the foundation of the Croatian Constitution, because we advocate that we all and have this and trend in Europe to globalise everything, to go to a growing area. Why not also persons from different areas of Croatia who found some business interest, without being just one unit of local and regional self-government, the colleague Zgrebec also spoke about the indifferences written in certain articles of the law. In particular, it is problematic in Article 10(3) when each new member is to be consulted by the Supervisory Board and, in the context of costs, the fourth item states that they must be confirmed by a public notary. I'll just tell you we have 124 savings-credit cooperatives currently in Croatia with 124,000 members. If we know that every certified copy costs 46.60 kuna and if everything has to be verified again to a coma and for what account we're giving that kind of money again. So I guess by verifying from the administration plus by paying the amount that needs to be financially accepted and then the statutes and that you don't need an additional verification in public notebooks. This is how it turns out that the public notebooks in the Republic of Croatia will grow their income and their turnover a little bit further. I have also given the amendment that Article 28 adds paragraphs 4 and 5 to the third paragraph because it is not clear enough regardless of what is said here that certain articles of the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on Banks apply. It means that the assembly from its ranks elects the president and vice president, that the president of the session convenes as necessary but at least once a year and so that the fifth item in the credit line, which has up to 50 members, all constitute the assembly and the number of representatives in the assembly as well as the way in which the elections are held, is determined by the Statute of the credit bank. This is because there is a possibility that those who have taken credit from the Union, means that they can simply revote to reduce interest on existing loans and lead to an unfavourable position of their own credit union. Like I said at the beginning, because we're probably all going to repeat ourselves more or less in further debates. Given some illogicalities and given some things that are not in line with the Law and the banks and the Law on Commercial Society, I think it would be wise for all of us to have this law go to another reading. Because I'm afraid only the proposed amendments and without any amendments, the government will not be sufficiently quality of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78786	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78787	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It's pretty much everything that's been said here, so I'm going to try to shorten my debate. So, the fact is that we are trying to solve the real problems that we have noticed in the practice of savings and credit cooperatives that have occurred mainly because of reduced supervision or because of the lack of supervision by the central state institution. This, of course, has been met by the current legal framework which, in all its solutions and the '98 Savings and Credit Organizations Act. and savings-credit cooperatives from '98. And in 2002, he did not, therefore, settle these issues properly. The provisions of the law did not respect specific risks to which these financial institutions, therefore savings-credit cooperatives in the performance of their activities, were exposed and therefore, in practice, we had as a consequence of the events that were taking place and the bankruptcy of savings-credit cooperatives, the occurrence of affairs and the general fall of trust in financial institutions and the entire legal system of the state. The solutions that are trying to give here, which are, in some ways, based on experiences from European Union countries. We can therefore see from these figures that there are over 130 thousand different credit unions in the EU where more than 83 million members are organised and more than 2.3 million employees are employed. So if we use a little math, we can see that this is an average of 638 members, or 17.7 so close to 18 employees per credit union, which is a pretty large number. This law therefore tries to resolve the future status of 124 savings-credit cooperatives although this sum in the table that we have obtained gives us the number of 111 but I see no city of Zagreb inside, so I assume that the difference from 13 refers to the area in the city, in the city of Zagreb. I'd like to discuss some specific articles. Some colleagues in previous discussions have already mentioned the provisions that I think would be good to build into the law. In particular, in Article 3 I think there is no reason why credit unions do not also carry out payment transactions for craftsmen, of course, mainly because I think there will be a significant number of credit unions that will actually be established by craftsmen. I therefore believe that they want to participate, participate in their establishment, and because they can make payment traffic easier and easier through them. A colleague, Majdenic, said in her statement: "We have jointly submitted an amendment proposing that a provision under which a credit union can be established by 50 or more persons is amended in Article 5. We propose 30." It is in some way a provision that has been in force so far. I don't think we should increase that number. Article 10 states that the approval to join the credit union shall be made by a unanimous decision of all members by the Supervisory Board of the credit union. Now, if we compare the text of this paragraph 3 in Article 10 to the explanation we have in the material on page 3. I'll read that argument. It says: "This law will establish a procedure for membership in a credit union in a way that a person in a desire to achieve his financial needs or obtain a credit sign the necessary documentation and become a member and immediately and unconditionally exercise the right to credit." The meeting of the Supervisory Board is not a daily job or daily activity, but I suppose most often monthly or quarterly, and I think that a vacuum will then become a potential user or future members of the credit union will suffer for it. So that it may be considered to be such, to place that obligation, or the right, in the jurisdiction of the administration. In Article 17, we have heard similar opinions. In paragraph 1, the terms and conditions for the members of the administration shall provide for at least medium professional preparation. This is, however, a specific one, I would also say, very professional business of managing a credit union or managing a financial institution, and I think it would be good to consider that the president, that a member of the administration has, if not already a high level of expertise, and then at least a higher level of expertise. And just one last thing about the final provisions. I will not read and repeat those elements that the Committee on Budgets and Finance has given its amendment. I think they are much more appropriate and closer to practice that they will nevertheless allow for a more high-quality transition period and transformation from savings-credit cooperatives either to a credit union or to a savings bank and that the applicant could therefore accept them. So with these changes and indications this Law would be worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78788	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78789	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues namely this law and this Proposal for a Law on Credit Unions which actually replaces the current Law on Savings and Credit Cooperatives brings all relevant items that will regulate business in such institutions that have been established for mutual assistance to those who have joined in the credit union itself. So far, the laws that spoke about savings-credit laws, the 1989 savings-credit cooperatives, and so in 2002, which I already spoke of in one replica, had provisions that did not respect the specific risks that these financial institutions were exposed to in their activities. Neither of the laws mentioned above prescribes detailed financial criteria to ensure security, insolvency, liquidity and business of credit unions. Such provisions relate primarily to the amount of the underlying capital, the amount of the underlying capital and the total liabilities assumed by the credit union. The amount of individual largest credit, credit, exposure to one client, the amount of investment in material assets, the formation of reserves, and everything else that has been in legal terms since the submission of financial reports and controls and legal and criminal provisions. In fact, the 2002 law allowed the most to happen to criminal stores and fraud savings that only 1260 of them who lost their savings with huge amounts of money in Virovitica. But what's there is. He's right behind us. We hope that the legal system of the Republic of Croatia will reach those who reached into the savings pockets and that they will be able to make up for at least the property that has remained in bankruptcy now and will not experience liquidation without compensation for those who have been saving such cooperatives. We are talking about such financial institutions as the first savings-credit cooperatives, craft associations of savings and other names used date back to 1850 in Europe. But also the first craft-saving-credit association founded in Pitomaca in 1862 and, if we remember well, our late Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Stjepan Sullivanac was one of those who were associated with this cooperative and I was a member and cooperative of the cooperative and user of their services. So when it comes to me that this way from Mrs. Zgrebec's bench that I don't know about this problem, I just want to tell her that I feel together with all the savings that have been saving in such savings-credit cooperatives, and I have to inform you that this cooperation in Pitomaca, which is the first in Croatia and probably the first and former Yugoslavia in this area, has done business today only because competition is in the form of political and political performances of individuals from certain groups of political desires to destroy it and has succeeded in doing so. And I would therefore like to continue to say that this law clearly defines both the statutes and the Rules of Procedure and the management of liquidity and all those items that speak of one justice in the mutual assistance of all those who join together, and especially those who join together, can in fact be joined together because that is how this law is defined, and can also be provided under both the Czech and the educational and all other branches associated with such a financial organisation, each other's assistance. Namely, the amount planned for 500, the minimum amount planned for a deposit of 500 thousand kuna, I would raise to a mill and a half kuna for safety and payment in the event of any earthquakes. However, it is also defined that the credit union reserves that must be 20% of the total amount of membership shares, as well as that at least 50% of the profits achieved must be entered into the credit union reserves, and the rest can only be paid to the members of the credit union, while they have now worked to make full income from interest on citizens and savings and on their members have chosen each other and have made large profits that have never been recorded anywhere. And those were extra profits without taxation and without anything. On interest rates which were up to 400% which in the court proceedings and decisions and judgments of the Supreme Court were denied, while the same users of such loans came into the situation that they had lost houses, economic facilities and it was sold for 1 kuna. In all this system which allowed the law of 2002 because of the lack of control, such strange things happened, and today they happen that individuals in the form of political powers are members of individual cooperatives, that they are participants with entire families, that they are in line with the judiciary which is also mates and others both in the space of Virovitic County and the Koprivnica-Crysing and probably others. I only know the ones I'm talking about, who are actually joined in a green organization registered under a savings-credit cooperative, and today live on the back of savings and their fellow citizens and friends. And what I'm saying is that probably the hand of justice will reach them. However, there are many who have experienced their financial and human ruin, not knowing where the wind actually blows and how the legal provisions apply to them, and how 400 percent of the interest can be charged to someone and take his house for 1 kuna and continue to be in debt as well as his bailors or creditors. I believe that this law will define everything in the Republic of Croatia as regards such fast loans that the Supervisory Board will certainly meet if it has enough clients or applications for membership and once a week make reception decisions, as well as excluding all those who will not comply with their obligations or not to be a firm as stated in this law. I would also like to say that I really welcome this law, but I must stress that it is the regulation of the European Union as well as the European Union Directive that it dates back to 2000 and that it has long been possible to pass such a law in order to prevent such malfeasances that occurred just in the time of 2000 to 2003, and in 2004, they already went into bankruptcy of such an institution or have been reregistered and re-greened and kidnapped by other forms of Croatian citizens. I therefore welcome this law and I really want those who need and who will join in such forms to have sufficient legal and legal and constitutional and business powers to control, and I hope the Ministry of Finance as well as the National Bank of the Republic of Croatia will have instruments to control all those who are members, who receive loans and who receive shares in the account of interest or obtain from such forms. But I would like to stress that the laws of the Republic of Croatia and... The government of the Republic of Croatia must prevent all those who have so far greened through the forms of savings-credit cooperatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78790	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78791	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is entirely incorrect and tending that the 2002 law allowed illegality and crime. Dear colleague, most of the abuses and criminal activities happened by 2000, whether you wanted to admit it or not, and before 2000, the first bankruptcy started, and only with the opening and coalition authority did the citizens speak of it more freely. Why these affairs are not an explanation to this day I can ask myself and you, because you forget it was the law of '98. It's not the laws that make it possible, but the wicked people and the weak control and the dysfunction, the failure of the rule of law, from the police and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78792	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78793	Mr. President, Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because the gentleman did not correct my false claim but spoke of what I did not actually say. I have decidedly said that by eradicating that article, which states that the annual report must be submitted to the Croatian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance from 2002, criminal actions are allowed. That's what I said and I'm behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78794	Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78795	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members of the Parliament, MPs and MPs, here I would thank everyone at the beginning for a very fruitful debate. It is, therefore, as the debate has made very clear about a law that tries to put an end to all the actions that have been done so far and all the jobs that were mainly done in an illegal manner through savings-credit cooperatives. Therefore, one part of them is given the possibility to be harmonised as savings banks and then through credit unions, so for those who cannot register as savings banks, or have not been sufficiently strengthened. Why is surveillance moving from the Ministry of Finance to the Croatian National Bank? The reason is very simple, because supervision of monetary institutions, and the credit union is a monetary institution, because credit should be in the hands of the central bank and there is no point in one administration such as the Croatian administration in two places to work and develop the staff of one part of the Croatian National Bank, and additionally in the Ministry of Finance and thus to waste valuable resources. It is therefore a credible proposal in this case that control should be moved from the Ministry of Finance to the Croatian National Bank. Regarding payment transactions performed by credit unions, the reason is very simple and clear. It is about institutions that do not have secured deposits such as banks, as do savings banks, as do other institutions that register within that law but which as such do not have the ability to ensure that the money that goes from one account to another and therefore do not have the possibility to exercise control, supervision, financial control within their credit union in such a way as the banks do and which in such a way carry out payment traffic. So far, only three out of 124 savings-credit cooperatives have performed payment traffic, and 8 of them have done so through the sub-account of another business bank. It is therefore that there is neither an interest nor a necessary job for the credit union as a union in which their members are involved, which deals with the exchange of financial resources between members of the credit union. There have been several emphasiss on the expertise. The reason why it started to unify the technical provision is because the laws, so that one day this law will be part of the composition of the law within the European Union when Croatia becomes a member of the European Union, do not know the higher level of expertise, so we have therefore put on medium expert training. Access to the credit union is much more restrictive. Why? For the simple reason why we don't want someone to come in just to get a loan, give one kuna share, but we want someone to go into a credit union to stay inside longer, be a member of it and support each other along with the other members. The credit union of her company is not a profit society. Thus, at the end of the year, it pays all its members a reasonable amount of revenue over expenditure and, in that sense, it is also important to apply this law within those deadlines. The deadline for harmonisation is 1.1.2008. As noted, it is the fact that the European Union does not know savings-credit cooperatives, that other countries have abolished savings-credit cooperatives, that the Government allows these to transform savings-credit cooperatives that cannot be transformed into savings banks into credit unions and thus retain their business. For example, Slovenia and some other countries have completely abolished the savings-credit cooperatives and thus would open up space to seek exemption from the application of the Credit Institutions Directive if the savings-credit cooperatives succeed, and according to the law should be registered as credit union. So the Government is really opening up a single space with this law, and it solves one important issue in the part, and what has often been mentioned about the regulation of that market, these institutions, therefore savings-credit cooperatives and allows for their continuity in the future in a slightly more sorry form but of course for the purpose of retaining financial stability and for the purpose of maintaining the country's full macroeconomic stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78796	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The final proposal of the Credit Union Act Yes, first we have amendments to the Government that we should vote on whether we will vote on, debate. Amendment 1.? We should vote. ... These are the government's amendments. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First we vote whether or not we discuss it. Who's in favour of discussing these amendments to the government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 101 for now. Come on, we'll vote. Amendment 1.? Secretary of State, explain Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78798	Article 5 is replaced by the following: Therefore, the credit union may be established on one of the following principles, the employment principle or the profession principle and the territorial principle. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78799	I'm opening a debate. HSP club Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78800	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State! I think it's scandalous for someone to call the law P.Z.E. And then that government gave fourteen amendments to the emergency procedure. This clearly shows that the law is not mature for an emergency procedure. However, there is this magical name P.Z.E. Which is why you, Mr. President, insist that it be an emergency procedure after all. The law is obviously not as far-reaching as it should be. And if any law had been passed by the MPs, you would surely not have agreed to have an emergency procedure. I kindly ask you to take care of it. We are against these amendments for that reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78801	I am voting on Amendment 1. Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Amendment 2. Government?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78802	The proposed text is a provision which determines the content and method of entering a credit union in the court register.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78803	You know that in the amendment, the president assesses whether he's got a majority or not, and he immediately finds it, and then don't give me a soft spot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78804	It is necessary for the same reason that the Court Register Act does not contain provisions which determine the data and method of enrolment in the court register.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78805	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78806	Mr. President, I think it's visible. It is necessary to protect the integrity of the Croatian Parliament from such a clumper of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78807	Please refer to the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78808	Well, that's a schlamper. Look, they forgot to settle the enrolment issues in the court register. And then they're hiding away from this P.Z.E. It's not P.Z.E. It's P.Z. It sucks."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78809	Who is for this amendment to the government? Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. The 3rd Amendment of the Government?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78810	Amendment 3 has been proposed. It represents an clarification of the provisions proposed so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78811	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who is for this amendment to the government? Please vote. Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Amendment 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78812	The proposed text is a harmonisation in relation to the observations of the Committee on Law on the role of the Croatian National Bank in the supervision of credit unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78813	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Amendment 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78814	The proposed text is a harmonisation in relation to the observations of the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78815	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Amendment 6?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78816	The proposed amendment is also a harmonisation with regard to the observations of the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78817	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Amendment 7?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78818	That amendment represents the precise provision of a call for a material provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78819	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 7. Who's for Amendment 7? Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Amendment 8?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78820	The proposed supplement is a harmonisation in relation to the observations of the Committee on Parliament's Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78821	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in favor of Amendment 8. Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Nine?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78822	The proposed supplement is a harmonisation in relation to the observations of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78823	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Amendment 9?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78824	The proposed supplement is also a harmonisation in relation to the observations of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78825	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Amendment 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78826	The proposed supplement is also a harmonisation in relation to the observations of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78827	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. 11th Amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78828	The proposed text constitutes provisions laying down the right of cooperatives who do not fulfil the conditions for a member of the credit union to pay off his debt and the obligation of a savings-credit cooperative which, in accordance with this law, has been granted the authorisation to work on the registration of data changes in the court register.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78829	Who's in favour of this amendment? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Amendment 12?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78830	The proposed text is an addition and clarification of the provisions so far which determine the process and way of transforming the savings and credit union into a savings bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78831	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's up for this amendan? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Who's in favor of Amendment 12? Thank you. Against? The amendment has received the required majority. Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78832	That amendment constitutes a harmonisation with respect to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78833	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of Amendment 13. Thank you. Against? I find that the amendment has received the necessary majority. And Amendment 14.?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78834	That amendment constitutes a harmonisation with respect to the observations of the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78835	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed amendment. Who's up for this one? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The amendment has received the required majority. Now we have a plate, now we have one plate. First of all, the table in which the amendments to the Legislative Committee are
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78836	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78837	Thank you. Then we have the 2nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78838	The government does not accept the amendment since credit unions can only deal with their members. It is not permissible for certain non-member institutions and other legal persons to carry out those tasks, as this would violate the basic principle of business of credit unions, or would become banks and, in that sense, it could not be required to exempt them from negotiations with the European Union. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78839	This is about different views on matter. We're staying with ourselves, but we're gonna give up on these amendments. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78840	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment, 3rd Amendment of Representatives Ruža Tomasic, Tonci Tadic, Pero Kovacevic and Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78841	The government does not accept the amendment with the same explanation since credit unions can only deal with their members. Is it not lawful for certain jobs and legal persons who are not members to do these jobs for them?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78842	Representative Tonci Tadic?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78843	With this amendment, we ask for credit unions to be able to run payment traffic. They can also provide a whole range of other services that have been provided by savings-credit cooperatives so far, such as "consulting" and intermediation, asset insurance, bookkeeping services or mutual assistance registers. There's no reason not to give it to them. But the key thing is why does the government not allow credit unions to have the right to payment? Because you're guessing in foreign banks in Croatia. I demand the vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78844	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78845	The government does not accept the amendment with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78846	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 5th Representative Dear Zgrebec?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78847	The government does not accept the amendment with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78848	Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. How come we didn't vote? ... Oh, yeah? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that, yes, yes. I'm going a little too fast and then, yeah, yeah. So, who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The seventh representatives of Nevenka Majdenić and Vlada Jelkovc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78849	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78850	It's becoming an integral part. Tenth Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78851	We don't accept the amendment. A member's share of a single member of a credit union shall not exceed 5% of the total amount of the membership shares in order to prevent a smaller number of members of the credit union, so that they 10 acquire informal powers of management of the credit union and so that the withdrawal of a member from the credit union does not endanger business and raise questions about the continuation of the credit union's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78852	HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78853	We disagree. But I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78854	Retracted. Representative Miroslav Korenik, 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78855	We don't accept the amendment with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78856	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 13. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78857	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The addition of this article would prevent the business of the credit union on the basis of the principle of mutual reciprocity between its members and also prevent the acquisition by the European Commission of exemptions on the application of the Credit Institutions Directive. Therefore, the application of BASEL 2 and the smallest capital of 8 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78858	Representative, club of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78859	For the same reasons I withdraw the amendment before the above.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78860	Amendment withdrawn. 14. Representatives Ruža Tomasic, Tonci Tadic, Pero Kovacevic and Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78861	The government does not accept the amendment with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78862	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78863	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Membership in savings-credit unions should also enable small entrepreneurs who often work with capital smaller than craftsmen. There's no reason to limit them. We also believe that paragraphs 3 and 4 should be deleted because they are contrary to the legal system of both Croatia and the European Union. And by doing so, the government actually imposes limits on future members of the credit union such as a commitment to a specific territory as a membership in a credit union. So that we are violating the laws of European Croatia would not make you... Infringement and regulations of the European Union which are in favour of... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] residences. ... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] I'm asking you to vote on this. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78864	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15th Representative Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78865	We don't accept the amendment with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78866	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16. The Legislative Committee. That's what we are, yes. The 17th representative of Mark Schirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78867	The Government does not accept the amendment because the text of this article is governed by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78868	Amendment 17 withdrawn. 18th Representative of Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78869	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The provisions of this Article lay down the conditions for the capacity of a member of a credit union, i.e. to fulfil one of the conditions in accordance with the principle on which a specific credit union is established.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78870	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78871	The government doesn't accept the amendment. With the reason that the credit union is organised as a set of members of the provisions of the law as well as the statutes, the conditions which a person must fulfil in order to become a member of the credit union are laid down and it is necessary to determine whether the conditions have been met before membership of the Board's supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78872	HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78873	We in Croatia think that the proposed amendment was to be accepted because it simplifies and cheapens the way access to savings-credit unions, which is ultimately the goal. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78874	Retracted?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78875	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78876	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20 MPs, Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78877	He doesn't accept the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78878	I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78879	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78880	It becomes an integral part of the law. 25. Representatives Ruža Tomasic, Tonci Tadic, Pera Kovacevic and Peja Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78881	The government doesn't accept the amendment. According to the acquis relating to academic education, therefore, the Bologna Convention does not know of a higher degree of expertise. But there is also a condition of special expertise in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78882	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78883	With this amendment, we just want to ensure that a member... professional training. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] So we want as many qualified management members as possible. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78884	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78885	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78886	It becomes an integral part of the law. 28th Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78887	The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78888	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 29th is identical, so it's not voted on. 33rd representative Ruža Tomasic, Tonči Tadić, Pero Kovacevic and Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78889	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The work of the credit union shall be subject to the request of a member of the management in full working time and, given that Article 18 of this Act establishes the maximum duration of the term of office of a member of the management of the credit union is not acceptable,... on working relation to indefinite time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78890	Tonchi Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78891	Dear Mr. Secretary of State... indicated very clumsyly. ... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Article... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Members must be in a working relationship... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] clear whether on a specific or indefinite time. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] And where do you hire... three years on a fixed time or on a managerial contract. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] So these are things that are unclear here, and that's why we're asking that instead of a full-time working relationship, he writes a working relationship for an indefinite period of time. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78892	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 36th Representative of the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78893	The government doesn't accept the amendment. By adopting the amendments to the Legislative Committee, which is referred to in the table next in Article 25. So that was adopted at the very beginning. The conditions for a member of the Supervisory Board will determine that that person must be a member of the credit union. So that amendment has already been adopted, and it has been proposed by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78894	Amendment 36 withdrawn. The 40th MP, "Dear Zgrebec."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78895	The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78896	Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 41st MPs Ruža Tomasic, Tadic, Kovacevic and Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78897	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Same as the last amendment. ... The Legislative Committee has already accepted that. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78898	Okay. Did they accept it or didn't they?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78899	We did. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78900	Okay, fine. I'll take it back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78901	43rd Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78902	The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78903	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 44 club representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78904	The government does not accept the amendment because the business of the credit union is established on the principle of equality of all its members and for this reason each member must necessarily have one vote. The second part of the amendment is contained in the amendment of the Legislative Committee which has already been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78905	Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78906	Since one part of the amendment has been accepted, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78907	Retracted. Amendment 72 of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78908	The Government does not accept the amendments because, in accordance with the European Commission's opinion, the proposed changes to the deadlines are not acceptable and would have a significant impact on the other deadlines set by this law. Also... the deadline for harmonisation in June 2008 which was adopted, provided for by this law and further part of the text was already regulated by the amendment of the Legislative Committee which was adopted. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78909	Amendment 72 withdrawn. 73 club representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78910	The government does not accept as an amendment to the Committee on Budgets and Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78911	Since he's got the same fate as the last one, I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78912	Retracted 73. 74.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78913	The government does not accept the amendment as it did in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78914	Representative Tonci Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78915	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here we are in the same problem as the Banks Act. The deadlines are unrealistic, you understand. This article discusses the period within which a savings-credit association must call on its fellow Members and decide whether to become a credit union or a savings bank. It's impossible in three months to look at all aspects of business. To review the report, collect all letters of intent from all these congregations who want to be a shareholder, who won't be. It's too short-handed. What is most strange here is that the ministry insists on a rapid change of this law as if we will be in the European Union in 2008. We in the Union won't be my people for another few years. What's the hurry with that? It goes in favour of foreign banks in Croatia. So give these savings-credit unions a little bit of time to agree. There's no reason for a three-month deadline. Let's give them the whole next year or at least half a year. I demand the vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78916	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 77 Clubs of HSU Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78917	The Government does not accept the amendment, the text of the article is governed by the amendment of the Legislative Committee which has been adopted [[Intruder: Pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78918	Amendment 77 withdrawn. 78 MPs Ruža Tomasic, Tonci Tadic, Pera Kovacevic and Peja Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78919	The government does not accept the amendment for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78920	Tonci Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78921	So the Legislative Committee has adopted the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78922	Then we take it back, but we repeat, the deadlines are too short.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78923	Retracted. 80 club representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78924	The Government does not accept the amendment because the text of the article is governed by the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78925	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78926	Amendment 80 withdrawn. Amendment 82 of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78927	The government does not accept the amendment because it is the same as the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78928	Amendment 82 withdrawn. 83 MPs Ruža Tomasic, Tonci Tadic, Pera Kovacevic and Peja Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78929	The government does not accept the amendment for the same reason. The text is therefore governed by the amendment of the Legislative Committee which has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78930	Tonchi Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78931	Whether this solution has been accepted or solved in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78932	The text was edited by the amendment of the Legislative Committee, which was adopted, and the extension of the deadlines would make it impossible for the negotiating position to be taken. So that part wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78933	So we're in the same problem again. The government insists on cutting deadlines because it expects entry... /The speaker is off, so it's back on./...what we're doing. This is not necessary even for the sake of negotiations. Nowhere in European documents does it say that we must comply by 2008, but within a certain period of four years, you understand. Why cut it short? We're not going into the Union for another few years. We're looking for a vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78934	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Credit Union Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 72 votes for, 6 abstentions and 12 against, a proposed law was passed in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct a revision of the text of the Credit Union Act before its publication in the "National Journals". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes for, 4 abstentions and 3 against, a proposed conclusion. In order to prevent the proposings from being authorised, we will skip point 7 and discuss it tomorrow in the afternoon part of the debate and now move to point 8 and that is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Water Navigation, second reading, P.Z. No. 512 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The second is reading. The provisions relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Branko Bacic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78936	Thank you, Mr. President. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Inland water navigation was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in its first reading on 7 July this year. The final bill proposed today does not differ from the legislative proposal in the first reading. Namely proposed changes and additions that were in the first reading,... the provisions of Article 3 of the applicable law defining the headquarters of the Agency for Inland Waterways in Zagreb. [[You don't understand.]] Second, the ministry from which the composition of the Agency's Governing Council is appointed and third, the way in which the Agency's activities are entrusted. The final draft of the law suggests that the Agency's headquarters should be moved to Vukovar and that is the basic purpose of amending the law that enables it to act better immediately from a new location. Since the draft and start of the Agency's work, it has been seen to be much more meaningful and therefore more economical for the headquarters to be where activities are taking place and for which the agency is founded such as construction, technical maintenance, marking and waterway management, and mainly for the coordination of work on the upcoming construction of the Danube-Sava channel. The port in Vukovar is our largest port on the rivers and therefore clearly it was one of the most important reasons,... The headquarters of the agency, we propose to move from Zagreb to Vukovar. [[You don't understand.]] The change of seat will not cause any new costs that should possibly be secured from the state budget. The agency itself was previously formed in Vukovar and is equipped with the necessary equipment. Now, at the centre of the outpost, if parliament adopts such a bill, it will also be the head office of the agency. The second reason is the composition of the Governing Council of the Agency, which is in line with the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. Following the adoption of amendments and additions to the 2003 Law on Inland Water Navigation, some ministries were joined together, and thus jurisdiction. The composition of the Governing Council is therefore proposed according to the jurisdiction of the central authorities of the state administration, not according to the names of the ministries from which the Government appoints representatives to the administrative board of its own agencies. In this way, no matter how they possibly join or separate the powers of the ministries, they will always know from which resolution 6 representatives should be appointed to the Agency's administrative council. And the third amendment proposed by this brief amendment to the law is a change in the way in which businesses are entrusted. In fact, in the current law, trust operations, i.e. competence in the trust of the Agency's public tender, and we, with this amendment of the law, have been established that the way in which business and services are entrusted by the Agency is done in accordance with the public procurement law which widely interprets and enables the way in which businesses are entrusted. Otherwise, in the first reading, there were several proposals that we in this second final reading did not accept for the reason that during 2007 we intend to propose a systematic amendment to the Parliament and the adoption of a new Internal Navigation Act. Of these observations, the suggestions that were in the first reading were first applied in a way that representatives of ports, shipowners and local self-government entered the administrative board of the Waterway Agency. We adopted it with such a proposal because the representatives of concessionaires and local self-government are already sitting in the boards of the port administrations. So as the jurisdiction of the port administrations spreads territorially and covers the entire waterways, it was not necessary for parallelism to occur so that these same representatives sat, therefore, and in a state, administrative council of state institutions like this agency. And at that time to be members of the Port Authority Board. In any case, we will deliver a proposal for an internal waterway development plan at the next session of the Parliament very soon and during the next 5 years, and this very 5-year plan is now in the adoption procedure at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And we will also propose to the Parliament for the next session for the adoption of the 5-year plan for the development of ports on internal waters. In this way, the Parliament will certainly be fully aware of the situation, the present state of internal waterways and ports, these ports on the inland waterways. On the other hand, we will clearly show the plan for the development of ports and the construction and maintenance of waterways in the Republic of Croatia. So, with all these supplements, clearly with the amendment of the Law that is foreseen in the following year or the adoption of a new law and with a 5-year plan for the development of inland waterways and the development of ports on inland waterways, I think that here we will round up all those remarks, all those suggestions and adopt the largest part of those suggestions that were given and which were in the debate when this Law was in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78937	Thank you. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? The president, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78938	... Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 55th session held on 30 November 2006 discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Water Navigation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 512. The opening exhibition was given by a representative of the promoters who stressed that this Law proposes these 3 amendments and complements the change in the seat of the Agency for Waterways to the Inland Waters, from Zagreb to Vukovar, which is an ideal place to coordinate the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. Secondly, the coordination of the composition of the Management Board of the Agency, consisting of representatives from the competent ministries, therefore, practically one nomotechnical harmonisation. Which means the representatives of the executive government. And the third alignment with the Public Procurement Act, the opening of a public tender for the procurement of non-aeronautical transactions. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Waterways, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78939	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78940	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Water Navigation. The Inland water navigation law of 1998 regulated the legal framework of the activities of inland water navigation and navigation relations in the Republic of Croatia. The safety of navigation was an international, interstate or state navigation system, a material and legal relationship with respect to vessels, vessel registration procedures, transport, shipping accidents, captains and controls. The amendment and addition of the Inland water navigation law of 2003 comply with the Directives of the European Union and has been established as the most novelty by the Agency for Inland Waterways as a non-profit institution in accordance with the Law on Institutes, with tasks from the construction of waterways, technical support and marking of waterways and waterway safety facilities, the management of waterways in terms of water safety and navigation security and navigation management. The Agency's headquarters was scheduled in Zagreb. In view of the observed shortcomings and regarding the Agency for Inland Waterways, these proposed amendments and additions to the Act, the Agency’s headquarters, would be in Vukovar. For such a proposed change, there are very solid and justifiable reasons. Vukovar is the central location of river transport in the Republic of Croatia, the port of Vukovar is the largest port on the inner waters in our country, and it is intended to build a multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel, the nominated priority government of the Republic of Croatia and the starting point of these roads. Of course, this proposal does not ignore the economic side of the issue, because of the position at which the Agency's headquarters is proposed, so the City of Vukovar is located. When it comes to inland waterways and sailing, there are some other explanations that are needed. It is important and should be noted that it is an activity with an extremely rich tradition, economic, developmental and in every other respect it is extremely profitable. It has to be said and the fact is that the entire waterway system is quite detached and the reasons for such a situation have more. It is certain that this contributed to the previous period of war and left behind the consequences. But that's also the result of poor maintenance that's been going on for decades. It is almost difficult to recall the work on deepening the Danube waterway and if there were, they were in the function of something else, therefore not the primary deepening of the waterway. And all three of our rivers that are significant waterways, so the Danube, Drava and Sava require a lot of work and care to be like waterways, so as to be as waterways in the condition required of this work. Now by establishing the Republic of Croatia as an independent state by normalising relations with neighbours, this does not apply to Drava, there are relations arranged, and three rivers become or have already been except Drava and border in the part in which they are watered. The Danube all the way while this temporary regime of the border is in effect. All large part of the airworthiness in the Republic of Croatia and Drava only in one small part. This, of course, requires further efforts to penetrate several areas of the problem, not only technical but also resolving the issue of borders and defining the border line. The technical part puts great tasks before the agency and those tasks must be answered. A provision on the composition of the Management Board of the Agency, consisting of representatives of the resolution ministries that have points of contact with waterway issues, gives a general name to the central body of the State Administration which makes the appointment of a member of the Council simpler in the event of any change in the formation of a ministry. Another proposed amendment relates to the confidence of the Agency’s activities when and because of its economics, it does not intend to carry out it on its own but trusts other public procurement laws to which state bodies and legal entities financed from the state budget are subject. Such a structure and headquarters as proposed by the regional units will carry out its tasks, it must achieve them which are put before it and give the results that are next to it. The tradition of steamboarding inland transport, especially in the Danube, is long. It goes off for 180 years, and that goes in favor of the proposal to have the agency's headquarters in Vukovar. This, of course, must be taken on steamboats with a reserve because now it's another power plant, not ships anymore, so steamboats. One more thing. It is an area of special state care, a war-torn area, still unrecovered from the consequences of war and occupation, and this is also a contribution to the recovery and recovery of the area, with all the practical reasons already mentioned. And here's to it, another piece of information. In the first year after peaceful reintegration, Luka Vukovar achieved an 8000-ton gap in 1998. By 27.11.2000, a 832 thousand and 500 tonnes drop-off was made. The port plan is for this year 850 and it is almost certain that until today the plan is exceeded. Also note that this year there has been a several-day traffic jam due to an extremely high water supply. So, what's interesting about that port is not the problem of low water traffic in the Danube, but only extremely high water. However, they appear only at several years, even ten years and more intervals. And one more thing. These were data on the closure only for the port of Vukovar d.o.o. in the area of the Vukovar port administration. And there's more concessionaries in that area, the truth with smaller brakes. So more than certain that there is a 1 million-tonne gap in the port administration area of Vukovar this year. I repeat, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78941	The SDP club is a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78942	... Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! [[Specially enabled.]] You know, when we get a bill like this, which, in its very explanation, announces that a more complete amendment and addition of the Law on Inland Waters will come next year, the question of whether these few amendments should make the law. To be honest, we as a club are not in principle opposed to this change because, among other things, it is good that an unnatural situation is actually corrected and that the Agency's headquarters is in Vukovar or any of the cities in which the river ports and ports are located. It makes no sense that it was put in Zagreb when actually sailing to the City of Zagreb along the Sava River is not possible except for small vessels. But there are a few things we would like to open up about once and a principled debate in our Parliament. We would like to remind ourselves that under our Constitution, the Government of the Republic of Croatia implements laws, among other things, other decisions of the Croatian Parliament, of course through its resolution ministries. Second, we would like to recall that when it comes to state administration Article 116, it is prescribed that the establishment and operations of the state administration and the way they are carried out are governed by law. Of course certain public administration tasks can be entrusted by law to bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons with public authority. Now, the law and regulations regulate the status of civil servants and the working legal status of tenants. Look, it's quite true, among other things, what he said and colleague Stengl on behalf of the HDZ Club. It is undeniable that the agency is a non-profit institution, it is undeniable that it was established among other things and under this Law on... navigation but also under the Law on Institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the issue of a systematic legal aspect of what is the agency, besides being a non-profit institution? So it's this particular organization that is entrusted with business, given public authority to carry out certain tasks on its own behalf, in its own account, but of course in accordance with the implementation of the Law on Inland Water Navigation which actually separates the agency from the clean state administration that does so. And it is completely unnatural now to amend the law under which, in the administrative bodies or the administrative council, it is proposed that they be persons from the central authorities of the state administration or, let's face it, there is no doubt in the ministries. Why? Because these ministries are each responsible for the supervision and control of law enforcement of waterways, related among other things to the construction of waterways in inland waters, the issue of carrying out technical maintenance activities, waterway markings, facilities, safety of navigation, navigation management, etc. Now, imagine what will happen. The ministry will now, among other things, oversee itself and control the implementation of the law in all this. In fact, it's a conflict of interest and in such a situation it's not normal, it's not good that such a concentration of power occurs in places like this. At least it's good in that segment, and I'm repeating again on behalf of our club. At least space should have been opened for representatives of port administrations and units of local and regional self-government through which the waterways pass, on which waterways are practically included. Not a good argument, however, is a very bad argument to say that among other things they will not be included because they are located in the administrative councils of river ports and port administrations. You know, it's just not good for a simple reason because port administrations aren't the ones doing these jobs, but they're users of the service of this agency that needs to provide waterway arrangements, upgrades... and everything else that's actually being solved in the waterways on the inner waters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why it's not good for those who are actually in charge of law enforcement at the same time to control it themselves. We're afraid of a situation similar to today. We also had the last time during the debate in the first reading of this law a launched initiative to spread information on the state of waterways and ports in the inland waters, then to report on the preparation of the waterway arrangements especially related to not only our decisions but also interstate agreements. Then we're told that it's actually only about programs to prepare for it. We still haven't received that report, although it is mandatory under the Law on Waterways. If you are still working on programs, be careful and the law has already been passed in 2003, no law was passed in '98. years ago when I was running that board. Please, after the law was passed in 2003, it is a little in line with the provisions of the European Union and the agreement on international waters in the Danube on the Danube Agency, but the question remains how will we address the issue of the waterway on the Sava. We still don't really touch and touch on this issue, some say not because we can't arrange a waterway on Savi, but because of the question of establishing the power around digging up skids and sands on those waterways where often times not only the waterway is disrupted but also the queen changes its course, etc. In view of the large excavations and below the allowed depth of the nuts. So if we look at it from that point of view, then there is a very serious question of what will continue. Secondly, we have adopted a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia. In this strategy, we have prescribed which waterways of the first category, the second, third, fourth, until the sixth, and in that segment are open the possibility of maltene to Varazdin to open up the possibility of a certain tonage of the vessel to sail along the Drava River. The possibility is open and debated about the possibility of establishing the wateriness of the Sava River all the way to Zagreb, and especially what colleague Stengl has opened the question is the matter of cutting the waterway by begging, not begging, but actually building the Danube-Sava channel which should go to the old waterways which are also the Roman legions that actually carried the grain from the Vojvodina and Slavonic plains all the way to Karlovac... Bosuta, Vuks, Old Wolfs, Wolfs, etc. and then very little remains actually for begging and digging which should be done there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore not only the possibility of bringing in an operational maintenance programme but the airworthiness established by a waterway or a programme that should allow quality waterway cleaning that still have the markings of certain hazards. It is not a question of asking Mandar about the Sava River to reduce the wateriness of the Sava River, or the length of the Sava River, and in addition to bringing the river into a situation that is not so hierarchical at the time of great rains and snows, the melting of snow in the spring or autumn, which is of course of great importance not only for the airworthiness but also for today, the use of a watering and draining system in the area of Posava, etc. but the issue of a long-term strategy is also being opened here, in fact, to regulate the completeness of the waterways and to reduce transport and, among other things, its cost of large goods and services, and especially the scattered burdens in that segment. Of course, when spoken in this respect, it is often ignored that the river port of Vukovar and in the former state was the third seaport, but that it is now very much developing, that the river port of Slavonski Brod will be extremely developed in view of the income of the scattered and small burdens and current burdens that will now be provided between the two countries and at the border between the two countries, etc. Therefore, this airworthiness is very important and very serious. That's why this agency in this little change that we're talking about a little bit, you know, it's not a meaningless question. We are now opening three amendments that would allow the agency to transfer its headquarters to Vukovar, which will allow, among other things, some of the water activities itself to carry, carry or transfer to third. Listen, even if we didn't prescribe it by law it exists by law and by the Constitution such a possibility, the agency can always do it as a legal person, as a nonprofit institution do it. What is important here should be prescribed that this must always be done in accordance with the competition. Or I don't know, the question of the composition of the council itself, of course, it's my deep belief that it's bad for business because people who deal with the administration, who deal with law enforcement, are not really the entrepreneurial spirit and business spirit that will provide economic goals and interests for the development of those tasks and the achievement of those tasks that the law prescribes. And that is why we believe that this law should have been stopped and when it has already been announced that a more serious change will be prepared which is precisely to address these issues concerning, I say again, the construction of waterways in inland waterways, the issue of investor properties and investments under specific regulations, the operation of technical maintenance, the marking of waterways and facilities, the establishment of safety of navigation, the management of waterways in terms of water safety, safety of navigation and navigation, etc. And what's especially now is a question that's being followed by objects that should be dealt with, you know that all of this can be done. It's sad to say it, but it's true. You know, we don't have any river shipyards to build new waterways that will use our waterways or service these 200 water units that we have in our, in our ports, but we're doing it at the Apache Shipyard. For God's sake, can't we once single out some funds and some money and provide a direct investment that will build one or allow investment that will create a modern middle river shipyard for river ships and vessels. At the end of the space from Slavonski Brod via Županje to Vukovar if you want or Osijek has on, a lot of unemployed people extremely trained metal men who once and in the former but also in this country have achieved exceptional results in the competitions of metals, won gold and silver and other medals in many professions and skills of metals and so on and who ultimately work on the shipyards from the Adriatic from our side of the coast to the Italian coast because they have no place to work. And the jobs and millions of dollars that need to be provided for the service of the vessel, which should be put into service for the transport of goods and services on our own, and people in our space and not only our vessels but also foreign vessels using our waterways. Or waterways that are territorial integrity, sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and have the character of international or interstate waterways. Actually, there's no one to serve and there's no one... Therefore, we must start to debate this part quite seriously and in this context give some authority that the agency on behalf of the Republic of Croatia can be the bearer of investment investments and incentives for such things because I say again it is very important all the necessary for the safety of navigation on our, on our rivers and on our waterways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the particular question here is what about the destroyed and submerged waterway facilities that happened during the Homeland War. This should finally be cleaned up, and such things should finally be regulated, and certainly require not only a little change and addition of the law but rather more will and means to ensure that this existing law, too, is implemented. That's why we think this is kind of formalizing the problem for the simple reason why we actually work on waterways on our waterways. Practically do those units of our outpost agencies that do so within the framework or are located where the river ports of Osijek, Vukovar and beyond, and in fact the agency sums up the report it receives from the field. It's good for the agency to move to Vukovar, which is where we agree but it's not good to solve this, that the same ministries that should ensure law enforcement through both this agency and through river ports or port administrations. In fact, now all of a sudden they're going to throw their people into the agency, so it's going to be the hand of the menu, you know, how it's going, and some of you, and then in a situation like this, we're going to be in a position that nobody's going to be responsible for what condition we're going to have. I won't be surprised if we don't get into a situation next year when we're offered a broader change. In the first reading that we will discuss again that we are looking for that report that should be delivered regarding the work and state of the waterways that is in our possession because... We will now adopt and discuss, adopt a final draft of the law and that the report will not yet be obtained and in fact this Parliament will not have real insight into the state of the waterways in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If any damage is present, then the greatest damage is that we do not know the situation or take measures to correct this situation and that in fact these waterways begin to benefit the development of the Croatian economy and the progress of our entire country and the employment of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78943	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78944	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm particularly pleased that this law is changing and the agency's headquarters will be in Vukovar. Our government is, and this government has shown that it has fulfilled the pre-election promises and everything it has promised so far and I think it has shown its consistency. The Committee proposed for internal navigation, environmental protection, development, finance, agriculture, water management and one representative of Croatian waters. I think that this Committee and this Committee will have a great task of maintaining water and everything else, but also the Danube-Sava Channel, which is next year, we hope to begin work on the canals. Amendments and additions to the 2003 Law on Inland water navigation were aimed at harmonising the existing standards with the European Union directives in the areas of internal navigation. And the most recent developments adopted by this amendment were the establishment of the Internal Waterways Agency as a non-profit institution established according to the institutions. The task of the newly established agency was and is to build inland waterways in the capacity of investors under special regulations. To carry out technical maintenance and waterway and object marking activities, navigation security with a purpose of waterway management in terms of the provision of airworthiness and safety of navigation, navigation management. First of all, this law wants to change the headquarters of the Internal Waterway Agency. The current Act for Agency headquarters provided for the city of Zagreb, but during the draft agency and the beginning of its work, the implementation of its activities, which are very important for the marking of waterways and facilities, the safety of navigation as an orderly and technical maintenance of waterways, showed that it would be much more economical to have a seat of the agency where the activities are being established and this is near or on the waterway. As a central site connecting all the waterways of the internal waters, the logical city of Vukovar has appeared, and this change suggests that the Agency's headquarters be in the city of Vukovar. In addition to their reasons, the Agency’s headquarters in Vukovar is an ideal place to coordinate the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel that is nominated as a project of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has priority and is also the basis of the Inland Water Navigation Act. In addition, it should be pointed out that the Danube River is an international waterway and the Vukovar port is our largest port on the inner waters, and that was also the reason for this choice, not by chance. I must stress that Vukovar port will have traffic somewhere this year and transport somewhere near a million tons. It's a really port that every year by 20% and more increases the load and I think it's really the right place to sort of reward that port and the town of Vukovar with this seat. The second news is the harmonisation of the Agency's management board system, consisting of representatives of resolution ministries that have contact points with the waterways towards the resolutions of the competent authorities from which they come. Since, following the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Navigation, there has been a merger of the ministries, and thus the merger of the competent ones in practice has proved that two representatives from the same ministry should be appointed in order to satisfy the form, and now it is necessary to correct that circumstance and to list representatives who will be appointed in connection with the area of activity which is relevant for the work of the Agency, whether it has occurred or will come into the future to join the jurisdiction of the restor in... individual ministries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, by defining a general name such as the Central State Authority responsible for this and this will be overcome by an existing state which currently does not correspond to the reality of the situation... The proposal for this Act will improve and improve internal navigation, in general transport and supply of goods, transport of passengers by enabling the construction of new arrangements and maintenance and the marking of existing waterways, which is the task of the Agency for Inland Waterways, which is the task of moving these changes to work... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will make it more operational and capable with as little cost as possible to achieve the purpose for which it is established. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also an essential task to enable the establishment of a number of categories of airworthiness, inland waterways as required by international agreements of the Convention. We must stress that the Danube River is a waterway for all 12 months which is not in other rivers, and the future model of this kind is known and other European countries are allowed to coordinate and bring the legal and economic system of the Republic of Croatia closer to the acquis of the European Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78945	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary of the Ministry of Moira, Tourism, Transport and Development Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78946	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I would, in the end, just look back at the three remarks that Mr. Vice President of the Parliament made, which I was trying to explain in part in my introduction. In principle, it can be asked whether civil servants or representatives of resolution ministries should, must be seated, or be appointed to the administrative board of agencies or institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia, or are in conflict of interest if they are sitting in such administrative councils. I believe that when it comes to this Agency which is bound by the law to implement programmes, the plans established by the relevant ministries have been carried out, whenever it comes to the construction of waterways, at any time when it comes to protecting the environment, whenever it comes to water management, that this fact that in the administrative council, the Board of the Agency's appointed representatives of these ministries cannot talk about a conflict of interest. However, the fact that no one better can oversee the work of the Agency than those of the representatives of the ministries who have in their work and have established the activity that the Agency is carrying out. Therefore, the Agency is obliged to build a particular waterway, maintain a particular waterway, carry out all those tasks provided for in this Act, and for which it is then best to oversee the work through the Administrative Council by individual representatives of the resolution ministries. The second thing is that as Mr. Vice President has said, under the law, representatives of individual ministries oversee the work of this agency, and then they have no reason to sit on the board. In this case, it is purely professional business done in port captains and whether these inspection and quality control tasks remain in the ministry. It is clear that the administrative board oversees the work of the Agency in that section of expertise whether a particular waterway has been maintained under the Regulation on the classification of waterways, whether a particular waterway is marked as provided for in the Regulation on the marking of waterways. These tasks are therefore not supervised by the Administrative Board of the Agency, in which, therefore, the Management Board and the representatives of the ministries are sitting and these tasks are carried out by expert staff of the departments which monitor whether the Agency therefore maintains the waterway, whether it builds and marks it in accordance with the sublaws. In that part, it personally seems to me that it is good for the Agency’s Board of Directors to have representatives of the Ministry, so that they are state officials who are even obliged and in whose work is part and responsibility for the good functioning of the Agency. That's one thing. The second thing that also seems to me to be logical to this amendment to the Law, which I think should be supported, is to enable the Agency to entrust certain tasks that itself cannot do to other companies, to other legal persons, who will make clear to its account certain works from the work of construction and maintenance of waterways. In particular, it is possible to carry out horrendous activities on the maintenance and marking of waterways through the Agency's work, but in most of the major procedures on the construction of waterways, the Agency cannot, in any way, carry out those major operations on the construction of waterways, so, for example, several times today mentioning the Danube-Sava channel, which is based on the law and envisaged in the work of this Agency, so it is clear that, as far as it was well received, the Agency is not able to do this job, or that the project documentation for the construction of this channel was not able to do itself, but has entrusted this work to someone else, so that it is therefore the fact that such a professional example of construction or some other work would be done, and that certain professional operations would be taken out of the ministries that it was the administration itself. And the third thing, I'll repeat that in the first reading that was in July, we said that by the second reading we would prepare a five-year plan to build ports on internal waters and build and a five-year plan for the development of inland waterways. I said that both documents had already been made by our ministry and that in the government procedure, we had not yet delivered them to the parliamentary procedure solely for the reason that we wanted to adopt a state budget so that clearly after the budget was adopted positions, the budgetary positions that touch the work of the Agency itself and the basis of which the planned means of reflecting the waterways themselves were to the end accurate, accurate and that then they could enter the Parliament with a five-year plan based on the newly adopted state budget. This was the reason why both plans were not ready until the end, so neither the plan nor the five-year plan for the construction of waterways nor the five-year plan for the construction of ports on internal waters. And I repeat that both plans after agreeing with the Ministry of Finance will be at the first next session of the Parliament where all of this you, Mr Vice President, will be said, is one, one report, one review of the current state of internal waterways with the plan of their further development and the current state of port infrastructure and port substructure in inland waterway ports and their construction and development plans will be delivered at the next session of the Parliament. So these were the reasons why we weren't here my river I would have made a promise that I made at the first reading until the end, because their agreement at the government level coincided with the adoption of the state budget and some changes as a ministry were assumed so and were planned to build, in the making of both plans required certain changes through the implementation of the budget. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78947	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Vice-President Honored Representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78948	It is such an important question that I simply have to reach out to the Institute for correcting the incorrect allegations, because you yourself have said that there seems to be no conflict of jurisdiction, or conflict of interest related to the formation of this council. I have to say, unfortunately, not only does there have to be conflict of interest and conflict of jurisdiction, but you have to allow a few examples that explicitly confirm it. For example, the Ministry of Construction will have a representative among other things. It gives consent and issues building permits, local permits to build all objects. At the same time, in the Governing Council, they'll be building a program and doing everything else. Or the Ministry of Finance will have a representative at the same time. It is responsible for implementing the Public Procurement Act, and the Agency may, under special conditions, transfer those powers to others, i.e. that person will give an expert opinion on these other tasks. Or, say, when it comes to direct contracts, etc. So it'll be controlled. Or the Ministry of Finance should be monitored between the use and the cost of the budget of the appropriations. These funds shall be approved in the budget and for the work of the Agency. That I'm not talking about the Ministry of Agriculture or I don't know about water management, etc. So that's a very, very sensitive question. And among other things, I will conclude with this, among other things, the system and predicts, not only our own, but European, that in such cases, not to compromise the state administration and the executive power form exactly like these agencies as independent and independent institutions, non-profit institutions, so that, in fact, the ministries or administrations remain in place to enforce the laws, and these agencies to carry out their business. And the last thing, these port captains, you know who's going to be doing this, they're under the authority of the ministries. Well, it can't be a port captain who's under your jurisdiction controlled by a board of directors in which he's a representative of the central government. It's not working, you know. I mean, you understand, we're on our own... in the state administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78949	I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Inland Navigation. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 97 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed Final Bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78952	Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs, here are a few sentences regarding this united, unifying two points. The current Law on Public Roads, in its transitional and final provisions, stipulates that by 31 December of this year, persons with certain physical disabilities have, exercise two rights, which is a free toll on the roads under charge and when registering motor vehicles to release compensation for the use of public roads. As the deadline for the implementation of these legal provisions has drawn close to the end of the initiative, the HSS Representatives Club is to extend these deadlines simply. At the same time, however, the government prepared its own amendment to the Law on Public Roads on the principle that one who gave someone the right to be paid for and paid for. Like, for example. I don't know any pensioners in the city, from the city budgets of free transport, for example. trams, buses or similar benefits given by someone should and provide money to companies whose income it is. Therefore, the Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Roads goes a step further to keep these rights still, but introduces certain restrictions in the area where we have seen irregularities. It would happen if people with physical disabilities had more vehicles, and we now say that a person with that right can do it for example. by means of a smart card special issued and used in particular, but when using a free pass, that person who uses this right must be in the vehicle and must be identified. Because the abuses in that part were pretty big. The second thing, when paying tolls for use, when paying tolls when registering it was the lost income to the county road administrations that made these revenues edit the county roads. In order for the absurd to be higher, a free pass by a highway company whose income must be paid by VAT. So someone who gives a free pass couldn't avoid paying the VAT. The amendment to the state budget recently adopted here in the Assembly provides for an amount of 20 million kuna to be compensated from the state budget to these companies that charge for the use of highways, i.e. the County Road Administrations, that money so as not to be damaged by the users of that right, would not be damaged by those who provide the service, but the state budget would subsidise it, as is the practice whenever a subsidy is given. There is so much that the government's proposal is complemented by the initiative of the HSS proposal. They're basically compatible, but it's a little bit nicer to say, more sophisticated. Here, I think I'm yours. Based on this amendment, the Ministers of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and the Ministry of Finance will prescribe appropriate markings so that the matter can work well in practice. And that proposal is already being done because it has to be adopted very quickly to make this work since 1 January this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78953	Thank you. On behalf of the Club, on behalf of the Proposer and Club of HSS, the respected representative Ljubica Lalić will further explain the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Roads. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78954	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here's our chance today to discuss two bill proposals that are one goal, one goal and the other, which is to correct one injustice that has been created by amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads. According to the 1996 Law on Public Roads, all persons with a disability of 80 percent and 60 percent were released if they had the consequence of the inability to use a new one. Not only did they not have, they were not only freed from payment of registration fees, but they were freed and paid by road crossing fees, bridges, etc. By amending and supplementing the 2004 law, this article has been amended and simply these rights have lagging behind. However, in the 73rd article, it seemed to me that persons who had acquired those rights to amend and supplement the law had the right to retain until 31.12.2006. During this year, all clubs of representatives and the Government of the Republic of Croatia addressed the disabled associations with a request and a proposal to implement amendments and amendments to the law because that category of disabled personal car was not a luxury like many but simply an orthopedic aid. My club of MPs waited all the time for the government's proposal to appear because we didn't even want to get into a situation where someone was imputing us to do politics. However, at the end of the tenth month when it was seen that there was really no government proposal, we sent the proposal. This proposal was referred to as a first reading ready for all those remarks that will be made during the debate because we are aware that the application of the Law on Public Roads from 1996 was a major abuse. We have even been given an explanation that because of these abuses from the law, it is the right of those who need it most. However, the very fact that the law is being misused does not mean that this category of people needs to be abolished, but we need to find mechanisms to ensure and protect the state from possible abuses. And in this sense we welcome the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which therefore achieves the same goal as our proposal to amend and supplement the law was by being a little skeptical that in these 20 days and a few days or better said holidays will actually occur before Christmas time, the last week before Christmas when state bodies do not work. We're afraid the rulebook won't be made until 1.1 next year. I'll be overjoyed if it's made. Why? Because we wouldn't want to put the government in a position to act against the law. In 31.12.2006, the law ceases. Thus, the government must show by its example that the law must be respected. Here is another appeal, therefore, to make a regulation and sublegal acts that will prevent the abuses that have actually occurred, to prevent abuses. But even in interpreting the law when interpreting it, we must stick to the rules of the profession because we often attribute ourselves to the shortcomings of the law. However, they are not the shortcomings of the law but are, the defects are in our interpretations that are very often ecstasyal. So they bounce off the rule of law. However, you probably expect me to say now that we are withdrawing our bill. I said it on the boards, so I'll do it again. It is theoretically possible that the draft law in an emergency procedure does not get a parliamentary majority. Theoretically, in that case, it is certainly possible to remain our proposal in the first reading. If the Government's proposal gets the parliamentary majority and we accept it until the vote, and we will declare whether we are staying with the president's proposal or withdrawing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78955	Thank you. That's it. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78956	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is a small change in the current law and refers to one category that needs it – to the disabled 80 and 60 percentage people. So I don't repeat what the secretary of state said and colleague Lalic. It's clear what's going on. Therefore, no annual fees for the use of public roads are paid, and no tolls are paid. As that deadline came out this year, and this amendment does not extend the deadline, but in fact deletes that deadline and gives them the right to be granted permanently. That's good and positive, but we're like right now thinking about how we're gonna screw somebody up, we're gonna cheat. In this case, state and finance. There have been abuses, and I think it is good that the government has extended this proposal to the HSS and introduced certain restrictions and a proposal for punishment. Because we saw that there were 1305 people who reported it with the privilege of two cars. Even 80 people with three cars. This, having three cars and using the state advantage doesn't exactly look like a social benefit, and I think it's a good thing that the suggestion is that you can use a perk for only one car, and also that it's not being abused so that someone else's name takes a car and keeps driving along the highways and other roads that are charged, but that they really serve a disabled person and that the disabled must be present for the use of that privilege. That's good. But it seems to me that maybe the punishment isn't, the proposal for punishment isn't quite appropriate. It is proposed to punish the abuse of fraud from 500 to 5,000 kuna. It seems to me that there's a large range of 500 kunas and 5,000 kunas because there aren't any I'd say easy circumstances than if you broke or didn't break them. I know there was also on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications one remark where it was proposed to be a fine of 2 thousand to 5 thousand kuna. I think that really the promoter should think about it and accept it because the toll itself in one direction Split-Zagreb 157 kuna, and the penalty of the lowest 500 kuna, so if you go twice, catch you and pay the fine again. I don't think the punishment achieves a purpose, and let's just say by the record, it'll be maybe, and I don't know how much toll it'll be, so it'll sort of pay off. That's why I think, too, I think that this lower limit should be increased. And of course this proposal supports the HDZ club, and as the proposal consumes the HSS proposal, as counterpart Lalic said if this proposal passes, there is really no need for a second reading for this HSS proposal. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78957	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected representative and vice president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78958	Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleague Lalic. Let me immediately say that we at the SDP counseling club are happy to receive the proposal of the HSS law and, of course, we fully support it. We have no objection that the government has taken over the HSS proposal with its proposal and extended it a little bit, but in this respect we must say that we have some objections to this Government proposal because it is not a consequential idea of the HSS Club of Representatives to the end. That's the first one. Secondly, what we would like to say is that we are not going to make amendments to this law, but we are going to expose our remarks that point to illogicality, convinced that by the vote, the motionor himself will prepare the amendments and fix it. First, we would like to resolve one important issue in Article 63a. Actually let's hypothetically ask a question. Is the right to belong to a car or a disabled person? That's the key question. In this case, it is well stated in paragraph 1. that a disabled person who has 80% damage, physical impairment and who has been disabled at the lower extremities is 60% and is more entitled to the release of public road charges and of course not to pay tolls. However, in Article 2 of Article 63a proposed by the Government, the following is now said. That the minister will adopt a regulation laying down documents that demonstrates the right to exempt the payment of the annual fee for the use of public roads and the procedure and way of exercising the right by means of stickers. Now, the first thing is that it is illogical for the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison, together with the Minister responsible for the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, to bring this regulation, not with the Minister of Health, because in fact disability determines in a procedure that determines disability before the Institute of Pension and Disabilities Insurance, of course by the regulations implemented by the Ministry of Health. The second is said, these rights will only be exercised on the basis of the process and the way in which the sticker rights are exercised. My colleagues and colleagues are not entitled to the foundation of the sticker but they are realized on the basis of established disability of 80% of physical damage and 60% and more damage to the lower extremities that the Minister of Transport and Relations should establish with the Minister for Health, not family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. This follows in itself the assumption that Article 63 should be amended. If this right belongs to a disabled person, and not to a car, then we must not use the Institute of Stickers at all, but we must be able to clearly mark a car in which such a disabled person is transported and if such a marked car warns public road employees that he is in that car, he can check it and determine if there is an abuse of course he can be punished, but the principle that it belongs to a disabled person, not a car. Because this way you know, you'll have an X-time situation that in urgent situations maybe or because of the inability to have a personal car with a disability that has a physical impairment of 80% and more and damage to the extremes of the bottom 60% and more, you'll ask someone else to transport it, he'll have to pay all these tolls, and let's just say he needs it for medical services. ... Of course he has to be in the car, but he doesn't have a car sticker, he won't be able to make it right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You understand? Because you tied right to the sticker, not to the disabled, and that's not good. That is why we warn that this needs to be fixed so that it does not come to a bad solution in law enforcement. Therefore, the model proposed by the HSS is completely clean and fine. There says disabled physical damage 80% and more with damage to the lower extremities 60% and above, it has the right to release toll payments, i.e. public road charges. He has the right to, to prove it must prove his disability, or get... his disability and he when he's in the car he's freed of it. [[You don't understand.]] Now the question is why sticker, tie it to the sticker. It's just like the Road Safety Act, you know. You have that sticker that the technical exam went through for the car, so if you don't have a sticker, you'll pay 300 kuna because it's invisiblely marked, and actually behind that is a very important thing. The sticker doesn't prove anything. Because the only ID, which is a document that respects the court in both administrative and court proceedings, is actually a booklet, a technical vehicle book. So you can see how we make our own lives more difficult and more difficult in some things that aren't good, and especially when it comes to these categories of socially extremely sensitive, it's about disabled people. Of course, in such a situation, we are seriously asking the question that this part tries to correct and correct itself. So we are for the law, we are that these releases are fortified, we are for that right to belong exclusively to a disabled person, we are that the right disability can be used whenever it's driving or driving in a car, but we wouldn't just tie it to a sticker issue because it's cumulative, so be careful here it says "cumulative". In 63.b., a personal car marked with a label issued pursuant to the implementing rules of Article 63a(2) of this Act and if it is in person. So, cumulatively, it has to be both stickers and personal. That's not a good thing to correct. Our fourth remark is about a proposal for punishment. First of all, it seems like there's been no punishment in the abuse of this kind of thing so far, you know? That's not true. The driver who drives on Croatian roads, highways, etc., where toll is paid, if there is no proper release document he pays the price of the longest route and it is not small, it does not have to be for our occasions a small penalty. Therefore, this punishment is prescribed and it exists and is implemented in practice, by a regulation. That's the first one. So let's make up our minds right now that this isn't a matter that wasn't regulated at all. To be honest, the question arises if it is a violation in the form of punishment then it should be introduced into the law, not by regulation because it is not a matter that the regulation can regulate. And in that respect, we support that this change in 75a appears. But it is illogical, it is entirely illogical that the fine from 500 kuna to 5,000 kuna should be for this work equal to, for example, the work that is related, let's say, if it does not maintain the public road in accordance with the provisions of Article 18(3), it actually endangers traffic safety. Or if he does not take measures to eliminate the dangers on the public road, measures for safe traffic. For example, in Article 75, if it acts contrary to the provisions of Article 38(1) and (2) or I do not know, if it does not comply with the provisions of Article 40. It's just that you know about it... site and facilities on road crossings that prevent safe road inspection related to driving, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, what does that say? A responsible person will be punished from one thousand to five thousand kuna. Be careful, they have compromised the safety of traffic that poses a question of the life and health of drivers, i.e. those involved in transport and large material property. And this is just a violation of the fact that he probably didn't have a sticker, and the disabled is, according to this bill. That's why I think, first of all, that this bottom line is not logical, nor is this top one. And if this ceiling of 5 thousand kunas is to be introduced, then it can be discussed to be, I don't know, 500 or 1,000 kunas lower limit, but then it can't be this for responsible people this small. Then the whole article, let's say, 74, 75, of course, had to be corrected, corrected, modified and complemented, and that it would be harmonised because then, because you have a certain offence in the same law and their amounts that are actually inappropriate from the aspect not only of social danger but also parts that can cause and damage that can cause. As a result, we at the Club of Representatives of the SDP have one proposal that could actually benefit the government as a proponent of the final draft law. First, of course, to take the decision of the 63rd new article proposed by the HSS. Second, to correct 63.b on the label. And the third is to correct this question that is related to the consent of the Minister. This should be done, in terms of health care, I don't know, the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Third, to make, in addition to Article 75a, at the same time as Article 74 and Article 75 relating to the criminal liability of persons in charge of legal persons, if they have committed their actions to the life and health of those involved in traffic and, of course, to cause serious damage to material goods due to the missing of these actions, because they are, in effect, putting the road in the position of a dangerous element that threatens the safety of traffic. Because it's completely inappropriate, we're undermining again, that for the same act can be maximum punishment, this responsible person with 5 thousand kunas as a disabled person who has 80% body damage and 60% damage to the lower extremities in the situation when he comes in that he's possibly sitting in a car, forgot the sticker after the current solution to have on the car. I think that these things should be corrected because we still make laws for people, not for a pure form that should actually make it impossible for those who are in the most difficult situation to do that part to do. You know, people go or don't actually use the position of disabled people just so easily to execute some kind of call fraud. In addition, it is relatively small benefits related to the payment of the toll except for the longest route in Zagreb-Split. Everything else is actually under 100 kuna and it's not just going to be easy for people to get into a situation. We can't go with a bill of law that comes from the assumption that we doubt all people in advance. We are going to give the right to those who need it and extremely if the right to sanction is misused. Here, this is why we suggest that the vote be postponed, perhaps until the second week and that the motionor corrects these proposals by then, that is to say, to consider our remarks, so if he finds it necessary to correct it and to do so. We believe that it can also be interpreted as we have warned, and if it can be interpreted this way, then it will be a law that, instead of introducing order and security in this area, will cause doubts and problems that we do not need. And especially not with the categories of our people, our disabled people where they are particularly sensitive, not only physically but also mentally, given the understandable reasons and the accident that hit them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78959	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78960	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I will correct only one incorrect assumption where it was established that the regulation is brought by the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison without the Minister of Health and Social Welfare. In particular, it is clear from Article 63(2) who brings consent. So far, it has been said that the Minister of Health and Social Care is also in this Article 2 which will bring the rules on both users and the solutions on the basis of which the stickers are issued.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78961	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78962	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the Croatian Parliament, this Law on Supplements to the Law on Public Roads with the Final Proposal of the Law was a necessity and a need to meet the needs of disabled people, both civil and military disabled, and the initiative and HVIDRA of the Republic of Croatia as well as 100% disabled persons of the Republic of Croatia as well as civil associations and all those who are disabled persons in the Republic of Croatia. On several occasions, we have considered the possibility of amending this restriction that should apply until 31 December 2006, with a clear form that speaks about how and who can use these legal provisions continue. And the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this Act, i.e. the amendment and addition of this Act, is that it is limiting the time limit for the adoption of laws as well as those sublaws. The proposals that went so far were functional, but here as we can see were the abuse of the same and therefore I believe that absolutely for every disabled 80 and more percent of the physical damage, i.e. for one who has 60% damage to the upper extremity or leg should continue to apply these legal rules on the release from the toll, i.e. fees, annual fees for and tolls. As well as the collection of objects of road, highway, viaducts, tunnels and others, but I would only add to the secretary of state that the use of cars and the real need have disabled with... the disability of the eyes that also come from civil structures, but also from military structures, and they are not covered by this legal provision, so in the future it is necessary to think about or add something to the sublegal act that they also achieve their form. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is defined as such as motor vehicles intended for the transport of persons who can carry up to four passengers, one of four seats, and later as a personal car of a motor vehicle change for the transport of persons who, other than the driver’s seat, have up to eight seats and whose load capacity does not exceed 250 kilograms. This is all well-defined, I've only complemented what's required... The Republic of Croatia and the real needs to put in place some possibility for disabled people with 70% visual impairment that no one has mentioned so far the same form to come true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The thing about a sticker as one of those who exercise their right. Namely, so far, the label has been issued as I said after the solution of the Ministry of Health and Social Care on the establishment of disability as well as for people with disabilities 80% by solution and more percentages by solution of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity and therefore the sticker can still be used because there are different models to stick to a particular plate and stick to the glass and be transferred from the car to the car and it is actually useful when a driver or a disabled person uses a second car for their transport because there may be no own, but the toll and toll allowance is used once and only on one passenger car. Here I would draw attention to the fact that the actual toll charge is one-time if his car is broken, unless there is another way of transport to use it to free this road if someone else is driving it or using someone else's car. Here are the little things that should be agreed on, we welcome the adoption of this Law and we believe that you have already prepared and sublegal acts so that it can be used in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78963	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zdravko Livaković in terms of his work, his Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78964	Here's a little bit of something to explain why it's in the basic law at the end of '94. In fact, this provision has been passed. Directives of the European Union say that everyone must, that the service must be paid. So that company that provides a certain service has to charge a favor. I said in the opening statement, it happened that Croatian highways provided free service and paid VAT which was absolutely bad and inconsistencies. Otherwise, if you have an insight into Croatian highways lost 12.76 a year means 12 million and 760 thousand kuna a year, and county road administrations 14 million and 540 thousand. So that was motive, and these amendments to the law and regulations, I think we're going to fix it, or I think we've done it. The rules are passed by the minister, the rules are prepared so that it is not a complicated procedure and trust me that we are the first to be interested in doing so within the time limit prescribed by the basic law and these amendments and additions. Mr. Arlovic, here I suppose we have the same proposal, but it says nicely that I think it's okay to clean the lapus, says, "The minister in agreement with the minister in charge of the family, defenders, intergenerational solidarity and the minister in charge of health care." I understand that because certain rights are given by the Ministry of Defence on certain grounds, and other rights are given by the Minister of Health. So, in that rulebook, everyone's going to be involved, and I figure that's how I get it, and I think that's what's right here. When registering, it is necessary that the sticker still has that vehicle because it has certain benefits and when buying a vehicle to be marked and in case I don't know a cop on the road, it catches on the highway that it can recognize it, but the technique that makes free charge is actually a smart card. They're already using a smart card with a picture where the user of that benefit will actually be, it's maybe multiple insurance and on a smart card has a picture and a personal card, so that sticker is just in the smart card process, and no, that's how we did it, and I think that's okay. I'd end up with that. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, there were two amendments. One is the amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee that we adopt. And the second amendment is to the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications where it is proposed to be a single fine of 2 thousand kuna not to be between 500 and 5 thousand. Roger that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78965	Correction of the quote, Honored Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78966	Mr. President. Secretary of State, you're not, it's not a lapus, that's what I mean. I propose that the Minister in charge of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity be deleted because the issue of disability and in that category is determined on the basis of implementing rules and regulations governing health or pension disability protection, and the law stems from the Law on Defence and there is no need to participate in that part at all. And another question of smart cards, all right. I agree with you and in this respect you must have the opportunity to determine but not stickers on the car, it says here: "Tips stuck to the car."but about the status of the disabled who got it and on that basis you issue it to him. Therefore, there is no need for stickers, and when you put a cumulative one without a sticker, it will not be possible to achieve the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78967	And respected representative Ljubica Lalić, on behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78968	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's thanks to the SDP and HDZ club, which were obvious to the bill's proposals and that we've jointly established that these are two bill proposals that have one goal and we think we're close to it. As a proposer, by showing good faith, by wanting to work together with the government, I am also joining the SDP club's proposal to postpone the vote of Mr. Secretary of State and let's find a common solution that will truly be in the function of what we want. Our intentions are both yours and ours noble. And there is no reason to vote the day after tomorrow or if we succeed in making a joint amendment where we will remove these ambiguities and we will have a good solution that we will also withdraw the proposal. I mean, I guess it's all clear, but I want to say that it's not my desire to outsmart here, but to really get the most quality law that will remove any problems in application, but also eliminate the abuses that were certainly there. We won't lose anything if we don't vote Friday, but next Friday. Then it's the end of this session and then we'll have a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-06-0.u78969	Thank you. Even after the debate has been carried out, when the law is in an emergency procedure with the approval of the Assembly, the amendment may be submitted after the deadline if the applicant submits it. I'm concluding the debate on these two final drafts of the law. Continuing tomorrow with points 11, 12, 13 and beyond. Somewhere in the afternoon, we're going to have this child care bill. And now we're going to do point 12 with point 11. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Securities Market Act and then amending and supplementing the Customs Act, then this Convention, then the Act on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Restaurant Activity. Continuing tomorrow at 9 p.m. and 30 p.m. Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Roads. The amendments submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications were accepted by the applicant. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 98 votes in favour, 2 abstentions of the proposed law along with the amendments adopted.
