ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56143	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology, second reading. The adoption of this Law with the already adopted Law on Forests, the Law on Forest and Reproductive Material and the Hunting Law will complete a comprehensive business of adopting a completely new legislation governing the forestry sector. Foresting and wood technology as economic activities play an important role in the overall economic and social life of the Republic of Croatia. In the gross social product, forestry and wood processing participates with about 5% but no common useful forest functions have been evaluated here. Thanks to historical circumstances and almost... The professional work of Croatian forest experts on the principles of sustainability of management Croatia has preserved its forests naturally and stable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The FSC certificate for the state forest shall bear witness to that. In connection with the classical economic role of wood as one of the products of breeding operations in the forest, it, prodition, restoration, or rejuvenation of forests is an important raw material for further processing and processing that binds many different activities to the forest to the final product. Transport, production, fuel, oil, tools, machines, equipment, shackles, colors and varnishes, glass, textiles and other. Ecometric research suggests that 8 cc's of wood raw material from forest to final product provides one job. In addition, unlike other wood processing industries, very few import components are required and fall within an extremely clean industry. In recent times, even the least valuable wood varieties, huge wood, tiny granium, waste, in the wood technology process are increasingly gaining value as a renewable energy in the production of heat and electricity. Equally, the use of biomass for energy purposes is a qioto protocol to reduce CO2 emissions by 5% compared to base 1990 according to the period 2008 to 2012. After graduation, forestry and wood technology engineers have been trained to carry out professional tasks, but not for the designers of new programs, as they do not have experience and a professional exam. At present, there is no legal obstacle to any, however high-level professional job being hired by an under-educated expert and without greater responsibility for the quality of the work done. The authorised engineer, after completing university education, certain practices and in the profession, will be able to carry out independent and professional activities from his professional field and public authority tasks which have been passed by special law from the original state authority to non-state entities. Independently design, evaluate projects, guide, monitor the performance of studies and works, control quality, be a judicial expert and others. Professionally, morally and materially be responsible for your work, and above all protect your profession and employer. The establishment of the chamber will ensure order on the labour market both in the field of forestry, hunting and wood processing, and in other areas of the economy where the presence of relevant engineers is necessary. In addition, the chamber is established with the aim of promoting the protection and representation of the interests of professions, legal and natural persons performing tasks in the activities of forestry, hunting, wood processing according to the criteria of European and world practice. The final text of the law on the Croatian Chamber of Wood Technology Engineers included most of the remarks and proposals from the first reading in the Croatian Parliament as well as additional remarks from other authorities that improved the first proposal and contributed to the future easier implementation of the law in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56144	Thank you very much. The Agriculture and Forestry Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56145	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The Republic of Croatia does not have an institution in its legal system to gather forestry and wood technology engineers who, while maintaining high criteria of individual responsibility, would act independently within such an institution. This role can only be played by a professional chamber that promotes the interests of the profession of legal or natural persons performing tasks in the activities of forestry, hunting and wood processing, but according to the criteria of European and world practice. The Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology exist in European countries, they are set up as independent or classes within the national engineering chamber, and it is therefore necessary to set up with us such an engineering chamber that, during our approach to the European Union, will create conditions and prepare our forestry engineers and wooden technology for equal market performance and competition on that market. Foresting and wood technology as economic activities play an important role in the Republic of Croatia. High-level personnel are required to work in this activity. These staffs are educated at the University of Zagreb State School. After completing the studies, these engineers are trained to carry out professional tasks, but not designers of new programs because they do not have experience and passed a professional exam for these jobs. Such opportunities result in consequences on the labour market such as, for example, the unquality provision of services and unfair competition. This profession of forestry leads to levels within which jobs cannot be carried out responsibly. Following the establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Technology Engineers, order will be introduced in the market for the work of forestry, hunting and wood processing, as well as in the area of economy where the work of those engineers is necessary. This Chamber should be an independent professional organisation that has the property of a legal person, it should exercise trust and public authority, preserve the reputation of the profession, honor and rights of its members, ensure that authorised engineers carry out their tasks knowingly and in accordance with the law and code of professional ethics and promote, represent and coordinate their interests with state bodies in the country and abroad. The Chamber shall establish and maintain a list of authorised engineers, issue authorisation documents, adopt an ethical code, establish a price list of services, provide insurance to members for the damages that can be done by carrying out the work, care for the specific professional training of members, organise the submission of expert examinations and others. Members of the Chamber shall make their interests known directly in the professional classes and indirectly in the bodies of the Chamber. The professional classes of this Chamber are the class of forestry engineers, the class of wood technology engineers. Member of the Chamber may become a person who has completed university education after a certain practice and passed a professional examination. The right of use of the professional name authorised engineer is obtained by enrolment in the directory of authorised engineers of the Chamber. The authorised engineer shall carry out independent and professional activities from its professional field. Members of the Chamber, i.e. Authorised engineers are responsible for violations of duties and reputation in front of the Chamber's tenacity bodies. In addition, they are also responsible for the damages they can do to third parties, etc. Therefore, such responsibility and obligations in our legislation in relation to forestry engineers and wood technology did not exist at all in the performance of its tasks. So he could do whatever he wanted both quality and unquality. The Chamber will be supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. The proposer of this Act has embed most of the remarks from the first reading in the final draft of the law, but in our opinion representatives in the HDZ club should, however, supplement some of the following articles. In Article 5(1), the power of the Chamber to carry out expert examinations for authorised engineers should be laid down by adding a new subparagraph in accordance with the specific regulation adopted by the competent minister by virtue of the provisions of Article 50. Forest law. In Article 23, it needs to be amended to specify more clearly the conditions of enrolment in the directory of authorised engineers in view of postgraduate education and the acquisition of PhDs in science. The State exam is not a condition for enrolment in the Chamber of Authorised Engineers and should be deleted from the provision of this article, it is a condition for working in the State Services, but not for membership in this Chamber. It is necessary to amend Article 39 in order to enable the applicant to make applications possible in the procedure for serious infringements of duty and the reputation of the authorised applicant's right to appeal. By adding a new Article 42, the questions of the right to enrol in the Chamber of Engineers who, on the date of entry of this Act, have been trained for 10 years in a way that allows them to enter if, within 2 years of the date of entry into force of this Act, they submit a request for entry into the Chamber of Authorised Engineers. During that time, enrolment in the Chamber will be possible only to those engineers who pass the expert exam. Mr. President, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56146	Thank you very much. Since amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate on second reading, this should be taken into account. IDS representative club, respected representative Valter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56147	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me speak with a few words to the IDS Club on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology. Forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia cover 2 and a half million hectares, which means a little more than 43% of the land area. This data is very clear that the Republic of Croatia is rich in forests, and even internationally recognised is the fact that 95% of the forest area is natural. It is precisely because of these facts that our responsibility is even greater to protect the forests and to master them in the best possible way and most importantly to further restore and forest the unprocessed forest surface where possible. The proper way of forest management supports the biological balance but also meets the international conventions that we are signatories to. This way of forest management requires higher levels of expertise and significantly higher investments than modern methods, raising cultures and plantations. It is of paramount importance that the forestry of the Republic of Croatia has almost abandoned the cultivation of forest areas, making it more difficult for other countries of the European Union as the nature of their forests is well below the level prescribed by international conventions. The establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Forest Engineers and Wood Technology will also ensure order in the labour market, both in the field of the work of forestry, hunting and wood processing, and in other areas of the economy where the presence of forestry engineers is necessary. By establishing a chamber, forestry engineers will be equated with their fellow construction engineers who founded their chamber in the 1990s, with chambers being effective and not being used to expand bureaucracy. The Chamber shall be established with the aim of promoting the protection and representation of the interest of professions, legal natural persons performing tasks in the activities of forestry, hunting, wood processing according to the criteria of European and world practice. The activity of the chamber includes representation, representation, advisory and development function, promotion of the development of the profession, care for specific professional training of members, care for the code of professional ethics and determines professional obligations of staff. The chambers of forestry and wood technology engineers exist in European countries and are designed as independent or as a class within the national engineering chamber. Of course, high professional work in the field of forestry and wooden technology also requires highly skilled personnel. Today in Croatia, they are educated at the University of Zagreb University of Schumar, but after graduation they are trained to perform professional tasks but not for creators, designers of new programs because they do not have experience and passed a professional exam, so we cannot consider them authorized engineers for certain specific jobs. The authorised engineer shall carry out independent and professional activities from its professional field but shall also carry out public authority tasks which have been passed by special law from the original state authority to non-state entities. An authorised engineer can design, evaluate projects, conduct and monitor studies and works, control quality, be a judicial expert and others. Professionally, morally and materially, he is responsible for his work and above all protects the profession and employer. An authorised engineer may become after completing university education, professional practice and a professional examination. And let me get this straight. Due to the great diversity of plant and animal species as a result of the forest tradition of more than 150 years old in Croatia, there must be an example for us to take on an even greater burden of responsibility for the protection of our natural forest resources. And by establishing a Croatian chamber of forestry engineers and wood technology with the development of certain amendments that are attached to us, we will certainly contribute to the protection of our natural and forest resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56148	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative, Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56149	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I believe the minister from the second cabinet is also listening to our proposals of the law. Here, let me say a few words on behalf of the HSS Club on this proposal of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology. Speaking of this proposal, I am sure that in the introduction I should say a few words about the importance of today's natural forests that we have in Croatia that they need to take place throughout society. When we talk about this, we should certainly mention these over 40% of forest areas of which the state-owned enterprise has the largest share of these forests with an international ecological standard. But I wouldn't owe much for that in the introduction. It's mostly already more or less familiar to everyone. In the proposal for this law, it should be said that it aims in one way to introduce even more high-quality work into the forest profession itself, primarily in a way that gives certain powers for certain jobs. Since it is known that we have already regulated several chambers in our country that work as an architectural, legal or other chamber, I think this profession, which may not be involved in the GDP itself, with a lot of some 2.5% but can certainly allow for a better development in the future. Therefore, it is also necessary to pass this law which will allow, above all, professional services in forestry and in the wood industry to be carried out primarily by our experts who will be given the authority and there are a number of reasons why this is necessary. First of all, it is necessary to look at the area of the wood industry today that large imports of various types of furniture are present and that we often get some kind of certificates that are such that they can pass in the dam while at the same time allowing imports primarily of some cheap goods. At the same time, we have professionals who can control it and who can make certain remarks that some goods and services could not even be introduced to us. It is also necessary to say that since we have natural forests in Croatia and which as such are among the most famous in Europe, it is necessary to take further care of them in the right way and this is possible only with professional people and with those who will have a certificate that can prove that they can do this job. That is why it is especially necessary now that we have passed a new forest law where we have regulated and that part of the forest that has so far, which has not been managed, I would say in an adequate, professional way. These are the part of the private forests where we will now introduce the advisory service, and also when we talk about that part, we must say that one part of the forest that will be returned to the church will now fall under the same condition that it should be organised. I believe that even part of the authorised engineers will find opportunities to do these work within the meaning of private or church institutions. Furthermore, it should be said that today we may also have a good part of private companies doing certain jobs in the profession without having an employee of any of the professionals in these jobs. It often happens that we also have accidents at work and injuries in these jobs, and precisely because jobs are not done in a professional way and that no one controls them properly. For this reason, I think it is necessary to make it possible, first of all, to establish a chamber, then through education and through exams, to get these powers and to take further care of this work through the right way, and precisely to preserve the nature of our forests that we have today and we can freely say that we forests are particularly proud. Here I would conclude in the end that the club of HSS will support the proposal of this Law and here I can say on behalf of here a colleague of the Croatian Forest Society that thanks everyone who supported the adoption of this Law and I think it will enable it to introduce I said more order and better and better quality forests in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56150	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56151	Dear Mr. President, of course I will personally support this Law of Children's Attitude towards the forests of all kinds and the forests of the stribors and because of Zeljko Ledinski. But I don't think it's a good idea that this House has no strategy to organise professional Czechs and that the logic of fragmenting professional organizations has been accepted. In fact, out of about 40,000 professions that exist in modern societies, only 20 professions have the right to aspiration for professional status. So from priests, journalists, writers, lawyers, public notebooks, even university teachers don't meet all these conditions so they can fight for professional status. It would have been much better if Croatia had chosen a model that still dominates most European countries, which is that there is a unique chamber of engineers that is divided into engineering classes because with this development strategy we will be in the situation very soon and that other engineering groups will mean electric engineers, shipbuilding engineers, engineering engineers, agronomists and others will ask for special laws to regulate this matter. We find ourselves in a situation that we have already experienced as an example of the D.A., where instead of one occupier, we have three and four of them already. And we're going to meet up with a situation that I know best and I'd like to say a few words about. It's a Czech organisation in the field of medical care. Traditional medical treatment in this area, in the area of Central Europe and in Croatia was represented only through one professional association, it was the Croatian Medical Assembly. For similar reasons that have been behind the initiative of forest and wood engineers, the initiative has been withdrawn to establish, in parallel with the existence of the Croatian Medical Assembly, the Medical Chamber and the quite unnecessary Medical Union, and now we have three professional associations that are in mutual conflicts, which have different professional and what is very important material predisposition to work. Since the chambers for reasons unknown to me have acquired legal rights to collect membership fees for example, the Croatian medical chamber is an extremely rich institution. It receives an annual of 10 thousand doctors, I suppose, at EUR 100, and thus has value in its own account of over EUR 1 million. These others are the rest of the poor. And that is why I would like to see Croatia in the field of professional organisation or of the Czech or maritime organisation go a little more seriously at one of the future sessions of the Parliament and bear in mind the fact that some professional associations who fight bloodyly for professional status. For example, in the area of a nurse, there is no way they can compete with doctors for full autonomy. And I'm going to end this, my pledoies for a conceptually broader problem than the one that solves this law by saying that one, one occupation of these 40,000 professions should be satisfied in order to achieve professional status. It must have a stable clientele. It must have a stable earthly and this concept should be revived in Croatia, an earthly organisation that goes from local to central national level. It must have extended professional education. She must have ethical codes. They must have elaborated license systems. Some of these conditions are met in the proposal of this Act but I am afraid that a general process of fragmenting professional organisations in Croatia will happen and, unfortunately, only after 10 or 15 years of age will grow one awareness that it is much more rational from the point of view of accounting, from the point of view of the PR, from the point of view of general rationality will have one organization, for example, such as the organized Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and then have a visible engineering organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56152	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56153	Mr. President, I agree absolutely with Mr. Letica, and our efforts were also when we set up the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction to go to the establishment of a national chamber for all engineering professions and that is exactly the kind of chamber that was abolished in 1946 in Croatia. We had a long tradition in Croatia of organization, engineers of different professions which were all included in one chamber. At that moment, however, there was no readiness for other professions. I, as the man who was involved in this, would be very happy to support the initiative, as well as the presentation of our club. We have just stated that it would be useful to establish an engineering chamber where everything now, in fact now we will only be two, they would become professional classes, or the professional classes of these chambers would become the professional classes of a national chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56154	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Latica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56155	... So this wasn't really a replica, it was a support. [[Specially enabled.]] And to you, Mr. President, to take advantage of your position to come up with the following initiatives, then the representatives of different engineering associations are gathered and to try to think about adopting a generic law that would settle this in the way we talked about my colleague, Chirac and I.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56156	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56157	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Forests are planted for grandchildren and great-grandsons. Since it is an exceptional economic branch in my deep opinion, Croatian forestry science and profession today, and in the future it must answer three basic questions, which is the rise of forests, forest management and the exploitation of wood, i.e. wood technology. Today in Croatia we have under the woods, according to some estimates, again depends on what source is used, but it is here somewhere, about 2 million and 400 thousand hectares of forest. Of these 2 million and 400 thousand hectares of forest more than 900 hectares of debris, we have between 350 and 400 thousand hectares of troubled, under the alleged signs of "woodland", which is forest land in Primorje Croatia. The real forests are in the continental part of Croatia. These forests are very few in Primorje Croatia. Unfortunately, they have been created for the last 50 years in exactly those areas where vineyards and olive groves used to be. Then we were deserting vineyards and olive groves, and there were pine trees growing, and there was a maquis growing, and there was a second self-increasing growth, and there was an illusion of the forest. This should be brought to culture today, and therefore Croatian forestry science and profession have an exceptional importance. Let me just say one more thing, here is here in front of us the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology. We are also scheduled to discuss the Croatian Peasant Party's proposal, which is Croatia's agricultural chamber. Right now, let me say, this law... I'll support the engineers of forestry and technicians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the agricultural, Croatian agricultural chambers cannot support it, nor can they be against it. It's necessary as super-dry water. But before that, fellow Letica also spoke about all other fields and all other professions, unlike forest science and professions and forest management, we happen to have more than a hundred associations in agriculture today. There is hardly any major Croatian political party without its own association. And then we ended up ruining everything and what good the associations should do and now one of the parties is going to start a chamber again, instead of the state doing it. And that is why my strong criticism to the Croatian state authorities is why they have not already started, such as in the world of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, or given far greater importance to the already existing sector of agriculture and forestry within the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and not again that any parties set up their associations and are then manipulated. But, well, that's just what I wanted to say as a dypression. I'm not against it, but I can't be against it either. I will support that at the moment when it is in the function of the general good, and especially Croatian peasants. I support this because I am deeply convinced that Croatian forestry science and profession will answer these three fundamental questions that I have just asked and that in Croatia, in particular, it will go after the fact that the land which is now the master of the Croatian forest is controlled. These are not forests, it's just one problematic self-inflammation, especially pine trees that create such problems for us, and it's no wonder why we have so many fires in Croatia in the summer, as opposed to continental and central Croatia. Even in the past few years, there has been very strong evidence that fires have been deliberately caused somewhere to make people more fertile, and then when it is seen to have burned down, it can be seen that there was once a terrace on which olive trees and vineyards had grown. For example, in Croatia 70, 80 years ago there were more than 30 million olive trees, and today, however we count, this figure is somewhere between 3 and 3 and a half million. As for the continental part of Croatia, this profession is very good, but of course it should stand even more and take care not to go into overexcessive exploitation, especially an oak tree that is valued not only in Europe but also in the world, here, those who deal with this problem say to us, if we had 20 times as much forest under the oak tree to buy everything from us right now. And to conclude, I support this, and I hope that Croatian forestry science and profession will answer all the questions that are currently plagued by this economic branch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56158	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Lončar, he probably misread that it would be the Croatian Chamber of Engineers and Technicians. So, the technicians in this case are not involved in this chamber, given that membership in the Chamber, that by joining the Chamber, an engineer is actually going to become an authorised engineer with everything he has to, all the conditions he has to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56160	Replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56161	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here, with a few words, I would like to refer to here the presentation of my colleague Loncar and tell him that the Croatian forest profession has answered all of today's modern questions that appear before the forest profession. The evidence itself and just before in the debate stated that Croatian forestry today has an international ecological standard as the only forestry in Europe and the Croatian forestry profession has answered all the questions you mentioned. He would also refer to the part you're talking about the Mediterranean area, if we hadn't responded there. The areas you're talking about, I understand you're agronomous, and normally you're talking about these surfaces, but they were mostly agricultural areas, and they're now in our catastrus not like forests, but they're still running like agricultural areas. They were abandoned because of what was not rightly managed by them, but not by the forest profession, but rather by the agronomic profession that did not work and in the past time tried to process the part, and the foresters were just the opposite of making sure that the more surfaces had to be quality and forested, to be quality masters with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56162	Replica reply, Honored Representative Ivo Lonachr.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56163	Well, I agree with my colleague Ledinski in a lot of things, but just to clarify these 350 to 400 thousand hectares under the forests of the coastal Croatia. Maybe I didn't say this before. I had no intention of saying that Croatian forestry science and profession did not answer many questions, but I asked three questions that it should now and today and in the future because of this economic branch answer the questions that I am now pressing. And as for these forests in Mediterranean Croatia, so please just go to the Pelješac peninsula and you'll see, here I have to mention it because it's a beautiful example. Vinogradar Ivo Skaramuća, when you look at each man, plays his heart out when he looks up from the Dingač towards the sea, it is to see for the magnificent. When you look up from the sea, it's even more magnificent. He raises olive groves and vineyards, and there were pine trees that were only disturbing, it's not a forest and you know very well as a forest engineer that it was solitary and only because they were abandoned and now in many places when the fire happened or when those pines began to collapse, you will see still the vineyards, but you will also see the newly produced olive reeds. So I advocate that this land should be ruled out, because that land is now the masters of the Croatian forest and that it is returned to the right owner, which is agriculture, of course it would not happen, because we Croats are specialists to be thrown out, so that crime does not happen or what-what upsides but under the auspices of the state to take care of it and all those who want to bring it to culture and our coast and islands make it even more beautiful and that there, instead of these nakaradic pines, there are olives, vineyards and other Mediterranean fruits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56164	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56165	Thank you, Mr. President. Since this is about the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Forest Engineers and Wood Technology, I would also say something about this wooden technology because I see that this is only about forests, and part of it is normally our processing industry, so I would like to point out and agree entirely with everything Mr. Letica and Mr. Širac have said about various Czech associations, because we have seen many inscriptions in the paper, especially about the Croatian Chamber of crafts, that their entire work comes down, and this is also a Czech association, that their whole work comes down to sending that magazine to those crafts once a month, and I would not want this association, this chamber that is being founded, that in the same way, it works. The final wood industry is defined by us as the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. However, in the last ten years, this branch has lost one total annual income at a difference of rates and recognised official inflations, and it comes down to the fact that our final wood industry has actually sent a European Union service. Why? Because we buy logs of 100 euros and export 300 euros each, because it makes it easier for Croatian forests to get money anyway, because sawmills do this job far faster and then take it out than they do in case they need to make furniture. Why am I saying this? I speak for the simple reason that the question arises whether this Czech association, which is now being founded, will be merely a prelude to the wood industry and no benefit from it, as we have seen with many Czech associations, is happening in this way. Because all these Czech associations have the ability to raise funds and raise their own funds. As they spend it, control is practically inconclusive and gone. So the question arises whether it will be just an imposition, or whether it will really be a Swedish association that will do something for both the forestry and the processing industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56166	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, MPs. Here's a very short answer. There's no obligation, this chamber is established the way it's founded. It is precisely prescribed from which it will be financed, meaning paid by individuals, authorized engineers by their enrolment in the directory of authorised engineers. The pram has absolutely no talk of any intrusion especially to the wood industry, not to the final industry. This law in my opinion must have a good operational application, especially as we have a very complex process waiting for us, which is the process of restructuring the company "Croatian Forests". Through this restructuring, businesses need to increase efficiency, reduce operating costs. Part of this clearly will be privatised through the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises that will be linked to forestry. These works can be performed exclusively by registered and licensed contractors, that is to say through this law is prescribed and means these jobs will be carried out through their own engineer. It will be retained and will improve the current skills and quality of forest work. That, in my opinion, is the most important value of this law. Surely there are other obligations that arise from this law that are very important, and I mean primarily the promotion and development of the forest profession, and I believe that this profession that cares for almost 50% of the land area of the Republic of Croatia deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56168	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Technology Engineers, second reading. The amendment was submitted by representative Marko Širac. Secretary of State Herman Sušnik, please be aware of the amendments. Amendment one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56170	Amendment number one is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56171	That's this table with the amendments on, first on this list on 347 and.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56172	All amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56173	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes for, 3 abstentions and 3 against the proposed conclusion. The law in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Let's go to - Final bill on the sale of apartments intended for the master of the residential building, second reading, P.Z. No. 304 The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, work, social policy and health and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Minister for Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction Marina Matulović Dropulić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56175	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I also said when I talked about this Law in the first reading that it was this, that this Law on the sale of apartments intended for residential building managers and for families located in common areas of the building is a priority for resolving social issues. In fact, you all know together that we have close to a thousand families whose status so far has been unresolved and that we propose to be resolved in the way that we write, which we are in this proposal, to the final bill. In this final proposal, we adopted the opinions and proposals of our Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. The difference between this law in the first reading and the law in the second reading is that we included the detailed owners in the whole process. So, those detailed owners who bought the apartments the moment the houses were built. It is not about those owners who have become the owners of the House Sales Act and we find that they have the right to market compensation for their work. So that part, I mean, it's been a lot of trouble for all of us, and I think we've solved it with one of these proposals. So these floor owners will get from units of local self-government different from the market price to the price to be determined by the sale, I think that will be determined by the basis of the formula we gave you here. By entering into force of this Law, all those who are located in apartments acquire the right position of protected tenants. After that, means more, procedures cannot be conducted against them, but over a further 6 months, people will be able to apply either for the purchase of that apartment or for the determination of the status of the tenant. As regards the revenues to be obtained by selling these apartments, the incomes of the supervisory apartments are the incomes of the local self-government units because these apartments were also owned by units of local self-government. And when the sale was done, the flats weren't sold. Their value didn't go into the credit card, and they weren't bought. Therefore, they remained owned units of local self-government, and those apartments that are located, so those parts or those apartments that people themselves have adapted, and they are located in common rooms, those co-owners in the building get income from these, from selling these apartments. So I think that this way we've corrected those illogicalities or, come on, injustices toward the first-readers and we suggest that we finally solve this problem and that these thousands of families can live normally on without any worry. Now, I'm asking you to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56176	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, labour, social policy and health care? Committee President, Honored Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56177	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 46th session of the Committee held on 24 January 2006 discussed the Final Bill on the sale of dwellings intended for the head of the residential building, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 8 December 2005. The Committee discussed the Law as a home working body in accordance with its powers, i.e. the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening statement by the proposing representative, the Committee members supported this Law in the debate as well as during the first reading. It has been pointed out that it is a priority social issue and a solution to the legal position of persons using supervisory apartments. The management boards are not covered by the provisions of the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law. Well, that's how no ownership conversion was carried out at the superintendent's flats. In addition, it is not clear whether they are subject to the provisions of the Law on Renting of Apartments, whether or not they are paying a protected rent, so the solutions provided for in this Act fill in the existing legal gap and regulate these issues accordingly. During the debate, the opinion of the Committee on Sustainableness of the proposed solution was also expressed in which, in the case of co-ownership of the municipality’s supervisory apartment, i.e. the City of Zagreb and former floor owners, one co-owner decides on the sale on his own. During further discussion, the majority of the members of the Committee were of the opinion that this Law proposed a permanent solution to the legal position of persons using supervisory apartments and allowed about 4 hundred users of those apartments to purchase the apartment in which they live. After the discussion, the members of the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament most of the votes with 1 abstentions for the adoption of the Law on the Sale of Apartments, intended for residents of a residential building in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56178	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56179	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the Final Proposal for a Law on the Sale of Apartments intended for residential building supervisors. This Act regulates the terms and conditions of the sale of apartments intended for the owner of a residential building, together with the common parts and appliances of the building, with the belonging part of the land, and the way in which the price of the apartment is determined. The provisions of this Law also apply to the sale of dwellings that were created by the reuse of common rooms in a residential building. On the basis of this Act, the right to purchase an apartment has a person who, by November 5, 96, has moved into an apartment for the owner of a residential building and lives in it all the time, and who until 19th of June 1991 on his own cost, with the consent of the tenants, or the expensive tenants or former local communities, has spent the re-purpose of the joint premises in a social property in an apartment for the needs of their own apartment and lives in it all the time. In the light of the provisions of the House Rental Act, it is laid down that persons who use an apartment intended for the superintendent may not be evicted until a specific regulation has been adopted. However, this solution has not permanently resolved the legal position of persons who are used by supervisory apartments, but it is not permanently resolved, nor is the issue of the ruling apartment itself. Namely, the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household right in the sale of a specific apartment to the person using that apartment from the title of acquired housing rights enters into the price of the apartment next to the other elements the value of the useful area and the secondary part, as well as the value of the common parts and devices of the building. However, the credit card did not contain a rating of the master's apartment as an element of an increase in the value of the apartment, while the apartment intended for the head of the building was also credited as a special part of the building for the purpose of determining the level of the rent paid by the head of the building to the SIZ, i.e. the Housing Fund. It is a special part of the building that remains in the conversion process and remains socially owned because it has not been paid value or its value indirectly through the price of each apartment. By entering into force of the Property Act and other real rights, the apartment has become the property of units of local self-government or is co-owned by units of local self-government and former floor owners. In particular, taking into account the social situation of those persons who are now using these apartments, it is possible that, in the event of the inability to purchase the apartment of persons, the legal position of the tenant with the right to pay the protected rent in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the rental of dwellings and, despite what I have said, it is proposed to regulate the issue of those persons who have spent their cost on the reuse of common premises, so storage, laundry, etc. in a social-owned building in an apartment in such a way as to allow them to purchase the apartment under the same conditions as the persons who use superior apartments. The right to purchase this apartment is acquired by the persons who had been told to re-intention until 19 June '91. the year, so until the day of entry into force of the Law on the sale of dwellings in which there is a tenant right, with the consent of the tenants of that time, i.e. the gatherings of tenants or former local communities. The funds resulting from the sale of these apartments belong to the owners, i.e. the co-owners of the building to which that apartment belongs, i.e. if they wish, those funds can be deposited at the expense of the joint reserve of the building. And to conclude, therefore, this Law has a strong social note in it, which solves about a thousand cases of the users of those apartments that acquire the right to purchase an apartment in which they live and a permanent solution to their housing status. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56180	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56181	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. It's hard to tell if this law is going to get better or whether those people who live in these superiors' apartments, unfortunately, are doing another injustice. What is certain first is good for these people to be allowed to buy an apartment, it should be welcomed as the adoption of this Law may also be convincing to address the issues of those who live in so - called “the Law. ” Nationalized apartments, which have and receive so-called protected rent. It is clear that I advocate that those people living in these nationalized apartments also come into a position to buy out their apartments where some of them live for 40, 50 and 60 years. What do I see in that possibility? In that case, the Law on the sale of apartments intended for residential building managers states that the municipality-City of Zagreb will receive an asset from the sale of the apartment to the head of the building, and that they will mean that. The municipality-City of Zagreb pays the former floor owner a market fee relatively clear with its co-ownership. That should be the principle of the so-called. Nationalized dwellings, the tenant means buying an apartment, but the market fee should be paid to the owners by the state responsible for the non-resolvement of the issue, more precisely brought into one extremely unequal position or by the extremely unequal position of those tenants against the other residents who, according to the Law, have implemented, quote: "The transformation of social housing." Now, I regret that either me or one of my family didn't have some kind of transformation at some social apartment, so we got something worth 100,000 today, not the marks, but the euro. I also regret the owners of '46, 47, '48. that regime nationalized the property. I am also aware of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and the fact is that the then communist rule by nationalising apartments has done a huge injustice, sometimes by putting them in the basements, and the apartments and villas have given one new ruling nominclature. That's certainly unfair, that's correct, but how? So the state pays the real owners of these apartments the market price of the apartment that the current tenants inside will buy, and I said some of them live 40, 50, 60 years, and we can't go with those people on the street like it happened with the owners in the 40s or 50s, but you can't. ... In '45, that's right, and in '41, but you can't even impose a real market rent because in that case 90 percent will also come to the street. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But let me go back to this law again now. When it's done, it means so-called. Turning ownership over social housing where there is a household law, that's the definition that the law uses, and that kind of apartment in Croatia was almost 400 thousand, I think the more precise number of 360 thousand of which 300 thousand was built after '45, so much for not doing anything before, these apartments were sold for 10 to 20 thousand marks, some for 5 thousand marks. O.K., apartments sold today in Opatija, Pula, Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Zadar, Dubrovnik are not worth 100 thousand, 200 thousand, some 300 thousand euros for 10 or 20 thousand marks. I am opposed, however, to the fact that individuals today sell their apartments at market prices and make enormous profits. So, use the apartment, but if you alienate it again, you're going to have to offer it to the municipality, the city for as much as you got it, clearly it's going to revalorize your price. It would be fair as it would be fair today to say that farmers de facto for nothing to gain land, to bow down to them, but if they want to sell it, then they will offer it again to whoever sold it to them. And not that tomorrow when the construction area of Poreč, Umag or Pula is extended tomorrow, a property that someone will buy for a kuna or two per metre tomorrow is sold for 100 or 150 euros. That's not fair if we give it to someone. And they should be given land for nothing. This Law on Overlords is in one way unfair. First, it's good, it's okay to allow these apartments to be bought by those tenants. But the price is not what the gentlemen were for 400,000 residents in social housing, but it is the price from POS that means from this encouraging housing, more specifically, the Law on Social Encouragement. For example, in Buzet and so it was elsewhere in Osijek, Split, Zadar, it doesn't matter., 90 and 91 apartments of 100 square meters, new apartments sold or bought, however, for 10,000 marks. Today they would say some 5,000 euros. Clearly, yesterday and today, these 5,000 euros or 10,000 marks are not the same, but today as we call them in Buzet, these POS apartments are sold for 850 to 900 euros. Or yesterday, '90. It means '91. when the average salary was almost a thousand marks, which means 500 euros about how much today you could buy 100 square meters of apartment for 5 thousand euros and today you can buy 5 square meters in Buzet. Now, in a position like this, we're bringing in these tenants. In a way, according to that 360-400-thousand-thousand army, that's not fair. It is true, now that these apartment overseers conclude with them an apartment purchase contract will be relatively easy to obtain. Well, every bank will get into their lending. But will these people who are mostly poor because if they weren't in those apartments be able to decide on these loans because the loans need to be returned clearly and after we've awarded the accounts to the notaries and after we're soon to form private companies for the collection of unpaid claims, it's hard for someone to pay off the proper payments in the apartment. I especially mean here when I say "poor" to those who are signs of laundry, from storage, from the basement, from the attic, have arranged their own apartment. In fact, it's those superior apartments that this poor girl lived in. In addition to these persons, I dare say that another category in Croatia has been severely disproved. And I think they're craftsmen of the so-called. city spaces. We made it possible for the tenants to buy the apartment. Okay. It's okay. We're allowing the authorities of this law, and that's fine. We give farmers land, and that's fine. We gave the tycoons hotels, banks, factories, for them it's clearly fine, for everything else I guess it's not. We shall forbid them work on Sundays. That's it. Forgetting that neither the church nor the unions fill the budget but those craftsmen certainly do. What is certainly good and that is this Article 4 that is fair, logically that the rights behind the deceased etc. have passed away. they acquire a spouse or a family household member. That's logical, correct. It was not fair when, for example, residents of military dwellings in 1991, in 1992, they had to pay at market prices extra squares which managed to change there in 2000-2001 to correct the injustice. Nobody's talking about it anymore. People forget it, forget it, even who helped them with it, but let them. Article 5(1), (2), (3) knows, I would call it the Institute for the Return of the Refugee Population. These two deadlines are mentioned in 1996 and 1991, however, I absolutely welcome the return of the refugee population, yet there must be no dualism between the population and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have continued to live here. The time limit for the submission of a six-month application referred to in Article 9 shall be fine. Article 10. Determination of price with a reduction of up to 20% for necessary and useful costs, let's say it's fair, maybe not. Maybe we should really determine what they are. Article 12 needs to be paid off at once. I would point out that although someone from the local self - administration may call me for it but perhaps in some ways as much as possible when fees per Wednesday bring this law closer to those laws of 90 and 91, respectively. The 2% interest is certainly fair, Article 13 of the State's Attorney's Office clearly predicates. All in all, better this law than no law. However, when it comes to disposing in these apartments, Croatia is waiting for a huge job primarily with those like I said living in nationalised apartments. The price from POS for this poor woman may not be right, although certainly every well-intentioned law like this will welcome and say better than nothing, let's take care of at least one category of citizens in our first major cities from Zagreb, across Rijeka, Osijek down to Split. So we propose to take care of the material position of these people, that the law is more consistent with those of the 90s and 91s, and the very spirit of the law is clearly to be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56182	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56183	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague Caine. First, he said about selling social housing that they were given to people. They weren't donated because they sold under the law and most of these people worked for 40 years and gave out just for that part of the living. Thus, they cannot be said to have been given something if they today have a thousand and 700 kuna. What else would you say to pay a hundred thousand euros? ... That's how it was, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Second, about banning work on Sundays. Croatia has solved this meaning by the Labour Act but also by an international contract with the Holy Table because Sunday has been found to be an unworkable day, and in Austria it is even a criminal act, and you are fighting for trade chains that Austria and Germany cannot do. And we'd like to work on Sundays.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56184	Okay. Okay. Let's limit ourselves to corrections. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56185	Thank you very much. counterpart Cain cited various structures that were indeed disfigured, but he did not specify the one that was most disfigured. And these are those citizens who have worked their whole life, worked their entire working life, singled out in SIZs for residential activity, and live in the country and never had a chance to participate in... I'm just correcting the assumption that it's not those groups that he said were the most deficient of all, but that there's one that's even more severed, and these are the ones that never had a chance to taste any apartment besides that housewife who made it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[Employee: A colleague of Mark's correction quote please.]] And it's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56186	Dear Representative Vlado Jelkovac Peace of God! [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56187	Your Honor, Mr. President, my first colleague Cain talked about everything more than the specific law he was talking about, and I would correct one of his allegations where he linked the dates in 1991 and 1996 with the exiles, with the returnees, with the departures, with the returns. That's not the point. It is about the fact that in 1991 the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law is then attached to some of the provisions of this Bill, and in 1996 the Law on the rental of dwellings to which the sale of those other dwellings concerned is adopted. And that's all there is to it, and no exiles or returners.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56188	And distinguished representative Zeljko Pecek. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56189	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that we here in the Parliament have done nothing for craftsmen regarding the sale of business space. That's completely incorrect because I had one proposal just like that. He was taken over by DC, though. We passed that law. The problem, however, is that the Law says that everything regarding the sale of business space to craftsmen will be passed by the Government by its regulation. It's been half a year, and that regulation is gone. So the government didn't do enough, just so I don't say anything. We in the Parliament did what needed to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56190	Dear representative Zeljka Antunovic on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56191	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the sale of apartments intended for housing managers, we in the SDP consider as one law that should correct injustices. This time, not the injustices committed in the previous state, in the previous social order, but the injustices committed in this country. Done exactly in 1991 when the Law on the Sale of Apartment Laws was passed, which was mentioned earlier by a colleague named Jelkovac. Right away, I'm going to say that the SDP will support this bill. I would also like to say on behalf of the SDP that we appreciate the work of the Ministry and the Ministers who finally had the courage to deal with this problem and at least take part in a big problem which, even after 15 years, this country still does not solve, and it does not show the true political will to the end and to a fair solution. It's about another law that should correct the mistakes and the drastic social insensitivity of those early 1990s, 1991. I would even say at that time often times and the interesting calculation that the then ruling HDZ demonstrated at the very beginning of its power. The problem of supervisory and housing built on common areas of buildings whose solution this Law really offers could be solved at the time of the privatisation of social housing. I don't think you need to explain to the entire Croatian public why it was the right time to get rid of it. Because at that time it could have been much more just, because one step could have been sought a balanced and just solution for all participants on this or the other side of the privatisation process. For both former owners and tenants and tenants in such or similar apartments, we can also talk about the good part of the recently mentioned outstanding business space issues, or some business spaces. Then why wasn't it done? Because then, as today's HDZ is neither responsible for real assistance or the care of its citizens, but only interests or pressures that potentially threaten the political position of the ruling. Both 1991 and 1992 as well as today, as a reason for the adoption of the Law, responsibility is not given to fair solutions to citizens but rather to dry economic and legal reasons. They are indeed standing, but they must, it should, that is, our opinion in the SDP, there is also the responsibility of the state or the responsibility of the authorities to the fates of their citizens who have found themselves in situations where they are not their own guilt and responsibility, but the circumstances of such or such arrangements. Even today, the reasoning of the Law does not state that this responsibility to the fate of people who have been using the apartments in question for decades and who have grown up and raised their children, today many of them are already raising their grandchildren, and they still feel completely insecure, exposed to various legitimate or unwarranted pressures. Decisions in the law are so far the most fair and balanced of what, which could have been talked about or talked about in similar situations in the Assembly so that users, but also the owners involved here, should be satisfied because they will privatise the apartments, secure themselves from litigation and eviction on the street, and the owners of the buildings because the money from the sale will belong to them or to buildings owned by them and market values. In 1992, if the money had been collected from all these years, it had been collected from the sale of apartments at least part of the job of housing citizens, many of them would have missed experience in this country, difficult experiences of court disputes and conflict or of the worst, evictions, evictions, and in this case I mean both owners and users of the apartments. Because they're both facing each other and left to conflict with each other, and the one who's the most responsible, which is the state, got out of this problem. We in the SDP also have some serious objections to this law. In fact, they refer more to what is not in the law, and it should be, rather, to the legal solutions themselves. Namely, there will remain some issues that can be resolved. What's going to happen now, for example? with apartments built in joint premises of buildings that in those days, who knows for what reasons and in what situations did the unwritten consent of the tenants or owners of the building of the then conditionally said owner of the building, but have no paper square? There's only a clue that they've invested large funds and in something that was a laundry room or shed built apartments and today they're apartments, much more valuable squares of a building. A serious observation also applies to supervisory dwellings, or parts of the so-called ‘supervisory’. official apartments or parts of the so-called official apartments in schools, health homes or the like institutions throughout Croatia. The fate of the tenants in those apartments remains unresolved, remains open. Why? Because there's probably no legal vacuum in their situation. Because taking care of them would cost the state. In fact, we in the SDP are looking for a solution and we advocate a solution to close these cases in such a way as to make sure the users are taken care of in the apartments that are built by the state. We don't think it would be good to privatize apartments in schools and make part of the school become, to make school co-ownership with some private owner of the apartment. We think that these other situations that are still in place in Croatia would be a good solution so that these apartments are sold. We think it would be good for the state to build new apartments and take care of those tenants in those apartments. Someone will say there's no money, that it's expensive and there's no money in the budget. That's an argument we don't admit in the SDP. The state's been since the '90s. by 2000, by various legal and sublegal solutions, many have made it possible for bigger or luxurious apartments to come to the expense of state money at elite expensive locations, while ignoring those who have been threatened by one of the fundamental human rights, a safe roof over their heads. I'll remind you of many cases of political and at that time untouchable military summit. The recipe was simple. We read about it in the paper, but there was nothing we could do. State money buys a expensive apartment that costs several hundred thousand marks, second day is awarded and sold for 10 or 20 thousand marks. But you know who. Such apartments could not have been reached, for example. those members of the Croatian Army who are still fighting a battle for existence and a roof over their heads, in Pula, for example But that's why different people could come along that I would call, put everything together under one common denominator, under one nickname: "Royce." Someone will say that the HDZ is responsible for it then, and that today HDZ had nothing to do with it and had nothing to do with it. Maybe. Except that in today's HDZ and its very top there are many who have acquired large and valuable assets in this way. And that is why we should have a little more sense of responsibility for those who have not felt a shred of justice in that privatisation. The Croatian state cannot and must not be a mother to anyone, but someone to be a stepmom. Namely, who came in when the property was inhabited is his mother and everyone else's stepmom. The Croatian Government, which swears to European values, must face obligations towards its citizens arising from the principle of equality of citizens or because of the discontinuity of legal and political order. This or any other government. We're not looking, we're not asking in the SDP to give anyone anything without compensation or on the burden of other people's property. We ask that finally all unresolved housing relations inherited from the previous social order inherited from some events during this country be resolved and that the cost of these solutions be shared fairly and in solidarity. The only possible arbitration officer in all of this is a state that will be able to help and share the cost with the citizens themselves that are needed, let's call them tenants, as with the owners with whom some unresolved relations should be resolved. And that's the only possible solution. I want to say another critical thing in the end, but this time compared to SDP. We were in power for 4 years and failed to solve this part of the problem in Croatia. We're aware of that, but we've solved other problems. We had some coalition reasons, some burdens we couldn't do. We accept our responsibility, but precisely because of this responsibility, because of what we have not done, we will insist that appropriate solutions be found within as short a time as possible. We know that the ministry, the competent ministry, is trying to look for these solutions, and we will support them if they are just and solid, as we advocate, as we believe this is exactly what we have in the debate right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56192	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56193	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleague Zeljka Antunovic said: "This law corrects the injustice that has been done to citizens, not the rule of the former state.". Dear colleagues, I have worked very hard while I was a minister and studied the legal status of these people since 1946 when they were confiscated in 56 when they were nationalized buildings. Never has the former government in that country given these people tenancy rights. If she had given them tenants' rights, they would have bought them neatly under the Law on the sale of dwellings in 91st year than those poor people remained in a hired relationship to maintain their friends as superiors but without a tenant's right to give them a leg whenever they wished.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56194	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56195	Dear President, I am correcting two incorrect allegations by my colleague Antunovic. The first is related to the status of supervisory apartments in schools and kindergartens. It is incorrect that these apartments under the former authorities' rules were exempt from selling, but now that this Regulation has ceased to apply they have the right to purchase those apartments under the Social Property Sales Act and I would ask the Ministry to issue an official notice on that part. And about this part about conversion and privatisation. Your criticism is correct. We've made up our minds. Anything that's guaranteed should be returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56196	Dear Representative Vlado Jelkovac, third Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56197	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to correct two allegations. The first claim by Mrs Antunovic that neither the HDZ then nor the current ones have social policy and that they have no responsibility for the fate of their citizens. This is incorrect, and it is incorrect because this law proves the opposite because there are thousands of people who will be able to resolve their housing issues permanently, as well as mostly social and social, then protected rents that are offered unless they can buy apartments and all the terms of the sale. And the last thing I'm going to say on your claim that HDZ is not changing. How is HDZ not entitled to change and communists can transform into social Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56198	Fourth correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. counterpart Antunovic, the former and current HDZ Croatian government has sought and proved today with the proposal of this law to be responsible for its citizens and this is one sight unlike the SDP government and SDP, irresponsibility to its citizens whether the SDP's responsibility is three times resolved by the SDP president. Is it a responsibility, is it an irresponsibleness or is it a privilege? And my second quote incorrectly, and yet you said one great indecisiveness and inaccuracy. It consists of that you could not solve these problems because of coalition partners, you call the Croatian Democratic Community the HDZ Summit and always to enrich what is said and cannot be proven. Export the names of 200 families, you will find 99.9% of all SDPs and communists on that scale.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56200	Fifth Amendment, Honored Representative Ivo Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56201	Mr. President, Madam Minister. counterpart Antunovic said in a number of her incorrect allegations that the vast majority of HDZ's innkeepers have been inhabiting apartments. That's just not true. I would personally like to do that list-by-list analysis once, so if you want to see who's in the pub and in those apartments. You were four years in power you could have done, in the election you promised the voters, you didn't do it, let's sit down together and do that analysis to shed some light on your face and ours in front of all our voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56202	Honourable representative Ljubica Lalić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56203	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the sale of dwellings intended for supervisors, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club welcomed the attempt by the competent ministry to regulate the legal position of persons using supervisory apartments and persons who, with the consent of the residents of the country's own resources, arranged common rooms for the needs of their own residence. Now there is a second reading before us, and it is a shame that the applicant has not considered all the remarks and tried to find solutions that would be inconceivable and represent a lasting solution, because the attempt has been but unsuccessful so far, so that the legal position of those persons has been undefined. The fact is that today, former overseers or their successors live in dwellings intended for overseers during the conduct of their duties. The fact is, they can't buy these apartments, they don't have contracts to rent, and they sure as hell don't pay anybody rent. Their fate is uncertain, and the uncertainty of part of the citizens requires the state government to try to resolve it. We regret that under pressure from individuals, the government has given up trying to solve the problem of protected tenants who are also in suspense. It is true that associations cannot agree on a solution model, but that disagreement only harms protected tenants because the current situation is the worst possible for them. The evictions take place almost daily, which clearly does not concern those who have solved their housing problem, so they are truly no longer interested in a systematic solution. The unrealistic and unsustainable demands of individuals prevent a legal solution, and the adverse consequences of those who have not been resourceful through life, using various methods and disadvantages of the law, not only provide for an apartment but also for a house. The current situation is unsustainable and the regulation of these legal relations is with us and it will have to be resolved regardless of the opposition of individuals from associations, mostly leaders because the majority of membership is for the fastest resolution. But let's go back to the law that's before us. Its aim is therefore to regulate the legal position of persons using supervisory apartments and persons who, with the consent of the tenants of their own resources, have arranged common spaces for the needs of their own housing in a way that enables them to buy that apartment. The right to purchase would only have those persons who had moved into an apartment by 5 November 96 on the basis of a valid legal basis and lived in it all the time. The right to purchase would also have persons who, with the consent of the tenants of the time until 19 June 1991, had spent on their expenses the re-use of common rooms in a social-owned building in an apartment for the needs of their own apartment and lived in it all the time. This would end the uncertainty for about a thousand citizens. It is good, but it should be done in a way that is consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party is also very much in favour of solving this problem, but also in a way that will be lasting and unsustainable. Namely, here is the fundamental question of who owns the apartment where the master lives, i.e. who owns the space the tenant has arranged for his own apartment. According to Article 6 of this Proposal, the seller of the supervisory status is the municipality, the city, or the City of Zagreb, in whose area the apartment is located. This provision also gives rise to the assumption that the promoters of the Law are owners of the municipalities, towns, or City of Zagreb, because only owners and nobody else can sell the property. We don't even know who owns it today. Buildings in which supervisory apartments and refurbished premises had management rights only had administrations and stakeholders, but they were not owners. The purchase of apartments with tenancy rights privatized apartments, but not supervisory apartments and space for joint use. It is true that the sale of a special part of the building, a specific apartment, of the person who uses this apartment from the title of acquired housing rights, includes the value of the useful area from the secondary parts to which the apartment rights are extended, but also the value of the common parts and devices of the building. The owners of the apartments are joint owners of those parts of real estate and real estate devices that serve all the owners of special parts of the building. However, the score sheet did not contain a point in the ruling apartment as an element of an increase in the value of the apartment. That fact would point out and point out that it was a special part of the building that remained unprivatised after privatisation because it did not pay the value for it, nor was it established. The conclusion, however logical, is insufficient because property must be unequivocally established. Furthermore, in the second part of the supervisory apartments ownership is known. These are the owners of apartments that have a provision in their apartment purchase contracts: "the purchase price includes the price of the supervisory apartment in the corresponding amount", the quote concluded. These supervisory apartments are co-owners of other apartments and their property cannot be limited. Their co-ownership but themselves can't be sold. Therefore, the constitutionally questionable provision of Article 8 which in paragraph 1 states: "The seller of the apartment referred to in Article 1(2) of this Act is on behalf of and for the account of the owner of the residential building is the municipality, city, or City of Zagreb", completed the quote. Without consent or authority for such proceedings, no one may appear on behalf of or for the account of the owner. By trying at least partially to protect the non-infringement of ownership, the proposer shall embed a provision under which the established owners have the right to a market fee in proportion to their own ownership. This reminds the Institute of Execution with the letter of the Law. Furthermore, according to this proposal, the apartment will be able to purchase a person who, by June 19, 1991, spent on his expenses with the consent of the tenants at the time, or an expensive tenant or former local community, spent the re-purpose of common rooms to the apartment for the needs of their own housing. The consent of tenants and expensive residents is completely understandable, but the consent of the former local community is completely incomprehensible. Unlike the municipalities and cities of the local community, they never had the right to have real estate. Only owners and co-owners could give consent, but not a local community that wasn't the owner. If such consent was in practice, they are without a legal basis and can qualify for abuse of power. Take, for example, a building with 50 apartments. None of the residents as authorized gave consent to the re-use, but the president of the local community gave it. We're wondering, of course, whose name and interests did he represent? The interests of the tenants who had the right to use the common premises paid by their householder certainly did not represent them, nor did he have the right to represent them under any law. Article 10. defines the value of the apartment and says it is obtained by the multiple size of the apartment and the etalan price of the building, is reduced by the amount of depreciation, and is reduced by the amount of own funds invested if there were until the moment of purchase of the apartment. Therefore, neither the price of land nor the price of infrastructure nor the price of connections for electricity, water and gas is taken into account when determining the value. The price, i.e. the value of the apartment does not even affect the location, so the same value is the apartment, for example, here in Grič and the one there on Žitnjak. It doesn't seem to make much sense or justice. Special attention should be paid to Article 15(3), which says that the contract on the sale of the apartment is implemented in land books regardless of earlier records. This provision devastates the entire land-book law in the Republic of Croatia. The reason for such a provision cannot be explained that in most cases the municipalities, cities, or the City of Zagreb are not registered as the owners of the building in which the apartment is sold, but as co-owners are registered third parties. The city, the municipality, or the City of Zagreb, is not registered because they are not owners, and this Law gives them the authority of the owner. It's just not possible. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will submit amendments, depending on their fate, will also be the club's position in voting. I would like to point out once again that we are very much in favour of resolving issues and buying out supervisory apartments. We are also in favour of resolving the question of the so-called protection of the tenants, and precisely because we truly advocate that this problem be permanently solved in a secure way, we are in favour of a law that will be indisputable. And it is in this function to help this law enter into unsustainable, to give security to those who suffer extreme uncertainty today for this very reason and to propose amendments for the best and most noble purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56204	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56205	Mr. President, counterpart Lalic stated that local communities under no law had the right to participate in the procedure in order to conclude a contract or agreement with those people who had rescheduled the premises to the apartment. That claim is not correct, you misread the explanation of the Ministry of Spatial Planning for one simple reason because the Law on Housing Relations that was then in force of the municipality had to adopt sublegal regulations that had never been passed, the dwellings were managed by SIZs for residential and municipal affairs and asked the local community to conclude those contracts. If we were to eliminate it now, we'd be reunited with a group of citizens if I couldn't buy an apartment under this law, so that's what this is all about. The local community did not conclude the contract, but gave consent and was called upon to agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56206	Second correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56207	Well, I'm correcting the fact that, in fact, an esteemed colleague, it's true that local communities played a very good role in all of this and that all of those acts that were given by locals at that time had legal power. It is also an incorrect second part of the quotation because, according to the laws, it has passed to municipalities, or cities in which it is located, according to the laws. So that's two inaccuracies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56208	Thank you. We're terminating the debate. Resume at 3:00. It's on behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS, MDS, the Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56209	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, continue the session. The first is the PGS Club of SBHS and MDS, Mr. Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56210	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary. Here, let me take a brief look at the final proposal of the Law on the sale of apartments intended for apartment manager on behalf of the regional party club. Our club will support this law, because we agree and therefore think that it is indeed a priority social issue and resolving the legal position of persons who use supervisory apartments that have not been resolved so far. Moreover, supervisory dwellings were not covered by the provisions of the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household right, and thus no conversion of ownership was carried out in supervisory dwellings. In addition, it is not clear whether they are subject to the provisions of the House Rental Act, whether or not they are paying a protected rent, so the solutions provided for in this Act fill in the existing legal gap and regulate it in an appropriate manner. We would also like, therefore, some clubs that have also spoken, to warn about the problem of protected tenants and also to appeal to the government to try to solve this problem as soon as possible, which is very burdensome for a large number of our citizens. We hope, then, that this will soon be settled on the principles of righteousness and equality. What we would like to warn more about, and what we have in some way articulated with our amendment, is the need to ensure that the dwellings in which these apartments are treated with this law are more often and quality and renewed, and that the basis of this law provides the necessary resources. So by walking through the City of Zagreb, especially this older part of it, we see that there are many abandoned derouting buildings, buildings that are often monuments of culture and for which it would be very good for them to be restored and become very important and tourist attractions. There are such buildings in cities and places throughout Croatia, so we think that the funds achieved and the foundation of this law would therefore contribute in the right direction. That is why we have proposed an amendment to Article 7 where, in paragraph 2, we would add another sentence, so the item says first that the compensation referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is paid by the municipalities, the city, or the City of Zagreb, from the funds achieved by the sale of the superior apartment. So we are talking about the funds that must be paid to the floor owners, and we think that the rest of the funds that belongs to the municipality, the city or the City of Zagreb, should go to the expense of the joint reserve, so that they do not end up in the budget, so the global total budget of the municipality, the city or the City of Zagreb, should be special items intended to restore these buildings that I say are already older buildings and which need immediate reconstruction. So we hope that this amendment of ours will be accepted, and then we will also support this law in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56211	Thank you very much. At 15.06, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. It's HSP's turn, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56212	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. One of the fundamental programming principles of the Croatian Party is social sensitivity, meaning taking care of workers, peasants, pensioners, unemployed, and it is very pleasant for us in the HSP club to surprise this legislative proposal to finally and here show full character and social sensitivity to these thousands and some people who are waver of weaker assets, but we are not surprised because this is still coming from Minister Marin Matulović-Dropulić, who does his job well and who, unlike other ministries, gives suggestions that are far and more quality and solve what needs to be solved. So injustice is injustice, and anyone who has found such injustice must remove it and there is nothing to say in this part. But I must also warn of one fact that through this part of the law, so I will pray for answers from the minister, I can carry out a tycunisation of the common rooms on a small door. Namely, take just a variety of examples that we have learned about the City of Zagreb, that many dignitaries do not tell lawyers or other professions, have attic spaces that are over 300 and some squares. So it's not about this poor thing, it's about a thousand of them who are waving, they're basement apartments, they're inappropriate and they're going to have to invest a lot to bring their purpose in. So I say we express this part of the concern that, through the provisions of this law, if they are not properly implemented, i.e. the fact that the situation could happen, and I say that I am also a city councilor in the City of Zagreb Assembly, I know of such situations, that the dignitaries from the City of Zagreb have a ceiling space, not a small one, which means in the heart of the city or in attractive locations. And as much as I have information, they've already prepared one full file. So it will be primarily necessary for the implementation of this law, and I refer to Article 5 and what the Association of the Owners of the Republic of Croatia indicates in its address, because they also have such information even though they also made comments on the other nature of Ms Ljubica Lalić. So we have to stop it. We must prevent this good law, meaning to resolve the issues of these thousands of families who are weaker property and who have long had to be resolved and who should have been dealt with so as not to put some new tycoons on that train. Because you know what it means, let's say, 300 and some square meters of attic space in the center of Zagreb, when it's bought out, it's going to be the point, which is going to be the price of a square meter, probably 4-5 thousand euros. Therefore, I ask the Ministry and the Minister to take measures so that such things in practice don't happen because of the fact that the part will essentially work for cities and municipalities in terms of this part of the sale, so one really effective surveillance has to be introduced so that the good thing doesn't go wrong again, that is, these various tycoons wouldn't take advantage of it, and they're still hiding something that doesn't belong to them. And in the end, I just have to mention the problem that the Croatian Party Rights Club is pointing to. It refers to apartments in railway stations in the Republic of Croatia that have not been bought, and we have been informed by the applicants that in many of these apartments the tenants were entitled to rent. So, I would like an answer in that sense, that is, to take such measures to solve this issue. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56213	Thank you very much. Minister, please, Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I wanted to look back at these, the club representatives who spoke, at least say a few words about it because I think it's necessary, so that it doesn't happen again in an individual debate. As far as Mr. Cain and the IDS Club are concerned, they've obviously mixed all the laws into one law. So, the Law on the Sale of Apartments and Laws on Rentals and various kinds of things, I mean everything that applied to that. So I don't think we have anything to talk about, we can only say about the price. As far as the price is concerned, we have determined that the value of the facility would be 700 euros per metre square metre and agreed with the people, so what are with their associations that this is an appropriate price. Why? Because today, the victims' dwellings cost just as much as the value of the ethlon. After that, certain means, going down amortization, going down funds. Therefore, we think that this is an appropriate price and that the other price cannot be determined now. As far as the SDP Club is concerned, I am sorry that Mrs. Antunovic made so much bile that we should, that we should have settled it in 92, 91. The fact is that there were mistakes and certain things could have been solved, but just like she said and the former government had four years to solve the problem. Thus, that part could be dealt with in that way. However, what is not good in such a debate is one review of the apartments that were purchased after, from various institutions, from the MORH, etc., which she mentioned after 91 and that they spent on it large funds, and then these apartments were redeemed. That's right. But we also have to, in some cases of course, not everyone, but us, because a lot of these apartments have been rented, therefore, or for official purposes. But we have to remember what happened 90 years ago. Also, working organizations, municipalities, cities bought apartments and assigned apartments, and all those people who kept investing and never got anything are also a special problem. Therefore, I do not think that we can talk about this and that the HDZ Government is doing, as well as today, offering proposals that, in any case, address the problem of social or not to say social cases but to a weaker property situation. The HSS club and Mrs Lalic say there could have been better solutions. I'm not saying it wasn't, but we prayed to all the clubs in the first reading, we asked all the representatives and other people to help us solve this problem and try to solve it together in the best possible way. We've talked to some members of some clubs, but no one's given us any different suggestions. So we offer what we think is good, what we think is, that it can pass. We've consulted a lot of lawyers, and I'm saying, whoever has a better proposal today, there's no reason to change that part and not fix it. But the fact is no one helped us. As for the consent of local communities, I think Mr. Shirac has talked about it quite enough. Local communities used to have great power. And these local communities were able to do a lot of things, and it's not true that the SIZ had no right over those dwellings where the janitors were. Because afterwards, the legal followers of the SIZ were municipalities and cities. And the SIZs are some people who came to these apartments as overseers, they were usually people who worked in heat networks and who were supposed to worry about central heating, and some people got some kind of solution, and some even got housing rights from the SIZs. And they bought apartments peacefully and neatly, bought apartments unlike these other ones who either had no such connections or had no such opportunities to do so, and then these people remained in a completely unspeakable situation. So they're not either, because the Law on Renting Apartments is said to be dealt with by special law. However, this special law has never been passed. So now we're proposing it, and we think it's true, and I think it's good, and that's the only way we're going to be able to solve some things and those thousands of families that I've been talking about trying to solve in the best possible way. We're very concerned about protected tenants. You all mentioned protected tenants. We know it's a big problem, we had some solutions. However, there is no common language in this regard. One, clear owners, have their own, protected tenants have their own and we've now taken the first step. We did, and we invited people, and we put a public call into the paper to have people call us to see how many, how many, how many, uh, people like that are there. Because from the owners of the apartment we got information that there are 3,000 such apartments, but from protected tenants, we got information that there are 7 grand somewhere and 13 grand, whichever time they get that data from, and from which resident associations they get data, we get that kind of data. It's too much of a difference for us to be able to offer at all. Because that amount of housing also depends on how many states will have to isolate all other things. Therefore, we take care of it. I'm also asking this way to get as many people as possible to bring in that file or, you know, a secure lease contract or some kind of proof that he owns the apartment so we can even get those indicators. And finally, just a word about this, what Mr. Kovacevic was saying and the fear that someone would not do something beyond this law. I think we're secure. Namely, we found that only those who were until '91. In 19.6. means entering such apartments, adapted such apartments can now occur within 6 months of the adoption of the law. As far as the attic is concerned, they have been subject to the Law on Property of Article 372 and, as you know, probably a large part of the people have long been owned by the court by these attics. Thus, that part of the one was resolved, however, and then it needed the consent of the residents or the same local community for those people. And the third thing, the State's Attorney's office has the right to control every contract, so we think we'll all make the best possible solution together. As far as the railways are concerned, they're mahogany apartments for official needs and apartments for official purposes just can't be sold, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56215	Thank you. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go. He's giving up. Thank you. The second is Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. I support this Final Proposal for a Law on the sale of apartments intended for residents of a residential building. I think that this is one of, in fact, I don't know a fair law that has been offered to us here for adoption, that is so social and just above all, and about that quality, I think the starting point should have just been to propose all the laws. Somewhere this is possible to a greater or lesser extent, and I think that the infertile ones that are talking about when this problem was meant to be solved, but perhaps this is the only objection to good proposals and good solutions, have only one objection to being brought late, or only that objection can be put, but certainly it should be looked forward to finally solving this issue. These people don't have much. Now, we've heard from Madam Minister that there are thousands of families, but they were really persistent and humble and self-secure in these solutions, and I think they'll bring one great joy to those families, and here we are honored to be able to serve that very thing. Perhaps immediately one remark if, because I do not see other remarks in terms of how some better solutions could have been reached, but here in Article 13 which speaks about the obligation of the State's Attorney's office, they have a lot of work, their own, why ultimately and the State's Attorney's Office serves, its fundamental function in the pursuit of crime, and even in this civil matter are quite burdened. Therefore, there are a number of laws that burden the State's Attorney's Office with giving an opinion. I think this should be turned off. In particular, you see there are some situations, they are not very rare in practice where local self-government, the local self-government unit connects with the state, and it is recommended whose ownership is mostly in the apartments, these were often situations in the formerly occupied areas of Benkovac, Obrovac, although it is irrefutable that someone is registered, that the local community is registered, but the state felt that because of some other important facts it is the owner, so it is the subject of judgment before the law. Now you see in such a particular situation, and there are such apartments, it's not rare that the state is just arguing with a local self-government unit, you might be surprised how many such cases are in front of courts over the ownership of such apartments or any other property. You see, now seek the opinion of the State Attorney General who, under official duty, represents the state in civil law matters that he will give a positive opinion on the conclusion of such a contract with such a person here, the head of the residential building, or former supervisors of the building and the unit of local self-government if they are officially in charge of the proceedings. So they often find themselves in such situations, and sometimes they lead an object, or process, where they often succumb to these disputes, but you see, they create great difficulties for people. So there's not gonna be a very small number of crazy people who are going to be this... It is this provision, and on the other hand, the State's Attorney's Office has on several occasions, and even in this annual report that posterises the Croatian Parliament, it has highlighted the need to amend the law where this has already been resolved and imposed on them such an obligation to deprive them of that obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, here is an appeal if the Government would like to respond by its amendment to the provision of Article 13 that and for various reasons, so first and foremost because of the request of the State's attorney to deprive him of this matter needless, and on the other hand, because they are also overcrowded with their original task and on the other hand, I repeat what this will often put them in a conflict situation, and the law says they must give their opinions, and then they are not objective. And the provision of Article 15, paragraph 2, seems to me to violate the unity of registration and acquisition of property on property where the Law on Property and other real rights is perfectly clear, which says that ownership, in many countries, is already different and resolved, but here we remain on that old principle that property is acquired only by enrolment. We would now, with this provision, Article 15, as the Proposer here proposes it, in paragraph 2., we would come to a disunity. This would also cause different difficulties in court practice because this is the first provision that says something different than how property is acquired. The law on ownership and other real rights is a fundamental law in this regard, and thus there could be discrepancies and different interpretations in practice, and all the while at the expense of legal certainty. So perhaps here is a suggestion how this can be solved, only that if the property is not entered into the land books of the property, it is obtained by not laying down the contract, but by not having the right to own the property, but by the right to enter the property into the apartment, it is obtained by laying the contract in the land-book service, so to the land-book department, not the service. And more notice, so a number of MPs were speaking on behalf of their clubs on this particular trail to round up this story and you ministers were just showing up on that I think with one joint effort to get rid of this story of the tenants. The truth is, the householder's association has very different starting points and interests about the owner's association, but as the obligation of the local self-government unit to do so will cost the state much more than a single unit of local self-government, but I think it's a relevant data and the former government has collected that data. They're not that exact in that sense because it's also true what you're saying. The tenants themselves say there are about 3,000 of them somewhere while the owners claim to have them from 7 to 13. However, the truth is that many tenants cannot resolve their question even though these former owners do not have their rights at all or are out there somewhere or have lost that right that the law gave them. So, our mutual obligation remains here, not to argue, because that's also one of the issues that should be resolved long ago, but if we think about these people in a difficult situation, and we're going to say to each other, and it's the hardest thing for those who still have one uncertainty. They are not rare situations and this warns us and the report of our occupier, especially where older people simply throw themselves away with different kinds of pressures from the verbal ones and they are not rare that there is a common effort I think that people, our citizens, would be able to do so in terms of just maybe the best proposals of the law affirm politics as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56217	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. Then Mr. Leco, too. Then Mr. Marco Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56218	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister! I must point out the recognition to the government and to our ministry and to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction that they have shown for the truth the feeling of these thousands of residents living in either the master's apartments or the rooms they have re-purposed for the apartment and here they are to this day. I fully agree with Mrs. Anticevic that it doesn't matter today who over the past forty, fifty years or over the past 15 years has led to this situation. The fact is that this situation exists, that these people are in such difficult and complex circumstances, that they are exposed to lawsuits and prosecutions and that here's the government has offered a quality solution one law which I will absolutely support with the desire for the truth that once and for all centuries, we will solve the legal status of these people and whoever has the right to buy it and whoever doesn't, who has used such opportunities discussed by fellow Pero, will certainly not exercise any rights or buy it for the following reasons. Here, just to support the law, I would like to comment a little on the provisions that have been incorporated into this law because, for example, in the provisions, it says literally: "The legal position of these people is being resolved, by the authorities or by the people who use supervisory apartments in a way that allows them to buy out if they have a legally valid basis for carrying out that ransom." So it can't be bought out by anyone who wants to, but by the way, someone who's just and legitimately entered that apartment. Whoever moved into that apartment by force never has the right to ransom. And besides, two good measures have been put in place. And the first measure is that these people don't own any apartment or house in the place where they live and they also didn't take advantage of the right to buy the apartment in POS. So here's to those two categories of people who entered illegally or those who already took advantage of the incentives of this country have no chance of buying an apartment. I think it's also a six-month deadline and it's far longer than the one that was proposed in the first reading, that this is now an appropriate six-month period, so whoever submits the request is going to settle their question. If the application means that there is no interest and he will remain in one status, he will remain because his contract will be terminated, he will no longer be protected by the tenant but will be in the situation in which he is. The promoter of the law on truth has offered good solutions to the sale price that is determined on the basis of the etalan price which is now used to determine the price through the POS programme. In addition, all investments are recognised to people who have invested in this apartment over the past few years. So it will still be a solid price, acceptable to our citizens that they can buy it, by the way, as much as that payment for 15 years is possible, of course, in small-interest wars. I would not agree with the opinion that the State's Attorney's office is not giving its consent to these contracts. Well, the State's Attorney's Department gave 340,000 contracts that bought out apartments that were owned by social property, so let's give now even these thousands because the sanctions are rightly provided for by this law. If it is indeed determined that anything has been done with that price, or that the price is lower than the provisions of this law, that contract is void. There's no one else in our country who can do this, and that's the procedure that's going to get started. It's the State's Attorney's office. It's not a big deal, and even if it wasn't for the law, I would go with the amendment and suggest that the State's Attorney's Office is not doing something else, but to protect these people so they can get the fair price they need under this law. It may be only two, three words because in the same position a solution is offered for persons who have re-scheduled common spaces to the apartment and who do not meet the conditions set out in Article 372. Therefore, under the same conditions, the ownership law allows them to buy apartments, but here are the criteria. If I have an apartment in Zagreb, I can't do it. If I have property, I can't do it. If I'm some kind of lawyer, so these lawyers aren't some kind of poor guy that they don't have some kind of property and certain city services don't know who it's about. Therefore, there are enough criteria to install here to protect these people, to recognise them with the right to invest. The only difference is between one category and the other, which is the municipality's capital, and only if there is a co-ownership of the municipality and of the private or citizens who have acquired the former, former property on the flat, then the municipality has them, has to recover those funds from its pooled assets, and here the funds belong to whoever it is. Common spaces are building spaces. They're still points in the rent. After all, they are also established at the price, at the price of the apartment, and I think it is a good solution to protect these people on whom the law decides in this proposed way. More provisions have been built in here that if citizens are unable to buy these premises or apartments, they remain as protected tenants, they pay the protected rent. No one can move them out. And I would like to conclude that the legislator has also proposed a solution for ongoing court proceedings, and I, I am informed that there are still a few dozen of these court proceedings that are being led to the eviction of these people. That further proceedings and resolution in court will continue in accordance with the provisions of this Act. And Mr. Vice President, I'd like to end up with a very high-quality law. Here's the one we've been waiting for for for a long time. Now we've got him. I hope that this will come and Madam Minister has also announced other laws that address the issues of some other categories of citizens and that we will then have the opportunity to present it again probably through two readings, that we will have the opportunity to present our proposals and opinions for a fair solution to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56219	Thank you very much. It is up to the representative, Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56220	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, indeed, from all these previous statements, we see that there is one great agreement on this law, that this is a good law and, in my opinion, it is also a good law. The law really solves problems that are evident and I think it would be too much to blame each other for whether it was supposed to be done in 1990, whether it was the result of household law and the concept of social property that we actually had before 1990, which was also legal and was based on the current laws. I think this is the law we're really going to solve these two categories of people. Those who actually use superior apartments and those who, who have redecorated and re-purposed those common rooms like storage, laundry and the like. This is the subject of this Law, and as you yourself have said, 1000 families will, in this way, solve it, of course, those who don't actually have any other apartment or other living space because if it were true, it wouldn't be correct if they had the right to this kind of apartment. I am particularly pleased that you have really seriously discussed all those remarks and suggestions that we have had on boards, and therefore here I see that there is also the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Because you've really made a right difference between those co-owners and those detailed owners because these detailed owners, we need to know that they bought an apartment in a certain building at the economic price that was at the time. And that is precisely why the Committee on the Constitution's observation was that they would actually be paid a market fee in this story. Indeed, the Law contains all the essential ingredients that he should have. There are very precise deadlines, very precise how the price is formed, it is very precise in fact and how it is given consent and implementation of these contracts themselves. So here I am, and I support this Law, and this is not the first proposal that comes from your Ministry, and in fact you have taught us in some way that good bill proposals come from your ministry and this is one of those and therefore here is full support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56221	Thank you very much. It's Agent Anna Lovrin's turn. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56222	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will support this law because it solves more than 1,000 Croatian families that have not been solved so far. At the same time, the apartment provides a man with dignity and humiliation. A peaceful and secure life, or uncertainty and unrest. A man who has an apartment or a home has dignity can plan the present and the future. A man without a home is nothing. He can't plan his life. He can't plan a family. He can't plan his future with the word no plans. That is why I am very happy to get rid of these 1,000 superior families in these apartments, or homes, in this way. I won't speak for long, I hope another two problems will be solved that burden Croatian society, which are: the owners of apartments and tenants in those apartments or what we call protected tenants today. These protected tenants in those apartments are 30, 40, 50, 60, some even 70 years old. Whatever they're looking at with human beings, whether they're moral, so if you want to be on the legal side, that's their home. They don't have another home. These people were born in these homes, they grew up in these homes, lived, rejoiced and grieved. I hope that this can be resolved and I am glad that the Minister of the Republic of Croatia has just said that this is just a prelude to solving and that one big Croatian problem, and we are also under our Constitution, which is why I am a very happy country which is also a social state. The kind of people who have these problems in Croatia we have, here we heard a little before and from Madam Minister by some estimates 3, by some estimates 7, and by some estimates 13 thousand. For me, it was equally a tragedy for three or 30,000 or 300 thousand of these people to be solved. How should these people be resolved, and how? It's very simple and I'm sure it shouldn't have come to this, but my God, it's there. We make as a society, as a state, as a whole, that these people have a peaceful and peaceful life as we all have our own homes. All homeowners, i.e. apartments in those houses should be compensated at market price. Not that it happened the way it happened at the time of communism, even after where the rules of injustice were made, because those owners of the apartments, as well as protected tenants of both were damaged both of them and others were made a great injustice. Therefore, the owners are compensated at market price and allow protected tenants to buy these apartments as all those people who have had tenancy rights and as they have so far bought. Because these people, let's face it, may be the greatest victims of our society. Why? They felt they had settled their household issue with that tenant's right. Neither could they receive loans nor could they receive other apartments. Suddenly when we brought down this communist and when we introduced ourselves into our Constitution and private property owners, which is natural, are reporting for their property, and now neither the guilty nor the due product of all this are these innocent people who have found themselves in those apartments and who, now and unfortunately, are already being kicked out, and who now wants to get kicked out of those apartments. In order for this to happen, I suggest this model that, once again, at market prices, all the owners of the apartments pay off, and the people inside to enable them to buy their home like all those who have bought out tenant rights in the past 15 years in the Republic of Croatia. Here, I'll be a little pathetic. There's a very nice lady up here at the gallery, Mrs. Flower. I want her and all the Flowers in Croatia to solve their problem and to live peacefully and peacefully in their home. And all I can wish them were that I wanted reality with all their dreams. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56223	Thank you very much. The team has completed an individual debate. On behalf of the SDP club, 5 minutes, MP and vice president Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56224	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is good that this situation with superior dwellings is finally legally resolved and it opens up the space to be equally legally and uniformly resolved for all supervisors, or today’s protected tenants. The fact is that so far, in practice, local self-government units have acquired the right and bought apartments without special compensation of co-owners over common areas, or units of local self-government, as it was also the fact that in certain units of local self-government, taking into account the applicable regulations, such a possibility could not be achieved. This bill definitely resolves this issue., opens up the possibility for housing managers that as protected tenants, tenants can buy apartments and are practically equated with tenant rights holders, although they should have, according to the former system, achieved only after they have ceased to be in the position of supervisors and were subsequently provided with other suitable housing. This is a good solution because it ensures righteousness. At the same time, it provides compensation for co-owners on common areas of the building that they would have to, and now there is a serious problem. Namely, compensation should be paid by units of local self-government, i.e. the City of Zagreb. The question is, what will happen to those units of local self-government that won't be able to pay for it and how will we clear that up? I personally think that here we should have put the state's solidarity responsibility that it will take over the payment of that part in those segments where we couldn't solve that unit of local self-government, would not have the appropriate funds. However, this is once again a shift in the resolution of the overall problem related to household rights, or, if I may say so, related to the problem of the current supervisory, tenant, protected tenants who are located in apartments that have become the property of a local self-government unit or state, depending on the legal regime of that ownership, on the one hand. And on the other hand, who were once entitled to housing at the same time. There are two other categories of holders of this household law that remain unresolved and which should be resolved on the principle of justice that is present in this bill as well. It's about holders, former tenants of housing rights in apartments that were confiscated and those apartments where the confiscation wasn't carried out, so they basically stayed on formal property. In such a situation, again about 6 and a half to 78 thousand holders of such tenants should definitely be able to afford the purchase of an apartment by former tenants, while at the same time enabling former owners or their successors of course to make full market compensation for market value. Of course, this does not exclude the possibility that the law should open the possibility that potentially tenants or owners agree that the other relevant apartment should appear as the subject of the lease. We will support this bill, but we appeal to the ministry, in accordance with the conclusions that the representatives' clubs have actually committed to the government another two thousand seems to me for the third year to prepare a whole law for the ministry to come and with the proposal for a solution for these two years of the holder of the household law, i.e. the owner who can also find it difficult to come to... that there are protected tenants in them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56225	Thank you very much. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56226	Final proposal of the Law on the sale of apartments intended for the head of the residential building. We have a plate of amendments. Minister Marina Matulovic-Dropulic will be manifested on the amendments. Amendment number one of the HSS Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56227	It is not accepted, for reasons, because the proposed amendment provides for the provisions of this Act, and thus the purpose and purpose for which we have proposed the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56228	On behalf of the promoter of the amendment, honourable representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56229	Thank you, Mr. President. Ma'am, it's not the law, it's just being specific, and it's being led to his intrusive. I explained it so nicely in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56230	And we explained it nicely yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56231	Madam Minister, take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56232	And since we discussed and talked this way at first reading, I was convinced that you would accept because, as we know, it is not possible to sell someone else's property, and that is why we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56233	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? For Amendment 14, abstention 13.64 v. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment of MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56234	In part, it is accepted in a way that Article 2(2) adds a new paragraph 2 which reads: "HRVI Member of the family of the deceased, captive or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War shall have the right to purchase a superior apartment if they have moved into that apartment until the entry into force of this Act, regardless of whether he has performed superior tasks. In this case, these persons do not have the right to provide housing under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families." Article 2
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56235	Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56236	It's consensual. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56237	In the amended amendment, the amendments to the amendments to the two MPs of Pera Kovacevic were accepted. Amendment of the three Clubs of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56238	It shall not be accepted for the same reason as Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56239	Proposed representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56240	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, with all due respect, there can still be no reason as in Amendment 1. because this refers to the consent of local communities and in the debate we heard literally in the replica of Mr. and colleague Shirca... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56241	My colleagues, please, just a minute, a moment. Gentlemen, MPs, not MPs, but MPs, don't interfere with the debate. I'm not gonna keep reading Hemmingway "Whom the Bell Rings" but you're gonna read it to some of you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56242	When it was literally said and confirmed exactly what we said in the debate that local communities under the law and never had the right to give consent then it was said that the law never regulated it, that it was promised to be regulated by a rule that was never passed. And because of this, some practice has been established to seek the consent of local communities, however, such agreement that has entered into practice without a legal basis is illegal. And because of that resistance, the possibility of abuse of meaning... This law and we're asking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56243	Please, there's a vote to be made. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 22 for, 9 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56244	It is not accepted because the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers has not established the right of the counsel to provide housing. Only those referred to in Article 36 of that Law have the right to care for housing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56245	Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56246	I give up because of the fact that this most important amendment has been accepted in Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56247	Thank you very much. Amendment 4 withdrawn. Amendment 5. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56248	Well, unfortunately, it is not accepted again because the proposed amendment really defines the provisions of this law as I have said and thus the purpose and purpose of the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56249	Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56250	We can explain again as we have so far explained, but it's obvious that we can't come up with a concept in any way. We regret that we will not be able to support this law that will certainly be abolished in the Constitutional Court, and therefore we will be abstentioned in the vote. And as for our other amendments, other than Amendment 13, we withdraw and if you have not accepted Amendment 13. we will ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56251	If I understand correctly, we'll vote on Amendment 5 first. ... Amendments 5, 6, 8 and 10, 13 are withdrawn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then we have an amendment to the 7th Representative, Zeljko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56252	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56253	It becomes an integral part of the law. 9th Representative of the Government of Jekovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56254	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56255	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11th representative of Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56256	It is not accepted because it is estimated that the discount cannot be greater than 20% especially because depreciation is also rejected from the value of the funds invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56257	Proposer for MP Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56258	I'm asking for a vote because of the fact that it was more favourable for those who had a tenant right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56259	Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 15 for, 4 abstentions, 76 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12th also representative Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56260	It is not accepted for a reason because it is related to Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56261	Representative Kovacevic. The amendment is withdrawing. Thank you very much. 13th Amendment to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56262	It's unacceptable. With regard to supervisory apartments, entries in land books could not have been made except for SIZs or the city or municipality. A paragraph 3 provides for a simpler and easier entry to future owners so as not to violate the principles of land and book rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56263	Representative for the Proposer Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56264	Madam Minister, it's not like that. The sad owners are registered as co-owners in the apartment parts and item 3 is a complete denial of our land-booking rights. I expected from the ministry and especially from you which I highly appreciate as a minister that at least our ministries will abide by existing laws. Unfortunately, it seems to me that this is a precedent, that even the ministries don't accept existing laws. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56265	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 23 for, 2 abstentions, 67 against. So he didn't get the necessary majority of the amendments. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 89 votes for, 9 abstentions and 2 against the passed Law on the sale of apartments intended for the head of the residential building, as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56312	and move to - Final proposal of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, second reading of P.Z. No. 314. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the sessions. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. State Secretary for the Sea, Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56313	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The proposal of the Law on the Transport of Linely and Uncommon Coastal Maritime Transport intends to make the implementation of the Law more meaningful, better line and occasional coastal transport in the Republic of Croatia. What I would like to point out in the introduction is that the first announcement of the proposal and the adoption of this law was on December 6... of the year, so a year and two months ago when we announced as a ministry, as the government of the basic principles that will be the guide in the making of the law itself. Until the first reading that was held in July of last year, a very broad debate was held on the subject of this law, and through the debate we included all professional associations, sailors, unions, islanders, economic chambers, shipowners, so that through a very wide discussion we practically developed a law that was then supported in this House's first reading almost 100% by the majority because of the 99th, out of the 100 votes practically 91 MPs supported this bill, 7 were abstentioned and 2 against. From the very debate that clearly gave us the fact that this approach to resolving the linear and occasional coastal maritime traffic was correct, so we set out and made clear the final bill, but through this debate that was here in this High House in July, there were three issues that were to be addressed until the second reading. The first question referred to the right of the islander, i.e. the concern expressed, in order to reduce somewhat the rights achieved by this law in line and occasional coastal transport. The second question arising from the debate during the first reading was the demand for the government to declare until the second reading and the possible privatisation, i.e. whether or not the government's position would take place in the privatisation of the national shipowner "Jadrolinia" and we made it clear by this law that by the time the law was implemented, the deadline for implementation is five years, there is no speech, there will be no access to the privatisation of "Jadrolinia". And the third question that was also raised in the debate was the question that since the government was in the first text of the law an alternative was whether the tasks of monitoring all contracts arising from a single line competition, supervision would be carried out by a resolution ministry or by a special agency that should be established by law, so that until the second reading, the proposer and on this issue, therefore the establishment or non-basement of the agency would be apparent. We've just had three questions in this law and answered it, but I'll talk about it later. One of the questions that should certainly be asked, why the law at all needed a very important thing, which is why this law goes into procedure in the first place, and which is why the law solves the issue of linear and occasional coastal shipping. The first reason that was practical and prerequisites d is the fact that so far the matter, that this activity is currently being solved by three laws and this law existing, namely the applicable law on liner and coastal maritime transport, on the other hand, is the Law on Islands based on which a tender for 7 of 14 fast-board lines has already been opened in 1999 and also on the third side of the Jadrolinia Act which defined the position of the national shipowner in implementing clearly its basic task of connecting the island with the mainland. These three laws, each in its own domain, dealt with segmentally practically this activity and were in many ways inconsistencies. However, under these laws, a tender for each individual line should have already been implemented without new law, and this market approach should be introduced in the resolution of line maritime transport. So due to the indeterminateness of these three laws, because of their inconsistency on the one hand, and also because of the expiry of contracts that allowed individual shipowners in the Republic of Croatia to carry out state lines, that is to say, to connect the islands with the mainland. As these contracts thus expired, a new approach was to be approached, a new tender for the establishment of a clear shipowner, who will now clearly solve and carry out quality maritime transport according to certain tenders. When, therefore, there was a need for these laws that were not harmonised and unsettled and because of contracts for certain shipowners that had expired to come up with a unique text of the law that would bring together all those provisions in the existing laws, our thinking in the Government was, then, to definitely determine how to carry out coastal and occasional shipping. So we came to solve this task in a way that we wanted to make the island's quality and transport connection with land and island, primarily taking care of the interests of islanders, the interest of development, the economy on islands, because we hold that, in addition to the Law on Islands, which is the law of lex specialis for the island and islanders, the island economy is held that the law, which is here today in the Parliament, is therefore no less important, I would say even more important than the Island Act itself, because it is practically dependent on life on islands and development and sustainable development of Croatian islands. Another thing we also took care of is that through its implementation of this law further contributes to better quality maritime transport and the safety of passengers especially during the tourist season. In fact, there are over 10 million tourists in the Republic of Croatia per year, of which 2 million tourists live on Croatian islands, which means that for the very implementation of the tourist season it is very important and important segment of maritime transport, so of the 10 million passengers there are in all this maritime traffic, 4 million tourists are using shipowners' services, which carry out direct and occasional coastal transport. The third item that we led in the preparation of the proposal for this law was that, therefore, taking care of both islanders and tourists and therefore all users of the services in the maritime transport of protection in the first order of Croatian shipowners, so Croatian boaters and Croatian sailors who clearly make crews on Croatian boaters. It was also our goal to make it more quality, I would say more transparent control of budget spending in a way that, through the establishment of the agency, a practical body, a regulatory body that will day-to-day take care of each line on the execution of each line that a single shipowner will receive through a competition that will be called if the law is adopted in such a text. And also very important, and when I talk about monitoring and transparent use of budgets, then I have to say that 320 million kuna is provided in this 2006 budget position for this activity to subsidise. And another very important thing, therefore, is that through this Law it is legally possible to encourage and build ships of Croatian shipowners in Croatian shipyards. Therefore, the State budget also encourages the construction of new ships to carry out line and coastal maritime transport. So when these items were set up then it was clear that the Law had passed a series of newspapers that were not in the previous laws, so those 3 laws that I had mentioned. And the first basic newspaper is the introduction of a market approach, i.e. that the public tender selects the most favourable shipowner to carry out, therefore, liner maritime transport. In order for the shipowner to even report to the tender and to be able to carry out liner shipping, therefore, the Croatian shipping company must be in accordance with the maritime code. Which means he must meet all those conditions prescribed by the Maritime Code. That it must meet all international conventions affecting the safety of navigation, passenger safety, cargo safety, crew safety. Therefore, it cannot be done by someone who is really not a shipowner in accordance with the Maritime Code, that the number is in Croatian ownership. So that the ship was imported into the Republic of Croatia, that it was decorated and that VAT was paid on it. The ship must also fly the Croatian flag, which means that it must be entered into the Croatian Register of Ships and clearly taking care of the interest of Croatian sailors, the Law clearly states that the members of the crew are Croatian citizens, or, in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, can also be members of the crew of the Member States of the European Union. When I talk about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, then it is very important here to point out that according to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Croatia is not at this time due to the entry into the European Union as a means of transporting passengers and goods between Croatian ports and foreign shipowners, so it is them and the shipowners coming from the Member States of the European Union. We expect that through negotiations on accession to the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, we will continue to protect the position of Croatian shipowners for several years, as was the case with, say, Spain, with Greece, Portugal, France, Italy, which also kept their market closed for several years. Greece, for example, for 11 years. But the fact that this deadline will not be infinite, that, over several years, Croatia will be obliged to open up, therefore, cabotage and the possibility of carrying out liner maritime transport and other shipowners, not only shipowners who are established and who are Croatian shipowners. Therefore, until that moment which can be matched with 2010, 11, 12 years ago, our desire was to use competition in the home game through competition based on the settings of this Act to strengthen all Croatian shipmen, practically prepare them to compete in the domestic market, in the Republic of Croatia for then a clearly equal battle with Croatian, with other shipowners who would possibly be interested in carrying out liner maritime traffic in the Republic of Croatia. In order to also protect the interest of existing shipmen currently operating in line with maritime transport and who have already purchased the necessary ships, and those basic and replacement ships, it is clear in the Law that the shipowner who appears to be required to have a replacement ship next to the basic ship, which must be clearly provided in accordance with the decision to open tenders for each individual line. So clearly, then, this depends on the frequency, or frequency of individual lines per day, or per week. It is also an important news story, I have mentioned in part and before, is the establishment of the Agency as a regulatory body. In fact, there have been a lot of different considerations about whether the agency or the agency should be needed. I think that all those who are well aware of liner maritime traffic in the Republic of Croatia, and certainly islanders or those who are consumers of this way of transport of maritime transport, know that it is necessary to monitor daily the work and navigation of Croatian shipmen participating in this maritime transport. That it is necessary to verify whether, indeed, those who, in the manner of each line, have established the order of navigation, the speed of navigation, the quality of service, the age of the ship, the comfort of the ship, are indeed in that sense fulfilling all those conditions set for each line. We know the islanders because I am an islander myself, that this is often not the case and therefore it is necessary to establish a single regulatory body which, for the purposes of end-users, is therefore islanders, tourists and all those involved, and certainly for the purposes of taxpayers who, through the budget, have no means to operate the national, this traffic, therefore maritime transport, to monitor the day-to-day execution of each individual line and, therefore, through the work of the Agency, has no means of tightening up, I would say, that obligation arising from the contract that will arises from competitions for each individual line. It is also defined by the Law, which I said in the introduction, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no intention or wish to privatise the existing shipowner, the national shipowner of "Jadrolinia". This is because we hold that it is good for the Republic of Croatia to have its own shipowner, a national shipowner who can cover certain lines at certain times, jump on certain lines. And since line maritime transport is a transport of public interest and a public interest activity for the Republic of Croatia, there is a need for a national shipowner to respond at any time to the emerging needs of either the islands or the duration of the tourist season. It is also to protect the position of existing shipowners through the introduction of an institute that, in general, international traffic between the neighbouring coasts of Italy and Croatia, a single shipowner who intends to carry out international traffic must do so at least 4 months a year, which has not been the case so far. So there was practically one bad competition for a domestic boater who keeps the traffic between the two Adriatic coasts for a year, that someone, a single boater, jumps in the month, two days in the course of the tourist season, and practically then leaves the line and practically works on unfair competition with existing boaters who spend the whole year running that international traffic. This Law also clearly defines what occasional transport is, which is a taxi transport, which is a transfer in maritime transport. So no abuse would occur if practically through one of the types of occasional transport were practically carried out by line maritime transport. Here, for all of these reasons that I have stated practically came from this text of the Law with the aim of primarily making maritime transport better, making it easier, simpler and cheaper life on Croatian islands, and I must practically say that this Law is primarily directed towards islanders, i.e. those end-users of services in line and coastal maritime transport. Here, I think the introduction is enough, and then later I'll be happy to get back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56314	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56315	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, I've listened very carefully, but nothing Mr. Secretary of State has said is correct, and I'm going to correct an incorrect one. Nothing, nothing is true, exactly the opposite. Mr. Secretary of State says this legal proposal is going to... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56316	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56317	Linean maritime traffic, that the law is in the interest of island, the development of tourism, is all incorrect. This is the legal proposal, if, by any chance, it was voted upon in this high House, there will be a deterioration in the quality of transport, and it is simply a slow sinking and the very "Jadrolinia" itself, which is very quality, as our national shipowner does its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56318	Second correction, honourable representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's the guest secretary of state, Mr. Bacic, incorrectly said that the government does not want the privatisation of Jadrolinia. This is completely incorrect, because by giving, by concessioning the lines on which Jadrolini is now carrying out the transport will actually have nothing more to privatise because Jadrolini will become a worthless company.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56320	Thank you. Committees on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections, Local and Regional Self-Government, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56321	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Parliament at the 40th session held on 2 February discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Transport in line and occasional coastal transport submitted by the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 3 January 2006. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this act as an interested working body. The Committee held a written opinion by an external member of the Committee on the subject act with a proposal for the Committee to establish amendments to the Committee on the basis of that opinion. Following the opening presentation of the proposal, the majority of the Committee members supported the adoption of this Act, assessing that the proposed solutions would ensure a better integration of land and island as well as the island to each other and increase the safety of navigation. In the opinion of part of the Committee of Decisions proposed by the Final Proposal of this Act will negatively affect the business of the state shipowner, i.e. "Jadrolinia". This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for this Act should be complemented in a way that will provide State budgets to encourage the construction of ships exclusively in domestic shipyards. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal of this Act to which the concession for public transport is granted. The Committee did not accept the proposal of an external member of the Committee to establish amendments on the basis of a written opinion or proposal. In particular, the comments and proposals submitted by an external member of the Committee in writing refer to Article 63 and propose to supplement the said article in a way to establish that the Coastal Liner Transport Agency will maintain, on the date of entry into force of this Act, state ferry and classical shipping lines award concessions for those lines on the basis of their written request, a primary concession at the time of 10 years. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The Law on the "Jadrolinia" River "The People's News" No. 11/96 deletes. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by a majority vote, 5 votes for and 2 votes against the Croatian Parliament to propose the adoption of the Transport Act by line and occasional coastal transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56322	Thank you. The Tourism Committee. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56323	Dear Mr. President, esteemed secretary of state, distinguished gentlemen of the MPs, representatives of the Jadrolinia Union. I suppose, first of all, I want to say that the sailors who are related to Jadrolinia have the right to be concerned, first of all with the government's intentions, and here I mean the intention of privatising Jadrolinia, it is irrelevant whether this will happen in 5 or 7 years, and on the other hand, I dare say the irresponsibility of this Parliament. Why? 7.7.2005 discussed this Law in the first reading. In addition to Dorotea Pešić Bukovac, who spoke about this Law in front of the IDS club, I am clearly ordering, quoting: "Article 17, 18, 48, when these articles are read," says Mrs Dorotea Pesic Bukovac, "the aim of the bill promoter is specifically to shut down the state shipowner "Jadrolinija" and thus disrupt the current very quality and stress the secured transport". That's what I'm quoting and doing for the public and for the union. The attitudes of the others were different. Here it is now decidedly talking about an agency that would have its headquarters in Split and which would now "issue" concessions according to quotes. It may be possible to set up these concessions today in 2006, but in two, three years, it will be almost impossible for a mission when one such great interest is given by one foreign state, local community, public, Croatian islanders. The agency itself is not a problem if it guarantees strict control not only of the award of concessions, if it is clearly preferable to that domestic shipowner, but also of supervision, and of taking jobs away from those who are not able to behave. However, the question is of other species, can the work be done by the competent ministry? Of course he can. So what's the agency for? First of all, I dare say good-bye to some people who should be employed in it, more than they, let's say, Buljubasic, who has often been called in the Croatian public, but that is not a perspective policy if it pleases them five, six or eight in Split, not forgetting on the other hand that he has made it possible for Buljubašić HDZ to lead Split. At what cost, I don't know, I can guess. However, what I think is the point and why the IDS spoke in the way I quoted and 7.7.2005. Which simply gives the impression that the aim of the legislator is specifically to shut down the state shipowner "Jadrolini" and thus disrupt the current very quality and emphasize safe transport. That's why I get the impression that when this law is passed, it should be said to the people to blow and to the cold. So just because this privatization is hinted at, it's supposed to blow cold as well. Speaking of concessions, don't forget that Jadrolini is not the only boatman. He's a state shipman. She's the biggest boater, but there's one "Rapical sailing" and "Losin sailing" and "Mediteran sailing" and this Fishery cooperative "Vrgadu" etc. But also from 46 concessions if I'm not mistaken, all six or seven of them are profitable, and the truth is that in the last two years when "Jadrolinia" is due, through subsidies to them, management or not know companies, the state has paid 114 million euros or cca 750 million kuna, and only last year if I'm not mistaken for 360 million kuna, the Secretary of State said just before, if I understand it correctly, 320 million kuna. It is clear that "Jadrolinija" will, for the sake of the European Union, if we don't all end up in the Balkans first, slowly be removed from the budget as announced for, say, shipyards that would have a 10% subsidy on board by the end of 2008. 8%, 2010 would be 6%, and in 2011 it should be fully in line with some European standards. That's clearly what we are, keeping in mind and opportunities in "Olinik", "May 3rd" etc. We're very scared of the Queen, because it's supposed to be shipbuilding today for the naked survival of some 6.3 billion kunas. But to return now to the privatisation of Jadrolinia. You see, gentlemen, this argument on page 26 literally states and I will quote it, read: "One of the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the fully controlled privatisation of the state shipowner in order to further develop the market business." Then, "It is necessary to stress that the new Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, based on the right to carry out public line traffic, is a significant element in the implementation of the possible privatisation of Jadrolinia by awarding concessions through a public tender." Third "For this very reason, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development as a Resort Ministry responsible for the situation in this area ordered a study by the University of Zagreb Faculty of Economics in early April this year on the subject of "Conception and Privatisation of Jadrolinija". The fourth "The primary goal of this study was to obtain the answer of science on possible privatisation of Jadrolinija through its development and development strategy. Fifthly, "This presented the proposed model of privatisation of Jadrolinija by the study authors based on the vision of the preservation and development of a single and strong business entity, a system with an emphasis on affirmation of stakeholders as relevant participants in defining the existence of companies including in co-ownership." And the sixth "The positions resulting from the proposed study refer to the possible privatisation of Jadrolinia that would be timed in two phases etc." Gentlemen, it is right to protest if this purpose is true. I also know that 2006 is neither 92 nor 2006. In 1996, when privatisation could be carried out by hunting logic in a cloudy but the gentlemen of Jadrolin should not be privatised for five or seven or nine years, because perhaps in five, seven or nine years after that, the Republic of Croatia will be forced to buy back its former company. That's why, gentlemen, it's supposed to blow cold. We all know there's irrationality in Jadrolinia. Not on ships, but in the administration, but then it's not done by privatization, it's solved by a new administration. We also know that this government will not be the one to privatise Jadrolini, and that should be said but that possibility should not be left to the one who will come after 2007, and that is actually the point. In 1991, for example, we sold TDR, we left it a monopoly and now TDR with an extra profit of over a billion kuna per year buys state insurance company Croatia insurance for two or three annual profits. I look at every monopoly, clearly except for the one in my court. But I repeat, monopolies should not sell whether it's about Croatia's insurance, whether it's about a post office bank that's not the monopolies of this other, whether it's about Jadrolinia. You better buy a Split Bank even if it will be an impossible mission because we now see that Zagrebačka Banka artificially raises the price to 800m euros, it is not really worth more Split than 200-300m euros, hoping it will "gulp" the Post Office Bank after which it might be destroyed by such a one-off transaction and as a competition. It may be private capital on the other hand and more successful than state-owned but these state-owned companies have had all this time since 45th here and a significant social dimension, especially when it comes to job security. I'm gonna say it one more time. Monopolies don't have to sell. But how on the other hand someone will tell you to pay the pensioners back. We know, by clearly selling INA and by selling Croatian telecommunications. Okay, it's important that, let's say, pensioners come up with money, but in some ways, we sell it to a substance, we deprive ourselves in some way of economic independence, and in some ways it's all made up and nobody in this House can talk me out of it. In 1992, the chosen former authorities were to be given factories, literally given at least well undermined and at the same time by socialist directors, then by banks, and monopolies. Now INA, HT, tomorrow Croatia will be insurance, the day after tomorrow it will be Jadrolinija and it may not be five years from today. So, for the end, I don't think that the future agency as it is spoken leads to Jadrolini's fate of Croatia as one union representative from Jadrolinia once said. But something else that same Mr. Bracoduro said, and that's exactly what I'm signing. If within 5 years, the most profitable concessions of the reaction are given, it will not be clear in public that the strategy is sharp and that can be a clear end for Jadrolini. That's what I think sailors are most afraid of, that in a systematic way, the company means through the award of concessions, and tomorrow why it privatizes not to foreigners, not to foreigners as they say in the Union. Because those who cover 115 thousand people on the islands will not be interested but will buy our tycoons who in the 1990s had what they had. One social apartment and one used golf course, and today they have shipping companies with 5, 6, 10 or more ships. That's what's going to happen to Jadrolini tomorrow. That means their directors, our directors from the 1990s who are today the owners of shipping companies will buy all of Jadrolini as they are, as they are already exchanging shipping companies. It is simply a Croatian reality. Foreigners are interested in those two, three months in the season. But outside of the season without state support clearly there will be no interest in traffic between the coast and our islands. In 15 years, Croatia has divided socially, free to say it to pain, to pain. However, in 2007, a new government will come, and it may be this one, and I am afraid if this law passes, it will not put a moratorium on the privatisation of Jadrolinia because the reasoning of this legislative proposal is more than decided. And what's worse. As we will sell INA and HT to repay 50% of the debt to, say, pensioners or pensioners, so we will sell tomorrow to Croatia's electricity industry, Jadrolini to simply maintain the budget so it doesn't fall apart. I'm afraid it's fate, and the electors of some former authorities and current authorities, however, will buy both the Jadrolini and the shipyards and everything else that is simply relevant and what remains in this country. And in so fearing one such scenario, IDS is clear against the Transport Act by line and occasional coastal transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56324	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56325	So here's one inaccuracy says colleague Cain that precisely the shortcomings of this law or the bill were first spoken by our colleague, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. It's just not true. First, Mr. Mato Arlovic, the vice-president of the Parliament, spoke about the need for priority concessions and the conclusions of the Croatian Shipowners' Association "Mare nostrum" were also on the trail. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56326	Who before? Who's first? Dear Representative Krunoslav Peronja. A second correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56327	Incorrectly, counterpart Kajin said that Mr. Buljubasic had allowed power in Split and at some price. It is true that legal, democratic elections have been held in Split. That the coalition was concluded between the Croatian Democratic Community and the Veli Misti list without the gentleman mentioned at all being a councilman. It is therefore absolutely incorrect and unfounded to talk about a price and a possibility because the City of Split is well known for its democracy, legality, justice and honesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56328	Second, third correction, respected representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56329	Mr. President, my colleague Peronja fixed one, I'll do the other. Mr. Cain says that in 1992, the factory was given, the bank and the other elected people, and the government of the coalition in which his member was a minister gave the largest number of banks and the majority power of HT through a secret contract to other or foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56330	There you go. No, it's a replica. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56331	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Mr. Secretary of State and gentlemen, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Ministry of the Sea. It's about who said what first. Speaking on behalf of the HSP Club as the first in the last debate, I asked the Ministry to prepare the concept of privatisation to see what really stands behind it, what is really going to be done with Jadrolinia? Does it all make sense? When I saw this concept of privatisation, I realized that privatisation as I was starting to think was really completely unnecessary. I would remind here that an old English proverb says that parliament makes laws when it is really necessary and when it cannot be settled with existing legislation, and then only in cases where the already established practice has to be regulated. I don't really see the need to pass a new law since we already have the 1997 Lineship Transport Act, which regulates the Adriatic Law that gives it the proper status. So why enter into a new law that will not offer a cardinal new one at all. And if that's what we're going to do, then let's be good and not invent hot water again, but let's see how our neighbors have done with roughly equal requirements and needs for a line ship's transport. In fact, when we discuss this and look at the European normative, we see that there are no requirements in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for this law to be passed. This Regulation shall enter The Stabilisation and Association Agreement even says provisions on the business effort of foreign companies in Croatia will not apply to the operation of shipping. So Article 52 says that this Agreement does not prevent Croatia from applying specific rules relating to branches of a European Union company, whether for reasons of legal or technical differences. So if it happens to someone else and breaks down to give in to a foreign shipowner, I think in that case we have to rely on Articles 51 and 52 and make such a move impossible at the beginning. Of course, this law opens up a series of questions. So, first of all, does this mean all the expensive privatisation? If it takes the establishment of an agency why doesn't she oversee all the lines both state and county, but only state? Can there be state and county lines in the same direction? Does the law introduce foreign shipping to our market? And what exactly is competition in terms of this law? When we look at our neighbours, Greece is an extreme example, 10 private boaters, each with their own lines for someone to intimidate. In practice, however, it seems that from Piraeus to Paros, an island as large as Brac, and as remote as Lastovo from Split, we have 20 lines a day. And with the existing traffic system in Croatia until... We have two lines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's the consequence of full competition. On the other hand, we have Italy where there is a strong state shipowner who maintains a legally guaranteed standard of shipping, it's "Tyrenia". And the "Tyrenia" that was privatized has returned to state property. And I think it's in itself a clear enough message to be the future of Jadrolinius. "Tyrenias" appear as an aid to various private shipmen, close to 30 that appear in various seasonal or supplementary lines. In any of these examples, actually, foreigners are almost gone. In Greece, this is impossible because competition is so strong, and in Italy it is impossible for such a developed system that "Tyrenia" actually takes over those most profitable and subsidized state lines. Is it necessary to compete with Jadrolini? No doubt it is because it can only encourage anyone to increase quality and service. But what competition? Besides her, we actually have very weak other boaters. Some of them were created by privatising former municipal lines, such as "Rapical sailing" and do not intend to spread to the rest of Croatia, they are afraid they are too weak for that. The ones that came after '97. are also too weak and in fact none of them can be the real competitor of Jadrolini. If we open up really full of competition here is actually opening up a full space for the entry of foreign boaters and for the real endangerment of Jadrolinia. Also, when we talk about a concession contract, he would really have to, and it is good that it was done in this final bill of law to contain a public interest. The concession agreement must be written in the form of a public-private partnership. So it has to indicate what public interest it is, that means what quality of the ship, which speed of the ship, which frequency of departure, what quality of accommodation of passengers and vehicles, what maritious properties. But what's important in all these stories is that there are boaters for the sake of the island, not the other way around. And when we talk about introducing new lines, when we talk about competition, then we can't put ourselves in a situation where we don't see trees from the woods. The boaters are here for the island, not the other way around. Also, Mr. Minister, when we talk about inciting shipbuilding, then we need to think about domestic shipbuilding. But that's also unnecessary if it's the introduction of supplemental lines. Make it the "Jadrolini" that holds the state standard, legally guaranteed with domestic new ferrys, but if necessary, if it is seen that it is necessary for multiple lines and there are those who want to ride a second-hand ship of appropriate quality, so let them drive. Why make it impossible? And speaking of domestic and foreign ferry, be careful all catamarans were purchased in the Philippines more or less. "Ivan Zajc" is an Italian ship, "Marco Polo" Norway, "Peter Hectorović" Danish or something. So, the goal is to transport the ship. We don't write this law to encourage shipbuilding, we don't write this law to protect shipowners, we write it for shipping to our islands. In doing so again, making sure that we do not forget these fundamental economic interests. As far as the agency is concerned, I repeat, it must be in charge of all the lines. Because if we have a Telecommunications Agency that's in charge of all concessionaries, both local and regional and national, then why would the agency only oversee state lines? Why isn't he watching the others? In that sense, we have a series of amendments. In Article 6, we consider and should add, in addition to these words, the means of work of the ministry, i.e. the means to encourage the construction of ships, the words "in domestic shipyards", because we want to encourage domestic shipbuilding. Furthermore, in Article 10, we believe that the existence of a line of other importance can be established at the same time if there is a need already in the frequency of transport. That's what we're saying because, in our court, it's the state line that's the standard, and the county lines are the extra lines. If, then, the county head office estimates that there's someone who wants to drive on that line to increase capacity, so let's drive. If all of this gets to him, something small must be subsidized from the county budget to be subsidized. If he wants to drive for free, though. But why would someone make it impossible? A higher frequency of transport on state lines may be requested by the county, city or municipal headship. But let's not, in that case, burden the municipalities to pay it more. The owner deserves more lines, but the Lastovo municipality has no money theory to cover that surplus line. But you can find someone who will drive for Lasto's second-hand ferry with the same service, without subsidies or with a minimum subsidy. Why make it impossible? Also, an extremely important amendment, so our amendments actually depend on the adoption of this law. For the award of concessions, public transport on state lines is an experience in public transport in line with coastal maritime transport in the Croatian territorial sea for at least 3 years. So, if anyone here wants to show up, even a domestic shipman, with a desire to carry out public transport on state lines, he must have some kind of work experience of at least 3 years. 3 years otherwise, this law provides for minimum concessions for the county line. Let them be tested on the county line, and if it turns out to be good then let the approaches compete for the state line because otherwise we will have Italians or Greeks or Montenegrins in it and compete on the same lines and so we ask that the experience is at least three years in the Croatian sea. They don't have all the seas in the Mediterranean such a storm and such rocks and conditions of sailing. In doing so, the second part of our amendment is that the advantage of awarding concessions is to give "Jadrolini" Rijeka within the meaning of the "Jadrolinia" Act and other shipmen who already carry out line coastal traffic, then let's give priority to those who already have experience, and the rest should be tested on the supplemental lines over three years. If they're good, they can join the competition. Agency. So much bile spilled around her. We believe that it should also monitor the state and county lines, so that the county headship or county chiefships decide and request the agency to grant concessions and to withdraw concessions at their request, in particular, if it comes to additional lines at approximately the same sea distances and at the same risk of sea navigation, on the same conditions even. So, according to us, the agency's headquarters should be in Zagreb to rely on this eternal dispute of the northern and southern Adriatic, but with the agency's proposal that it should have its regional administrative departments in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split and Dubrovnik. We expect a sharp increase in transport on the Adriatic. At least I hope more people live on the islands, I hope more boaters will come forward, why not provide a proper legal machinery for all of this together. But then it is better that all county lines oversee such administrative regional departments of the agency than that of county heads who are often doing so or are not teamed up, or we will have a situation where our standard of teamwork and capacity for such jobs depends on the county to the county, so that both ship transport and its standard and safety depends on the county to the county. One more thing. I believe that Articles 2, 3 and 4 should be deleted in Article 46 because they actually allow foreign cabotage in the Croatian territorial sea to be allowed on a small door. The current formulation of Article 46 actually gives the next development of events. The home shipman finds that the concession is invaluable under the current conditions and decides not to request an extension of the concession. Then, without competition under the current draft law, a concession is given by direct contract or worse, a foreign shipowner is introduced again without competition. So Article 33 offers a far acceptable procedure, a contest. As soon as the concessionaire doesn't want to extend the concession, the contest. So with these few amendments if they are accepted, we can think about supporting this law, if not, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56332	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56333	Here, Mr. President, Secretary of State, Assistant. One incorrect allegation by a fellow gentleman is that this law is not necessary until the debate shows that this law is necessary yes and that this law will be raised to the highest standard of transport in the first order, and then everything else in the Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56334	For the HNS club, respected representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56335	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State and Assistant Minister. You know if we were going to count numbers, then we shouldn't be talking about this law. There are 117 thousand people living on the islands, so 2.5% of the population of Croatia. Had that 2.5 or not, dear God all the same, Peronja moved to Split anyway. So that's not very important, but you have other numbers and you say it like this. In 2004, 9 million and 765 thousand passengers and 2 million and 572 vehicles and a little more. So in 2005, over 10 million, because growth is between 15% and 20% annually. Annual traffic growth is between 15% and 20% in the last three years, and obviously we need to talk about this, this is a very important matter and we need to talk about it, and we need to talk about it on the basis of a specific strategy. Unfortunately, my friends are sitting here, so I'm gonna have to speak against what they sent us. In order to get to the strategy, you have to have a vision beyond the vision of the scenario, behind the scenario of some kind of strategy, and behind that strategy of the law, and this has no strategy. You know why? This law mixes pears and apples, on the one hand the concession market, and, on the other hand, Article 69 reads this: The privatisation of the "Adriatics" company for the liner shipping of passengers and cargo of Rijeka can only be accessed after the award of concessions for all state lines in accordance with the provisions of this law. In fact, the state is the owner of Jadrolinia, the government, and the government is passing this law, proposing this law, and the government is in conflict of interest, in a direct conflict of interest. She can handle it in two ways. He can solve it by assigning all the Jadrolini lines and having these 10 so far who have some other lines, I would have done so, if I were the government, if I were the owner, and if I were the owner, I would have given it all to myself, so that's logical. That makes sense. So you give it all to yourself, and these others are doomed and God. Because why would that be different, so we're working interestingly. Why else would he assign it to some Buljubasic, why "Rapical navigation", why "Mediteran sailing," let's tell me one reason. You want me to say the reason? ... Registered in Rijeka, bought several ships, some in Rijeka, some elsewhere. [[You don't understand.]] They're making some money to share and waiting for the lines. You know, there's a reason. Now, so that's why this is going to happen. So we don't have strategies because we don't know what we'd do with Jadrolinia. If we knew, then we would privatize it and then pass the concession law. Or they'd do something different. They wouldn't privatize it, but then they wouldn't have a concession, but they'd have a state-owned firm to do certain jobs, to control that state-owned firm a little bit better, because you miss God, and that's always a state-owned problem. 49 islands are inhabited, 46 of which are connected. So whoever you assign it to, when he fails or won't do it, it's still a state problem. And whose will it be? It could be if we leave it to the owner of Italy, they'll take it easy. They had it twice a day. There is a much longer line Italy – Lastovo than Italy – Croatia. But they had... It's not, it's not-it's not-it's not-it's [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let go of you, where are you, what do you know about it? So there's completely unclear everything, and now this law has turned out to be a "passtroch" and a mixture of everything and everything and a dear God can't understand this. I can't understand what the government wants. That's unclear to me. But, well, I guess that's the way it can be. On the third hand of the Agency, why was the Agency invented? No, the agency is just to throw a bone between Split and Rijeka. Because look out, who needs this agency? The truth is that Calmeta has a large ministry, a huge ministry, but there are a lot of people. Now, watch out for that agency. The Agency's business here is defined, but this agency except that it has no idea how many employees, I don't know, the director and you don't know how many employees, it can be 5 and 6 and 35. There are also five members of the board of directors who actually make decisions. And then there's the selection committee. There are no members of the Agency in that commission. That's how it's formulated here. ... You could go talk to the Head, not me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And then you've got another problem, extra. You have trouble having the criteria for selecting these according to the concession competition must define, therefore, some are defined here in a very strange way, and then let's say that in point 2 of this Act, Article 13 of the latter says, "Addditional technical conditions relating to the speed, age of the ship, number of passengers, number of vehicles that can be transported, those other conditions that a shipowner for each line is required by the minister". My poor Kalmeta. And then you have more, you have more see. Then, in Article 39, under the point of "concession", it reads as follows: " more detailed terms and procedures for granting concessions and criteria for determining the price of services and the level of compensation, the way of payment, the instruments for ensuring the payment of concession fees are prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And then what's prescribed? With this law little or nothing. Now, if you didn't have a Law on Jadrolinia, you wouldn't have a Law on Line traffic and these laws that are listed here in an explanation, and well, it could be that man could say "so that we have at least what." But a law like this that doesn't know what to want or know, but we don't know. I can't figure it out, you know, I'm not too smart for you, so I can't figure it out. Because there are two different options there, too. There's a variant of how you want to leave Jadrolini as a state firm, which isn't impossible. It's got Italy, it's got Spain, and why don't you leave a state firm which, behold, the ministry gentlemen will better control, use its reserves and make it all work. That's possible. And you have another option. To share all concessions to Jadrolini per year that are unknown because the law has not established. You can give it to 5, 15, I don't know, it'll already Calmeta or Sanader decide how many years it's going to be. And now that you have safe jobs, now we're going to privatize her. And then Letica and I will report for property. So, you have a variety of options here, you have a chance to think in whatever way you want to think about this without actually knowing anything. And that's why you who understand this law vote for him, and we're not going to vote for him any dumber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56336	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56337	Here, it is true that the most time I live in Zagreb now, not in Split, and as a parliamentary representative, I regularly visit election units, and most of all, our islands. Therefore, counterpart Marasovic probably didn't mean it when he said I didn't live on islands. That's why I know the problem best.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56338	And respected representative Zdenko Antešić. The second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In her inspired presentation, her colleagues, Marasovic, stole a small inaccuracies. And he said we didn't know what to do with this law, what to do with Jadrolinia. It's just not true. It is true that the award of concessions on the lines now carried out by Jadrolini is very well known what to do after that with Jadrolinia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56340	Honorable representative, Minister? Minister Calmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56341	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The State Secretary was opening up this Law, that is, on the eve of the second reading. And I think, of all of us here in this assembly, he's still the most ferry driver on the island and back. Therefore, on the other hand, he is very interested, and also with my work and through the Ministry, etc., has proved exactly how much care he cares about islands and islanders. And in the opening speech, he really made a thorough statement as to why this Law, why, what we want with it, etc. But since there are some questions that I believe you know the answers to, here I am going to repeat them. First of all, we want to protect Croatian shipmen, this is the first thing that we have protected Croatian shipmen and as we have created conditions for Croatian shipmen working on the international market, that they have the same conditions as all and all the most suitable countries for the development of shipbuilding, and this is the proposed Law on the maritime code which then Parliament adopted by a large majority. Secondly, we are also interested in protecting Jadrolini as the largest state ship, a ship carrying a huge burden of responsibility for the transport of passengers to and from the islands, but also for the transport of tourists because we know that about 2 million tourists live on islands annually. Furthermore, what is our goal in this Law? To improve the quality of connecting the island to the mainland and vice versa and what no one has mentioned here is our goal with this Law and to increase the safety of navigation and what else is our goal of this Law? Better monitor budget spending. And you know very well that most of the lines are subsidized and precisely by the introduction of the agency we want to introduce there even more order, even more control in this business and it seems to me, my free assessment is that the introduction of these agencies is the most and bothers all those who want to hunt in the murky, not only is its seat either in Split or in Rijeka or in Zagreb, it is not important at all, but because the agency will be very careful to keep an eye on every cost of all those who get a line through the concession and will no longer be able to drive this one with one engine instead of two engines, so it will travel to a certain island instead of an hour, 45 minutes or an hour, but it will certainly be known etc., etc., save on fuel and on the top... Therefore, all we do with this bill is better connect the island with the mainland and protect Croatian shipmen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, what you want here is not only today but also between these two readings that you constantly want to impose, it's the privatisation of Jadrolinia. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in this Law it explicitly states in Article 69 that the concession of all lines, and the deadline of 5 years cannot be and cannot be privatised as "Jadrolinia", thus this Law confirms that there is not at least the next 5 years of privatisation of "Jadrolinia". What happens after that, is she going to privatize or not, by what model, how? This must be decided by my dear friends, not by the Government, but by the privatisation of Jadrolinija, the Parliament decides, therefore you or those who are sitting in these benches will decide, but the Parliament decides and should not plant it here on the Croatian public and deceive the Croatian public that there is some interest here I do not know how to privatise "Jadrolinija" etc., etc., etc. We have ordered from the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb and received one study of the possible privatisation of "Jadrolinija", but it is one process that goes parallelly clean to see what the profession means in Croatia whether or not to do anything with such an enterprise, or until yesterday's... But it has nothing to do with this, so there's no privatisation of Jadrolinia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, the question was whether the agency should control the county lines? We do not think it should be for a simple reason because the agency controls the spending of budgets, since the county lines from the state budget are not financed, there is no need for the agency to control those county lines as well. And the question of whether this law introduces foreign shipping to the market? No, I don't. This proposal clearly states that one who wants to report for concession must be a company registered in Croatia, so the Croatian firm, that the ship must be registered in Croatia, carry the Croatian flag, that the crew must be Croatian citizens, that the language be Croatian, etc., etc. Now, if someone is going to register a company in Croatia, whether this company is going to introduce a ship or even register a ship here, whether it will receive sailors from Croatian citizens or if they are not there, I don't know someone from the European Union etc., dear friends can't prevent it or believe that anyone can demand it, because we can't be on the one hand when we want it in Europe, and when Europe wants it to come to us, then you can't, because it can't, but there's so many restrictions here and so much is written that everything that happens and if it happens it has to be of great interest to the Republic of Croatia. And last question, priority concession. Already now there are 46 state lines, of these 46 state lines already 14 are driven by competition, the tender is called, concessions are given in 2001. Therefore,... In 2001, concessions were given for 14 state lines per competition, of which 7 were awarded "Jadrolini", and 7 were given to other shipmakers, hence the institute is already there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Next, 5 lines... sailing Mediterranean,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] etc., etc., they are '97. get a priority concession that expires in 5 years, therefore they must also go to the competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, of the 46 lines left, the 27 lines that we're talking about here, according to which the Institute of Public Competition, that is, the concession tender already exists, according to which we will not be able to declare all 46 lines, or put them into some kind of priority concession. But this law is so set up, so formed, and if you read the practical first "Jadrolini" can't, who's going to compete when we've only got "Jadrolini" in two last years, they've strengthened it with 4 brand-new ships and 3 very high-quality second-hand ships. Thus, in two years, the value of Jadrolinia in terms of ships has increased by about 40m euros. Well, the state won't invest so much in Jadrolini and raise competitiveness, so we're doing it all together just so no one can compete and no one can endanger Jadrolini. But if someone wants to come with a bigger boat, a better boat, a faster boat on a line, dear friends who are the ones who have the right to say and not this one. But within these concession contests where only Croatian shipmen can come forward who can compete with Jadrolini, who can endanger Jadrolini.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56342	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56343	Mr. President, Minister! Therefore, this law does not have an E mark and no one can talk about this being a conformity with the European Union. That's one thing. Another thing that's important to emphasize. The European Union does not require that this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56344	Comrade Marasovic, please stick to the rules of procedure. Correction of the factual claim. It's a polemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56345	The third thing, Article 69 does not say that the privatisation of Jadrolinia will be delayed for five years but until the time of award of concessions. The minister said within five years. That's what he said in the paper. It could draw a conclusion because he said concessions would be awarded up to five years and that they could be awarded up to three because it means that Jadrolini will be privatised within three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56346	Okay. Thank you. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56347	Minister Calmeta literally said the Parliament is deciding to privatise Jadrolinija. Mr. Minister, that's not true. This isn't true. This Parliament neither decides on a menu in the Parliament, let alone in the privatisation of HT, INA and Jadrolinija, Croatia's insurance or Liburnia. That's true. Nor did Parliament decide in 1992 on the privatisation of TDR, Lenca, Agrocora, Lure, nor will we decide on the privatisation of Jadrolinia. In five years, some new assembly of parliament may decide to privatise Jadrolinia, but today 2006, it's a tragedy. We don't decide either about the daily menu and I'm afraid we won't, or that some future meeting will also not decide on the privatisation of Jadrolinia, although God forbid it does because then that Parliament won't vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56348	Comrade Cain, I warn you. You insult the Croatian Parliament. With such metaphors, with such combinations that this body is, legislatively, a representative body that should actually be abolished, which is not worth anything, that doesn't decide anything. Leave it alone. ... There's nothing you can do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56349	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it is incorrect that Mr. Minister argued that it is not the ultimate objective of this proposal for the privatisation of Jadrolinia law. On the contrary, these are the preparations for the privatisation of Jadrolinia in that stage when the strength of Jadrolinia is weakened. Then why not immediately privatize Jadrolini as you did, and the government committed itself in secret until it broke out in public a year and a half ago, so in summer, you made a deal with the International Monetary Fund because you're already late for privatisation. You made a commitment there to privatize everything and within what deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56350	Honourable representative Zdenko Antesic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56351	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister incorrectly said that the applicant of the concession bid must be a registered company, etc., etc. Everything that goes with it. However, paragraph 3 of Article 28 literally speaks the following. When submitting a concession offer, the tenderer shall provide evidence that it will fulfil the conditions set out in points (1), (2) and (3) of this Article, which means what Mr Minister has said and those conditions must meet until a concession contract has been concluded. So when we translate it into a language that everyone understands, it doesn't have to be fulfilled. He only has to promise to fulfill this by the time the contract is concluded, and in this it is one of the major objections of this law, and it needs to be corrected until the final adoption of the law, because otherwise it will be possible, to express myself perhaps inappropriately but that every potential tycoon that thinks it can be reported will be able to meet these conditions and report legally to the competition. In that sense, I am correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56352	And the esteemed representative, Bisserka Perman, is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56353	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr. Minister said that Jadrolini has had a priority concession since 1997. This is an incorrect allegation because in order for such an award to be granted must be predetermined in the law. If I'm based on the 1997 law. The government has never made a decision to set state lines could not even have been awarded a concession, and therefore this claim is incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56354	Honored representative Zivko Nenadić Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56355	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Only a little more than a year has passed since the adoption of the Maritime Code, and here is the final proposal for a new law in the maritime area on which the Republic of Croatia will be even more recognizable as a maritime country before this home. The results of the application of the Maritime Code are already visible in Croatian maritime. Croatian shipowners use high conukture on the world maritime market and the privileges that allowed them to register extremely good business results of tanker, Atlantic and Uljanik sailing have the largest fleet in their history and build the largest ships ever registered in Croatian registers. A black charter with over a thousand and 200 foreign yachts and boats has been contained under the laws in Croatian registers. Legal and maritime experts of the European Commission who analyse our legislation have highly assessed the Maritime Code. The proposed Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport provides modern solutions for the regulation of a new area, which is the transport of passengers and vehicles in our territorial sea. After this law follows the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, which will be discussed in the Assembly during 2006, which will round up successful legislative activity in Croatian maritime affairs. The Croatian state with over 1200 islands and islets of which 49 inhabitants live, with more than 2 million tourists living in 2005, has to pay special attention to public coastal and occasional transport. When it comes to the transport of passengers in particular in maritime transport, special attention must be paid to the safety of passengers and crew. The proposed Law provides for the adoption of a specific sub-legislative act establishing the maximum age and comfort of ships in accordance with European directives. In addition, the proposal for a law found that one of the decisive factors in the award of the concession would be the age and comfort of the ship. If the law provides for a prerequisite guaranteeing safety in the selection of ships and shipowners, then it is clear that the following criteria must be a public tender for obtaining state subsidies, their transparent use as well as the supervision of the concession system itself. Although there were no objections on the first reading of the law to the decision to open a public tender for all lines, all of a sudden proposals for giving a priority concession without competition appear. Such proposals are totally unacceptable in a country of European orientation, such as Croatia. We believe that for such proposals, there is no legal basis or justification for what we can confirm with the following arguments. Jadrolini has had a priority concession for 10 years since 1996 under the old law. Other ferry operators were never in competition and the ministry's permits expired two years ago. The rapid boaters of concessions expire at the end of this year and after multiple extensions. The question arises how do you assign a concession in a situation like this? How to make contracts and grant over 300 million kuna support without competition. What are the criteria for granting a subsidy if there are no tenders? At the beginning of the presentation, I said that the safety and quality of the ships must be a prerequisite for the transport of passengers. How are we going to meet that condition if we award the primary concession without a competition that won't oblige the shipowners to buy new ships? How are we going to explain to our islands that for the next 5 or 10 years how long the primary concession would last, they must sail ships of an average age of over 25, including veterans from 60 years of age. It should be pointed out that the bill provides for an extension of the concession if the shipowner purchases a new ship during the duration of the concession. The law further provides state support for the construction of new ships. In view of the fears of how it will weaken Jadrolini and how the seamen will lose their jobs if the bill is accepted, we would also like to highlight some of the unequivocal provisions of the Bill's proposal. Ships will have to be enrolled in Croatian registers. The crew on board must have Croatian state belongings. The official language on ships must be Croatian. The ship's owner must be a Croatian company, not like in some cases where we've had real owners somewhere in countries where it's easier for me. It's in action now. The ship owner must have confirmation from the Croatian register that he is in compliance with the safety rules of the ship. The islanders were provided with all the privileges they had in accordance with current regulations. And Jadrolini will not be privatized until all the competitions are held, which means next, at least for the next five years. And then, as the minister himself says, about that after. Croatian sailors do not have to worry about their status because their status is guaranteed by law. We just want to mention that for the first time in 60 years, this government has provided funding for scholarships to future sailors. Furthermore, for the first time in international navigation, the government has properly addressed pension and health insurance issues. The maritime code and the ministerial sublaw have reduced the number of courses for passing expert exams, saving both money and time for seafarers. It is freely this way that we can tell them that the human factor is the foundation of all our laws and plans. And when it comes to Jadrolinia, it should be pointed out that only for the term of office of this government is 40 and a half million kuna for the restoration of the fleet based on what was obtained as the minister said 4 new and 3 used ships. Could the government be uninterested in the status of Jadrolinija after such investments and state guarantees. Jadrolinia will certainly be taken care of. And precisely because of Jadrolinia and other shipowners, the law provides for a transitional period of 5 years for public tendering. During this period, all shipowners must prepare for tenders and may, after a 10-year concession, prepare peacefully for even greater competition in the European Union. However, the chance should be given to other Croatian private shipmen, especially the heirs of ships, whom more than 160 ships were nationalised during the communist rule in 1946. The aforementioned Atlantic tanker, Uljannik sailing, Adriatic maritime service, Brodospas and others are private boaters, very successful and prominent on the world maritime market. We must not doubt that, after experience on the world seas, our sailor cannot successfully sail in his Adriatic Sea where his sovereignty has been unquestionable throughout history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56356	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56357	Thank you very much. Mr Nenadic mentioned that Jadrolinija has had a priority concession since 1996. In fact, my correction comes down to the same thing that I just corrected Mr. Minister because, in order for such a concession to be granted, it has to be defined in law. And based on the 1997 Law. The government has never made a decision to establish state lines. So the priority concession couldn't even be allocated. Therefore, that is not an exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56358	The second correction, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56359	He incorrectly claimed counterpart Nenadic that Croatian sailors should not be concerned about their status. They are concerned and should rightly be concerned. Don't you listen to any naval unions? These same sailors you have now glorified, who have just taught their skills and pointed out not to private shipping companies, but to national Croatian companies. You know that well. And another thing, what is worrying and what will clearly make the position of the Croatian seafarer worse is the situation... the price and despite what you want us to do, you want to show us that there will be no foreign companies but that it will be all Croatian companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a foreign company enough to have a ficus, to have a fax, and here it might bring and register foreign ships here and it's a Croatian company. So these same Croatian companies, i.e. The foreigners behind these Croatian companies have bought and already today are buying up areas by the sea, the territories we are drilling and swearing to protect them. Nowhere else, look at the trade court, the lady registers such companies. Therefore, that is what is clear, which is evident and strange to me that the Croatian government does not see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56360	Order! But give me some facts. The correction of the allegations is the correction of the factual claim, it is not a correction of the representative's assessment. ... The correction of the incorrect quote is the correction of the incorrect claim, that is to say, by colleagues of Antičević. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's a fact of inaccuracy. It's in this Rules of Procedure. If a person, if a person corrects an opinion, attitude, suggestion, and others, is not the correcting of an incorrect assumption, that is, false claims but the correction of something else that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. ... Let Miloš Sixic go, and at 17 o'clock and 16 minutes it is time for an individual debate on this agenda point. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] To report it, to discuss it, rather than what. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We could have this debate today and tonight and end it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's plenty, and since we could in one package it's all interested here. And, on behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56361	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with distinguished associates, colleagues and colleagues. There, the proposed text of the law has rightly caused a lot of public interest, especially for people and the economy on the islands and on our coast. He also challenged the right of heated debate and the expert public who has a dual opinion on the proposed law. On behalf of the SDP club, I would like to highlight a few important things, and related to the proposed text of the final draft law. Namely, the law, the proposed bill introduces full liberalisation in line maritime transport. It opens up space to competition, capital, business, and it looks good at first sight. That would certainly be good if it were one Denmark, Sweden or another country with another democratic tradition. In Croatia, however, burdened with transition processes and experience in privatisation, this approach opens up a number of questions to be answered. The first question to be answered whether the application of this law will improve the transport connections between our islands and the mainland and the islands, as well as the coastal maritime integration, and which is why the whole law is being passed. The present feature of the entire maritime transport in the Adriatic is characterized by the state shipowner "Jadrolini", which performs about 90% of all maritime passenger traffic and maintains almost all state lines. Then there's the "Rabic sailing", "Losinian vision", "Meditarian sailing", and the Fishing Association "Vrgada". And since 2000, the adoption of the Law on Islands into the system has included other private shipowners in the public tender, and with less or more success they have engaged in this activity. Evaluating the current state of maritime coastal transport in conversations with people at sea and by sea and from personal experience, I can say that it is good. And primarily thanks to the high expertise, professionalism and long tradition of our sailors. This is confirmed by the legislator, who literally states: "Thanks to the exact strength of the national shipowner...", he means "Jadrolini", "...and its organisation through a unique system has been assured at all times great flexibility to the traffic needs, as well as the exchangeability of ships in the Adriatic water areas.", finished quote. After such an assessment of the promoter, I see no reason for this liberalisation of maritime transport in the Adriatic. Some of the provisions of this bill, which I will look back on later, leave the possibility of involving various speculators in this business, and their motive is exclusively profit. Space is being opened to include old, unskilled ships with troubled crews in transport, which would significantly reduce the quality of transport to the islands. I don't want pictures of seagulls happening to us like we could see in distant Asian and other exotic countries. It is precisely thanks to the existing boaters of the Adriatic that sails safely and in quality. The second question is the fate of the national shipowner "Jadrolinia" and other shipowners such as "Rabic sailing", "Meditarian" and others who are now successfully carrying out maritime transport on the Adriatic. Is the national interest of the Croatian state to preserve the national shipowner "Jadrolini" in which the state invested a lot of money in rebuilding and modernising the fleet? Jadrolini owns 55 ships, employs a thousand 800 employees. Of which, a thousand 450 great sailors. "Rapical navigation" has four new ferrys of an average age of 10 years, employs 45 sailors and trust me personally can testify to a high level of professionality and the quality of their work. These ships were built alongside state incentives in Croatian shipyards that develop Croatian shipbuilding and monitoring activities. Therefore, this non-liberalisation of the maritime coastal market. We need to know that the value of the company is actually the value of the concession it owns for transport on a particular line, without it only worth naked ships that could be sold out in case of loss of concession, and thus destroy the company and actually have nothing to privatise afterwards. I can't believe it's in someone's interest, but we haven't healed from the sea yet by losing Yugoslavia or Croatia Line, which was one of the world's best companies. This gives us the right to be careful and therefore we propose to install in the existing draft legislation protection mechanisms in the form of amendments that will protect national shipmen and those who are doing their job well so far, domestic seamen and gradually prepare them and adapt them for the upcoming competition. And now something about the law itself. As has already been said, the existing bill fully liberalises the activities of maritime coastal line traffic. It is said to classify lines on state, county, county, county, local, and year-round and seasonal. It introduces an agency to carry out concessions for coastal line traffic on behalf of the ministry. In public, the agency tried to plant itself as a coward's egg, as a possible conflict between Rijeka and Split. We in the SDP support the establishment of the agency and is completely irrelevant from the point of view of the transport where its headquarters is located. On the island council as the advisory body of Mr. Minister, either on the headquarters of the agency. There's an idea that it would be the most correct to have the seat on one of our islands, because the agency's activity includes 90% of the island's problems anyway. This would be the best example of the declared decentralisation of state functions. I personally support it logically. The SDP shall have the essential observations on Articles 27, 28, 29 and Articles 52, 53, 54 which regulate the navigation order. In that sense, we've proposed some amendments, so we're going in a row. In Article 27, we propose that the decision to grant a concession for transport is made on the basis of a public tender carried out, etc. continue in the third paragraph, which contains a decision to open a public tender. We propose to add an item that speaks in addition to all of this, which states that it must contain the conditions that must be met by the applicant to receive the concession. It is therefore appropriate to add one paragraph to Article 27. Furthermore, Article 28 discusses who can get the right to transport, or concession on a line, and it is well defined that there must be a company and everything else that stands here, we fully agree. However, as it is likely and, as Mr. Minister said earlier, it is said incorrectly, in paragraph 3 that when tendering for concession, the applicant must provide evidence that he will meet, etc. etc. We have given the amendment that must, must present the conditions that it already fulfils, so that the company, and the rest, is therefore going to get the ship enough to present evidence until the contract is concluded. In that sense, just watch the moment, in this sense after the discussion on the Island Council, the Government has given an amendment that I hope for the loss, it is wrong, it should be corrected, because the amendment reads "that when submitting an offer to obtain a concession, the applicant can attach", so "can attach", so it says "can attach". I think that the wording in the law can be attached, not a formula that is at the level of a good legal watch, but a wording should be written "must be attached". So he has to be a company, and the ship and everything else will get it, he'll give evidence that he'll get it by the time the contract is concluded in that sense we've also given the amendment. Furthermore, in Article 29, and here it is important to me now, the SDP differs significantly from the legislator. Article 29 states that the conditions under which, who has the advantage of obtaining, which the tenderer has the advantage of obtaining a concession on a particular line are listed. We have therefore also given an amendment that we insist that existing shipowners, therefore which are now successfully carrying out maritime transport on state lines, are therefore given a priority concession which, in our opinion, would gradually adapt them to a competition that will inevitably take place in the future. We believe that these amendments, excuse me just one more moment. So at the points of the 53rd law and still where the sailing order is talked about, the amendment may not be that important, but it is important because of the tourism economy. It is said in our amendments that the shipping order should be published a little earlier, so sooner than the law provides, because the agencies that are being sold on the tourist market can be included in time, i.e. they can put navigation lines in their prospectuses. Here we believe that these amendments significantly correct the existing bill, clearly establish the criteria and criteria that must be met by a concessionaire in maritime transport, two advantages to ships that now carry out quality transport, protect domestic shippers and national shipowners "Jadrolini" and local shipyards and Croatian sailors. The timely publication of sailing schedules enables tourist agencies to perform easier at fairs because we know that most tourists are coming to our islands right now. I must stress that by preparing this debate we have consulted the most valuable people from the maritime profession, all our shipowners, the Association of Croatian shipowners' employers "Mare Nostrum", the Maritime Union, and especially the islanders. Their views are contained in the amendments we propose to the government. The fate of these amendments will depend on our support for the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56362	Thank you very much. State Secretary of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Development Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56363	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'd like to look at are a few things that I think are very important to discuss as long as they're being discussed, that some of the facts that are very important, which are partly consistent with the questions that the MPs have asked. I think it will help further debate. First of all, I would like to say that some of the amendments that have been made are on the trail of what we have been doing, by doing the Law, we have planned, and some of these amendments can be accepted in a certain way, which are in the spirit of what we have been considering. But first, I'd like to say one thing. So, and what Mr. Antesic said, I think a large part of the proposal is on the trail of what we ourselves wanted. And this is, therefore, that through a market approach to be given in a certain way priority to Croatian shipmen. Now we come to the question whether these are existing shipowners or whether they are all other Croatian shipmen who, once they meet the conditions laid down by the Maritime Code, can report to the competition. I think it's very important and that's what Mr. Minister said in the introduction. At this moment, 46 state lines exist in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. in line and occasional coastal maritime transport. Of the 46 state lines 14 have been published and are practically implemented under the Law on Islands, which was adopted in 99 years, and then the former HDZ government and the previous coalition government issued a tender for these 14 lines over 2 years, of which 7 were held by Jadrolini, 7 other private shipmen. But something we must not forget, which is very important. In 96, the Jadrolinia Act was first passed. In 1997, a valid Law on line and coastal maritime transport was adopted. Mrs. Perman is talking about no priority concession for any shipman. In Article 7 of the applicable Law on line and coastal maritime transport, it is clearly stated that the state line is maintained by a state shipowner. Those lines which at that time are not maintained by the shipowners that were found on these state lines. It is the Mediterranean sailing of Korčula, the Rape navigation, the Losinj navigation and the Vrgada Agricultural Association which maintain 5 lines. It is then said and it is a priority concession that ships, therefore, allow these 5 shipowners to carry out lines for a further 5 years on the basis of the ministry's solutions. The deadline expired in 2002, which means that the previous Government was in debt under a still valid Law that was still in force to open a tender according to the applicable Law on Line and Coastal Maritime Transport. The question can be asked, why then if there was a political will to keep the priority concession, to extend all shipowners to 5, 10, 15 years, 12 years of priority concession then it was not done, and the Law imposed it. Since 2002, therefore, certain shipowners in the Republic of Croatia have carried out line transportation even though this has practically ceased to be possible for them 4 years ago. In doing so, we must say when this proposal is spoken about, Mr. Antesic said that the priority concession is to all shipowners carrying out ferry and classic shipping lines, and on the other hand, citing how in the Republic of Croatia a company, SNA or some other Enermar or other foreign company was founded. I must say that in the same way as we express concern that in the Republic of Croatia is not established and some other company that is owned abroad would be giving priority concessions to existing shipowners because some of them are already in foreign ownership. Therefore, by saying that a company could win the contest, be the most favourable bidder, and that its owner is a foreigner in the same way I want to tell you that by giving a priority concession, we would give him a priority concession and one of the existing shipowners whose owner is already not a Croatian citizen or does not live in Croatia. So the next question can be asked. Wouldn't giving priority concessions to this government only give up to certain shipmen? And could it not, in a discriminatory manner on the market, make it possible for all Croatian companies, under the same conditions, to have available services that are subsidized from the state budget, by giving a priority concession. That's very important. That is why we believe that at present, what is the current situation in Croatian shipping and where the state shipowner has no serious competition. Because with 55 ships, it is better to open 32 lines, where almost every competition can be reached now with the highest quality ships than to open competitions in 5 or 10 years when they can, or they can report to competitions and foreign shipmen. And that was the reason why you're now entering a competition where domestic shipers want to step up through the competition institute. And that's what we said, and I want to do it again every time I go out for a pay phone, that this government said it didn't want to, there's no need and no intention of privatizing Jadrolini. The scenarios heard here in the Parliament, in what way, how to privatise Jadrolini has nothing to do with the government's position and this ministry. And we made that clear. If that were not the case, they would not have transferred from the state budget in 2005 to Jadrolinia, a national shipowner, almost twice as much as it was in 2001. This month, therefore, in February the Government would not propose a decision on the construction of two new ships precisely for the purposes of Jadrolinia, that the ship's strength be strengthened and that any line in the competition which is in the interest of the national shipowner, and at least those which are currently carrying out that invitation to tender, could occur in that contest. And secondly, we think that the priority concession should have been to cementing the existing state. And the current situation in the Republic of Croatia says that the average ship connecting the Croatian islands with the mainland is 30 years old and sailing at 11 knots. If we are ready to tell Croatian islanders that through the priority concession we will continue to give them the opportunity to sail ships 30 years old and fast 11 knots then share the priority concession. I think it's better through the competition system to allow faster ships, more comfortable ships, ships that are younger than 70 years old because there are both such ships and such ships of 70 years on this proposal could get... The concession, it seems to us, is a better and a better way to go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one more thing that's very important, one can't remember being a boatman and becoming a boatman, and that's what I want to throw away right now. In order for someone to report to the tender, there must be a company within the meaning of the terms of Article 5 of the Maritime Code, it must be able to carry out that implementing undertaking in such a way as to guarantee the safety of seamen, passengers and burdens, that it has met the conditions laid down by the international ISPS code convention, which says it must have a number of captains, engineers that meet the clear and precise conditions set by the Convention adopted by the International Maritime Organisation. Therefore, no one can report to the competition after finding out that the competition has been opened for a single line, he must be a company in the fullest sense of the word. In this regard, I agree that we can think of those existing shipowners who, in a certain way, are able to be rewarded through points that will be prescribed and because good Italian maritime transport in Croatia has a certain advantage over other boaters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56364	Thank you very much. We have an amendment to the second, Mr. Mato Arlovic, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56365	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It has already been said all about the priority concession and that it has not been officially awarded, it should not be awarded. First of all, it should be clear what a priority concession is, what public powers are and should know that according to the "Jadrolinija" Act, Croatia's "Jadrolinija" as a Croatian shipowner performs in the service of achieving the state interest of business as a public authority and that in this respect it should not give any priority concession so far under the applicable law as well as this law which is before us which is not met at all in the matter of the request which it has made within itself, and regarding Article 3 which states that public transport activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, because then Article 29 speaks of which conditions should be granted in order to grant the concession, there is no mention of protection of public interest. It is obvious that colleagues here have mixed pears and apples and received actually fruit, and have not resolved the matter of concessions or priorities or protection of special state interest related to the achievement of these issues, and I will talk about other things when there is a debate that I have applied for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56366	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56367	Now, Mr. President, I would like to correct Mr. Secretary of State, two incorrect allegations. The first is that privatisation has nothing to do with this government or this ministry. This is incorrect because by giving a concession on the lines now carried out by Jadrolini has nothing to do with privatisation, so there is a possibility that there will be no more privatisation at all, so there is a danger that Jadrolini will become completely worthless. Another incorrect allegation is that when tendering for concessions, no one who is not a company can come forward. This is simply not true because it is written in this Law, so we have already spoken one thing hundreds of times, and it is well thanked to God by amendment to intervene and it should be corrected to write as the maritime profession says to make it clear and unequivocally clear to all that someone who is a company can report to the Explicate Competition, and the other conditions will clearly meet the concession agreement in Article 3(3) of Article 28.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56368	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations also, Ms. Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56369	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State incorrectly stated that this legislative proposal is the empowerment of our state-owned shipowner, Jadrolinius, and, as an example, cites the government's investment, however, it is not true. That's what the profession said, that's what the economy said, that's what our shipmen said, that's exactly this legal proposal is an introduction to the privatisation of "Jadrolinia" and that one killing me softly or to the wars slowly in five wars instead of immediately while it's strong and strong. At the end of one boater, it doesn't make the amount of ships, it makes the lines, and you know it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56370	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56371	Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Bacic literally said that this government has no intention of privatizing Jadrolini. Wrong, Mr. Secretary of State. On page 26, I quote: "For this very reason your ministry" you, meaning the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development as the Resort Ministry responsible for the situation in this area ordered the preparation of studies in early April 2005 by the Faculty of Economics of the University of Zagreb on the subject, quote: "Conception and the proposal for privatisation of Jadrolinija." So who's lying now, who's going to privatize that? However, there is an even bigger problem, as no one from your ministry reacted when the director or director of Jadrolinier called Mr. Loncar a "balvan revolution" strike. How is he not ashamed, how is he not ashamed, how is it that none of you have changed him to this day? Well, these people are in '91. They broke through the "balvan revolution" towards Dubrovnik, and today this same man calls them the balvanans.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56372	Thank you. Ordered a study. If someone ordered the study, they didn't sell anything if they ordered the study. The study is ordered to see what will appear. And correcting the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56373	Mr. Chairman, I'm correcting an incorrect quote from the Secretary of State. Jadrolini with 55 ships has no competition and it is evident they will receive concessions. The Secretary of State in the same presentation declares that we do not want to confuse the existing situation, we have old ships and we need to change concessionaries, therefore I do not know what is the exact quote because these are two completely opposite allegations, unsustainable allegations and the truth is that "Jadrolini" has old ships, but the question remains whether and whether this old ship is more secure in the Adriatic Sea with Croatian sailors than any new ship with who knows what kind of seamen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56374	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! So, no doubt, the proposal for this law as well as in the first reading brought great attention to the MPs and that it is obviously a law that can be observed on both sides. I think it's right to smoke cold. I must, at first, actually respond to the quote of Minister Calmeta, who, among other things, explained that investments in Jadrolini are a guarantee that Jadrolini will not be privatised or that something bad will not happen to Jadrolini. If four ships had been purchased, if they were new, three used ships I would have counted here by heart as all of the island's twenty ships who are indeed the Dick of our coastal and linear traffic from Mark Paul, Dubrovnika, Istria, Petra Hektorovica, Ujevića and many others who have really achieved one level in recent years that we islanders long ago wanted. And the the thesis by which it is guaranteed to invest in Jadrolini that nothing bad will happen to her could be helped by the very story of our privatisation when we prepared the banks by resuscitating them with state money and then selling them afterwards. Well, it's a model that's always possible and it's always good to doubt such models if we're not sure that privatizing our biggest shipman is actually our best interest. I have nothing against competition, of course, and competition, but I think every country, so each individual and every economic operator is tasked with realistically assessing the situation in which they are in order to make the right decisions and to actually improve what is the objective of this law. Among other things, it is truly guaranteed to improve the quality of transport between the island and the coast, an inter-islandal connection that I do not doubt. I don't doubt it because there's almost no inter-islandal connection. That's right. That'll probably get better. But will improve the integration of the island with the mainland and reach the next period of standards that we have achieved is very questionable. I wouldn't be so sure and I couldn't be sure if I was a representative of the government to introduce it and put it on paper and guarantee that the situation would be better in this regard. We have undoubtedly been building this system for ten years and it is very difficult to expect that someone will quickly replace this system successfully. So let's at least be a little more careful about our national wealth and wealth and try to secure at least one longer period to see how it all works together. For the last time, I was saying that the first attempts to introduce a private or some new shipowner was not quite the happiest was in the form of our private shipowner from Split who received a concession on the Supetar-Split line and it seems to me that there are often problems for a quality way to maintain that line. You know, it's not a very easy job. It is very difficult and complex, it requires very large investments, very good ships which at this point I do not think anyone in Croatia is able to offer. So as much as we're committed to the competition, we just have to say what are potential shipmen doing the job instead of Jadrolinia. So who are they? Is there any? Will they be born in one day? Will they be created from the heavens? It's impossible, people. If there's really no evil intention in that, and I don't believe that this intention is possible that the existing shipowner is being torn apart in a way that's torn apart a lot of what's in our country. And I don't think we should allow it, no matter what the concession law might pass, but we would have to protect this much, much better than it was done by this law. Here, we in the HSS have given a simple amendment that does not necessarily solve what all the clubs in the form of amendments have offered, but even if the article 69 clearly states that the privatisation of Jadrolinia will not be carried out without the consent of the Croatian Parliament and without its clear will about it, at least so much as to make sure that no one can think of anything that will certainly be harmful in the long term for the quality of transport between the island and our coast. I, on this second part of the law where it's talked about the agency, also have an objection. The Agency, which would be a regulatory body, is composed as much as I remember or proposed and its administrative council of two ministers, of two representatives of the ministry, of one representative of the Ministry of Finance as if this other was not a ministry, means three representatives from the Government and one representative from the Chamber of Commerce and one representative from the Register of Ships. So if you want to be quite convincing that you do not want to have a majority in that council then it would be normal for a representative of the Ministry to be a representative of the island council or a representative of the seamen, or a representative of the shipowners, so let there be potentially different interests in the award of future concessions if that is the case but I do not see any reason not to do so and the ministry if the concept of the agency is done in this way. Whether or not this concept of the law is going to get consent depends on us, but I think that without all these fences that have been said and that many of the representatives' clubs have pointed out about traffic security we need to be here and a little bit and boast about the safety of traffic on our Adriatic. Thank God, I can't think of any more significant malice at this time of my life, which is very important. So the system was still working, and with age it became more interesting and more quality. I say, now there are so many high-quality ships, no matter what some of them are a little out of date. I doubt anyone at this point can, apart from existing shipmen who certainly do not want to underestimate who also in a certain space have performed their role in a satisfactory way that at all costs would want something new that will be, which will be as fast as it has been, which has been this so far. That's why I'm looking a little sceptively at the adoption of this law, because even under the existing laws, all of this was possible. I think that the islanders are expecting at least this kind of care and the quality of the transport that has been established and that if they feel that they are hiding behind this law something that is not in order to better connect them to the mainland, they will react very quickly and actually show their dissatisfaction. I still want to believe that this will be thought of enough. That you won't be allowed as it is often said to kill an entire ox for a steak. Or eventually to take a step that would be questioned after a certain time by the very system of liner shipping in the sea between our islands and the mainland. That is, if the Proposer shows further concern about these problems that we heard about in this debate, the HSS Club will support the bill proposal, but unless we have a guarantee that all these findings or intentions of the law will be implemented in this way, and among other things truly rightly, those who notice that there is and clearly expressed in the explanation the government's wish to order a study, or that the study is commissioned and that it is publicly and clearly spoken about the privatisation of Jadrolinia. Perhaps it would be more correct to suggest the privatisation of Jadrolinia immediately, and to go to concessioning immediately if it is already wanted. But I don't think it's in the interest of everyone and almost anyone, and I want to believe that with great attention they will approach the final proposal of this law and that the damage done in this country in many segments, and yet this is a very, very important branch in which, as in the Railways, we cannot make a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56376	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HSLS and DC, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56377	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that this is the first case in fact that in the name of the Club it says that spoken from the frog's perspective but we really are not guilty, the colleague, Adlesic is from Bjelovar, my colleague Chehok is from Varazdin, a colleague from Piplić is, excuse me from Varazdin, a colleague from Slavonski Brod, I am from Osijek, but say some times and helps the effect of the human eye. He says he sees everything but himself, so perhaps these, all those who spoke from this island perspective from colleagues Roic, Marasovic, Tonci Tadic and others, may indeed be that close to the problem and problem, the problem distances away. I always remember, I always remember in that former Yugoslavia it was not clear to me how the best water polo clubs were Youth from Zagreb and Partizan from Belgrade and then they explained to me that in fact the largest number of these people with, down from the Adriatic played for one and the other club. Then still, the Hungarians eventually denied it all because still, still, the best water polo is played in Hungary so that someone with, someone on the island or someone on the coast still doesn't mean they can say, can talk, or have a monopoly on that, to that kind of speech. This law... In fact, when he announced himself, he caused a whole series of typical Croatian doubts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remember a show, one of the most popular, these most watched Open. On the one hand, they were colleagues Linic and co-worker Komadin, and on the other hand they seemed to me to be colleagues Pancic and colleagues, and Minister Kalmeta. They have just shown all the doubts as to how many, indeed, important, too important Croatian laws, which are actually proposed by the Transport Act, on line and occasional coastal transport, which actually brings, which is, what is, what is lost? And in fact, always a man who is in that position speaks from these one liberal point of view always has some ambivalence. By definition, we must be against the monopoly. We believe that competition, market, law and so forth, market laws, offers and demand are something that determines many of our social and economic relations, and on the other hand, when, when you speak against monopoly, then, I remember one conversation with the director of INA who told me, "Yes, everyone wants to have these gas stations. I don't know, along the Zagreb-Split highway, Zagreb-Rijeka, towards Osijek, but he said "but there's already an island or some remote place other than the INA is not coming." And then it really shows that, as it turns out, those liberals who advocate and state intervention are no less liberals because they're also in favour of state intervention because it's just the fact that some gas station has to exist, it's got to exist on some island. That on that island you have, you have, I don't know, I don't know it seems to me on, on Mljet that on a thousand souls, and I don't know over summer it's a little more but even those thousands of souls must live and those ten months when some others, some others there on that island don't come. And that these people also have needs like we do in Zagreb, Split, Osijek or any other part of Croatia. And then there's exactly how to find, how to find this, that balance, that measure between what's called the market and where the state really has to work to ensure its impact and to enable every single person in this country to live a decent and normal life. And it's a very similar situation with what we have, what we're talking about today, here today. I say we at the Club agree that it is very difficult to talk about this concept of maritime transport liberalisation that certainly affects the ship's connection of our islands without taking care of the fate of Jadrolinia. It's completely, completely clear. It's all actually the facts that were given. And this connection but what's going to happen to Jadrolinia. It is also clear to us that it is difficult to talk about raising the quality of transport without ensuring adequate competition. Without competition, we are afraid that, in fact, some times they are the best, and the best in some way can get a little smudged and yes, and that, in fact then, we have an unquality transport and which certainly as our tourist country, the maritime land in perception is not, it's not good. I completely agree with my colleague Roic what my colleague Ruža would say I don't like just, I think the islands two, two weeks in progress, over the year, but it really has to be as an integral Croat must be taken care of really that on the islands of all 365 days, but what we have within a few years allowed to see is really that transport, that there is a whole series of ships that are truly of world quality and you don't have to be ashamed. I did not drive any better in Canada or in America or any other country like I do not know how to drive from Split to Brač, Hvar or I do not know the catamarans from Vela Luka to Split, all this shows. But especially in some way you get nostalgia when you look at some old ones, you read some old books then, I don't know that we had, I don't know, Trieste, Pula, Rijeka, Kotor, up there almost every day, every day that there was a line there in the early 20th century. And now that it was, and it was actually great ships that really showed one high standard of living at the beginning of the 20th century, and that today it was actually just this almost one memory even though little of us nostalgics see it. And why don't you put something like that back again? But what I'm saying is, what I'm saying now is the same as this conditioned liberal or reluctant liberal, I have to ask myself how to secure this competition that Jadrolini is certainly necessary. And it's a competition that won't pull back and shut down and choke those domestic shipmen who can certainly have a hard time catching up with foreign competition. And you, that's exactly what those shipmen are going to be working in exactly these places that, say, don't care about all these OMVs and Istra Benz's, and I don't know who's coming into our country, but they only care about the main road. So these domestic shipmen, you really are very valuable and important people, need to provide them with something, and the law must achieve such solutions as to guarantee that their existence makes sense, and that their work that they do is a job that is of really high national interest. And we really don't see anything anti-liberal, but in fact, and our position, our club's position is to just condition our vote for this law just as much as we will recognize in the law, in the articles of a solution that will guarantee that these people don't stay, and those ships don't stay on the links, but that they have their jobs and that they're not just going to give in to a wild game, a wild market that will really take them out of, or prevent them from doing business. So the question down concession is a complex question. Because I say, it must satisfy on one side the needs of the island's population, the specificity of the shipowners, but I say we also take care of the well-being of our own carrier. Because otherwise, there will be a complete disappearance of domestic shipmen from the market. This is not only a national issue, but it is imposed as a major social problem. Because all we know is that a large number of coastal and other populations are linked to the upbuilding of the ship's transport. And indeed, I would also like it not to go, when in the Parliament we soon talk about some other strategies, some other visions of not being alone, it seems to me that the only island is Korčula where we do not follow the decline of the population, but there is still a certain positive trend. I'd like to... Here, that's nice to hear, that's really nice to hear. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just to show that we really think about Croatia as a whole in all its parts. And now the last time you talked about both those laws and courts, it's this idea that sometimes something is easy to end, but when you stop it, it's very hard to come back, and then learn something from these strangers, I don't know. The Austrians are very much guarding, I don't know the court in a mountain or some place, because if you move the court, it's like you've removed school, church or something. That's how the population escapes. It is also important to take care here that if you want to relive the islands, then you must certainly take care of how they are connected to the coast. And it's very often you really have and that the journey is just about a small adventure, a little odyssey, how you'll, you can expect those good ideas of yours, visions to stream and personalize. I say, of course, this issue of "Jadrolinia" is imposed as our largest shipman because without adding additional provisions to the text of the law, his fate seems to be uncertain to us in the club, and thus the existence of his employees. It is unclear whether and when our state carrier will go into the privatisation process, because although a minimum period of 5 years is mentioned, there is also a question here. Here, today some people here have spoken of which I want and I have no doubt and I believe in their good intentions that this privatisation is carried out gradually and over those five years, and in a way that Jadrolini will slowly begin to lose its lines. That I don't think would be good. This is still being warned by representatives of Croatia's Maritime Unions. It should not be thought that they really have their own only particular interests, but indeed people who, in some ways, have judged this law to be bad or unacceptable. And that, now, is the question of whether we can fix this law through amendments to ensure certain stability of Jadrolinius over a longer period of time. The stability of our shipowners could be ensured by the award of the primary concession for all concessionaries so far, and by the government's commitment to the application of the national collective contract, with precise conditions of standards and age of ships. However, since the minimum standards have not been established, such a situation can lead to unfair competition, both domestic and foreign shipowners. This could lead, I won't repeat that story recently with one about Split and when it came to establishing a city council that played a role, so once it was good, so it's not good, so there are ships that can little, so I can't do a bit, so they're not on the Croatian flag, etc. These are all actually things that leave us all with one step of taste. And I'm saying, I'd still like to play clean cards and catch up with this private personal interest isn't the only interest that's going to dominate politics. Well, after all, and our relations in the Parliament. I'm saying, too, the hiring of these foreign sailors by domestic shipmen. There's always a possibility. For example, these people from the building assure me that this moment, I don't know, a whole series of people from Romania can be introduced who will work for a lot cheaper. It would all be good and all that would show some, I don't know, industrialization, modernisation of Croatia if you didn't know that you had about 300 thousand people around unemployed. And it certainly isn't good to work for a lower salary than a domestic seaman. Then you're creating exactly, you're creating, you're actually increasing this number, this circle of the unemployed. That's not good. It causes a whole series of not only economic but God and political problems. In fact, provisions providing for the possibility of hiring these foreign seamen only in case the domestics are not located at the Employment Office in our opinion at the club are not sufficient to guarantee that this provision cannot be implemented. Because domestic sailors don't usually apply to the Bureau. Because they don't consider it a convenience for themselves. On the terms of our, I say, high unemployment, I don't think we're in a position to think about hiring foreign sailors. I think it's more important than ever from a national but strategic economic aspect. This is precisely why this possibility should be effectively prevented by law and, in this respect, processed through the amendments. And it is these amendments that will greatly affect the vote of the HSLS, LS and DC clubs. In addition, the possibility of awarding a concession for a line to a foreign shipowner only if there are no interested domestic shipowners, the domestic shipowners do not consider it sufficient as a guarantee again, as it is not sufficiently well defined, which means that a foreign shipowner may become very light on the basis of the registration of that foreign shipman in the register of the Republic of Croatia. It is also a concern that this law as well as the Maritime Code will be subsequently corrected through various... The rules, the instructions, but it's just his resuscitation. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, taught by the situation in the Maritime Code, parts of which are, for example, parts of the Sea Code. Those relating to the social rights of the seafarer still do not apply, union presidents who rightly warn us, are expressing skepticism over this proposed law. It also needs to be looked at the proposed system of line coastal transport, which applies primarily to county and local lines because it will be impossible to provide financial support and subsidisation of shipping lines from their budgets, which are already convulsing in commitments that are hardly or almost difficult to reconcile, and it really does not make sense that these very important things that really concern the state's interest, the national interest that we bring down to local and county levels, because I am afraid that their budgets are not enough that they can do this quality work that would have to be done by the state. But I am just saying that we are aware that this law has many shortcomings, but precisely from this debate which seems to me to be good, which shows precisely this fundamental suspicion and club of HSLS, LS and DC is ready to participate in it and try to connect with one side and the competition, but also protect these interests which are in no way different than through the very wisdom of the Government and the Minister and the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56378	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the real lady representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56379	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. What is the speed and purpose of this bill? We heard the explanation from your mouth, Secretary of State. But just everything you've explained, it's all brought in, as support and as arguments for law-making here I am here, and as you've all heard from the opposition are unanimous and attacked by this law that exactly those values that you've highlighted as protection and support for this bill, these are the values that have been questioned and these values to their final consequences. We really need to ask here and the key and fundamental question, is this bill the way it is and if it remains so, not accepting the amendments announced by the SDP club, which are also on the trail of the Croatian Shipowners' Association "Mare Nostrum" but also the union and the general professions, then we can ask whether this is the beginning of the euthanasia of our seafaring. I would really be correct here and quote our colleague Dorote Pesic who, at a conference, has just opened up the question of this law and fear whether we Croats are really a people who are specific about what starts to destroy when good things start. Jadrolinija is a successful boatman, a shipman who was pleased with the passengers, for the pleasure of the islanders performed quality and performed quality of his work. We remember very well from these parts down here that the seamen of Jadrolinius were fighters on the front line. The lines didn't even stand when the grenades fell, and now you're not interested in it at all, so then you talk. I think that's exactly what these people are for, and for that reason, and if you think that the protectors of this particular population and about that and that moment should be taken care of and taken care of. This government often highlights its primary concept of coastal protection, the first national interest in protecting the island, we will ban the sale of etc. But here I am not going to mention the other laws, do one thing and speak exactly the other and propose laws that question all of this, all of that verbalization, release concerns and protection. So, this debate here today, that's the battle that's basically to simplify and expose the whole thing to the end, is a battle for Jadrolini. Is the state with this bill of law essentially attacking Jadrolini and what the outcome will be? It is certain that here many colleagues have warned of the ultimate goal and what it all smells like, especially if we see the bill itself, one longevity, preparation for the ultimate goal, for the privatisation of Jadrolinia. But that's how it's shown that Jadrolini is being prepared, please, for the competition. And what's all that for? And it's incorrect that it's shown here by the government, by the government, that that's something that makes us both agree on accession and stabilisation. It's just not true. See Italy as it protects its interests especially of this coastal transport. You speak Croatian companies will register and they will only be able to carry out this line transport. Yes, that Croatian companies, Genovezi, will not say "Genoveza" because these are so few different associations than the famous family "Genoviska" which has already formed, please, the Croatian company. Well, it's just a cover. We know how companies are founded and who's behind them. They're strangers. And then you will say that it is a Croatian company in which to speak Croatian and where to hire who, local people and sailors from the European Union. At what price? Well, that's certainly what the union is just warning, and here it goes to apply, so that's how it's going to be the Danish prices, the price at which our sailor can't sail who's so small and low-paid. And then the application of the Foreign Employment Act takes effect. Don't you think that law won't find its application right here in this branch and why we're ruining our own seaship? It's really something to ask here a question whose account it seems to be. It is clear that concession lines can lead to a decrease in the value of "Jadrolinia", a possible, or already clear and secure loss of lines in competitions. We should have led the way, and I appeal to it if it is not too late, to take care of the safety of navigation, to the employment of Croatian shipyards you are talking about, the question is where and for whose account if all this is achieved under such a bill, how busy our shipyards will be. About the education of future maritime personnel, especially about the interest of islanders and the overall development of the island. The safety of the voyage, we see how it was accomplished. SEM marina and hiring and giving this concession as a concession to the coalition, as the price of the coalition government in Split. It's perfectly clear and you can kill it all you want. You can prepare yourself for corrections of the incorrect quote and speak to me here, so Mr. Buljubašic was neither on the list. So please give it to me, so it's not all of Split, but all of Croatia, and it's already perfectly clear. So you can't kill something that's so obvious. Clearly, it's such ships, we know what the staff were doing there and what she needed to find or find or find an inspection. And as little as possible are the unfavourable natural conditions of who's sailing? Sailing ships of the Adriatic. To the safety of our citizens, primarily our islanders. Here, please, as a key argument, it states that there's a secretary of state from the island so he wouldn't go against himself. So please, what are these arguments from the serious state and one serious proposal? Well, I care about the citizens and I personally care about how to drive a secretary of state and any of us here. So what does a citizen care? They don't care, we're here in the interest of how they're gonna drive and how safe they're gonna be. These ships, every once in a while, happened several times that they threatened the safety of passengers. And what about concessions? Nothing to anyone. You know how concessions are awarded? That now scientific research has shown that every other concession falls to you in the administrative court, along with every other building permit. So, every other concession. And then it's a guarantee to us that this independent body agency is going to do it. Very neutral and successful. So it's obvious and it's obvious that we're waiting for Jadrolinia's verification because it's not going to sail anymore, nor will it have certain lines. So, this investment, it was also invested by the former government, who invested more, and so, it's a school-based and unnecessary controversy that is now being done here. The only solution, therefore, is exactly what the profession and trade unions warn about and is a priority concession. I'm sure my SDP colleagues will talk more about it because it's obvious that there's no understanding of what a concession is. At least we saw it and had a chance to spot it from the State Secretary's explanation. So, here, despite the proclaimed definition for islanders, for islands, for our marine, is this our naval orientation? We see there's something else at work. What then, when we stay, we will be a maritime country without our own national company, where our sailors will probably sail further and even more on foreign ships because the Bulgarians will come here. That's usually the concept of completeness, that is, increasing our population. It's our demographic population policy, and our sailors will sail further on foreign ships. But yes, we will continue to drill into our national chests singing songs about Domagog's ships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56380	The bell towers of the ship. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56381	An incorrect colleague told the county concession between Split and Supetar. Namely, that was, the procedure was carried out in accordance with the law and regulations. A single concessionaire came forward and that was the beginning of 2005 when the current coalition in the City of Split was not, since both the city and county authorities were still in office. We opened a small door for possible privatisation. One of the only concessionaries reported and received a concession under the law and regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56382	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56383	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. When it comes to the liberalisation of coastal maritime transport in the Republic of Croatia, public interest should first be taken into account, i.e. the importance of this type of transport for the life of island and coastal populations, the functioning of the island's economy, the development of tourism and the island as a whole, and the integration of the island with the mainland and the island of each other. I support the Law's intensification to try to ensure more efficient and quality transport performance by expanding market access. The proposed law is pro-European and very liberal at first sight, however, it allows the current level of quality of services to be achieved, transport significantly reduced. It is also what the inhabitants of our islands fear most. Under the draft law in line, foreign shipowners can be included when registering a company in the Republic of Croatia. The crews of ships do not have to be Croatian in accordance with Article 28, and it is realistic to expect that older ships will be included in the transport, as the most important elements of the offer are the level of concession and the level of support, according to Article 29. Which makes the current line maintenance security very questionable. All of this has already been seen on the example of the SEM marina, i.e. the frequently mentioned ship "Split 1" on the Split – Supetar line. As Mr. Peronja just said, it's the only concessionaire who answered that line. Right because Jadrolini wasn't supposed to answer that concession. She just shouldn't have called. It appears that, under the conditions set out in Article 28 for obtaining a concession, it will be very important to have good ties in the Agency or in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And here we also come to the also often disputed Agency for Coastal, Linear and Maritime Transport regarding the award of public transport concessions on state lines. Although some may have been in the press the past few days concerned that the headquarters and, basically, the regulatory agency would be in Split and tried to stage Rijeka and Split. I'm saying there's no conflict, and I don't think there's any reason to worry. With or without the Agency, regardless of where it will be located and whether a person will receive a concession will not depend on the conditions set out in Article 28 but on some other characteristics which, unfortunately, the Proposer did not specify in this proposal. The question arises why the award of concessions could not be left in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development or it is easier to manage and control the Agency's Administrative Council than the entire ministry. If we look at members of the Governing Council, or who manages the Agency, who will make decisions on giving and taking concessions, give consent to the price list of services, etc. The question arises as to why there are no representatives of the seamen among the members of the Council, why there is not one of the representatives of the island's population whose quality of transport connections with the mainland is no luxury but an existential need, or yet a representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is needed because he certainly understands better the needs of the islanders than they do. Finally, it can be concluded that a seat in the Governing Council will be very much sought. For example, Article 46(2) states that if the concession authority does not agree to extend the concession, the concession provider may, by means of a direct contract, grant the concession to another shipowner within the same scope and under the same conditions as the earlier concession, and how much closer this will depend, first of all, on the strength of the connection with the concession provider. However, the law would have to regulate the protection of existing shipowners who have successfully maintained certain lines by extending the time period of these concessions and by setting priority concessions for existing state lines for a minimum of 10 years in order to strengthen their positions in front of the competition and to complete investment investments in their fleet, so I also addressed the amendment. That's where I think of Jadrolini first. This shipowner performs close to 90% of all passenger traffic and maintains most of the state lines to the satisfaction of users and their services to both the host population and tourists. Jadrolini is on its way to a fleet reconstruction program by building nine ships in domestic shipyards. The programme's intention was to adapt the rules of the European Union, prepare for the competition, raise standards and safety of navigation. Ships are intended for individual lines exclusively in domestic shipyards, which also provides jobs for domestic shipbuilding. This intention, "Jadrolinia", was recognised and supported by the government's insurance of 10% ship's price, while the remaining 90% secures "Jadrolinia" from its own sources through commercial loans, so it is not true that Minister Calmeta's claim that the government has shown great concern for "Jadrolinia" by investing 114m euros in it. As it now reaches the payment of the credits mentioned, since four new constructions are already built in domestic shipyards, with the possibility of losing the Jadrolini lines, could not generate revenue that would settle credit rates, resulting in a downturn in the company's market value. In order to complete and fully implement the Fleet Reconstruction Programme for the period 2004-2008 worth the 114m euros mentioned and repay the commercial loans it is necessary to grant it a 10-year priority concession, i.e. until the end of the investment cycle. It should be noted that other shipowners who maintain state lines are also in a similar situation, primarily rapturing. This would protect jobs, increase the current quality of service, and ensure a part of the work for domestic shipbuilding. This Final Proposal for a Law does not provide jobs for employees anywhere, but allows the bill to ensure that shipowners are granted concessions to other shipowners within a very short period of time, theoretically and less than a year, which can result in the loss of the most profitable lines which are also the highest market value, and thus jobs and the sale of shipowners with lost lines. Where's the government's mother's concern for her child, Jadrolini? Why does Jadrolini put himself in an unfavourable position and thus push into the uncertain future? Wasn't a similar scenario already seen in the already slightly forgotten world giant Croatia Line? I agree here with my colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, that this debate is actually a battle for Jadrolinija. I'd like to, if it's possible for someone to explain to me a few dilemmas that I haven't been able to clarify by reading this whole material. I ask the question of how does the law solve the summer period when on the islands there are ten times as many people as in winter? Example, ferry line... In the winter there is a ferry and fully meets the needs, four, five ferrys sail on that line in the summer and sometimes do not get on board waiting for up to three hours or more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a similar situation on the other lines. It seems to me that the law has not worked out enough in summer when the needs of transportation as an integral part of the tourist offer are five or sixfold larger. Which shipowner will hold ships in the fleet for the rest of the year to meet the need for three summer months. Here we come to a key dilemma, is it more important to position capital and gain or satisfy the general social interest? For example, it was also necessary to define more clearly the conditions of the competition, limit the age of the ships and ensure the viability of the seamen's jobs. The jobs of the Adriatic Seamen are not safe and there is room for fears because the liberalisation of the market did not bring anything good in the transition countries, so it is hard to expect that something else will happen in Croatia in this case. Because of these dilemmas and the indeterminateness of the proposed provisions, I advocate that the law goes into third reading or that at least some indetermination of the amendment is made through amendments. Basically, I think the idea of the law is good, so I tried to improve some indiscretions to get the text itself in quality. I would now not further explain the amendments because it will be an opportunity to vote on them only to briefly remind which parts of the text. Therefore, it concerns the content of the determination, harmonisation and publication of the navigation order, the consent to the navigation order, the decision to tender for concessions, the advantage of the award of concessions, the award of concessions, the concession agreement and the priority concessions. In the end, whether and how successful this Law will be in satisfying public interests or at the hands of individual and selfish private interests, it will best show time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56384	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56385	Incorrectly, her colleague stated that Jadrolinija was not allowed to report to the Split-Supetar concession competition, she should have come forward and she would have gotten a concession because my best shipman and I personally invited the management of Jadrolinija to submit to the competition, they did not understand the desire for us to slowly privatise one part, and this is actually the application of a kind of legal possibility of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56386	Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56387	Thank you. Here you are, colleague Perman, saying quite precisely that on this line Supetar or Split Supetar did not report Jadrolini but there is a marina. There's no sign of Jadrolini on that line that's gold. The real question is why didn't she answer. Would the chairman of the administration if it was his private company missed not answering. It wouldn't be safe. See, I think we ended this story here. Although a crime of trust abuse has been abolished during this government, the central crime of economic crime in every modern world, but we are still using socialist terms, so we have the abuse of trust. Even in this crime scene, why didn't the board president answer this? He damaged the state-owned company because it failed to report to the most profitable line in the competition. You see, in every orderly state, that man would be in jail. And the only way to save him from prison is to give up his defense secret under whose warrant he didn't answer. I don't think this story is over. Here a state company is damaged and therefore needs to be in such a situation, then it would certainly be such a competition that is illegal because it is not only a procedure in this sense how counterpart Perman sees the situation, so everything is solved. But where someone does not act and is obliged to act it is often a greater sin than when some harmless formal mistakes are found.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56388	A reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56389	Well, I really must repeat once again that Jadrolini really should not have applied for this concession and that fact in favour of that is enough that the President of the Board is still standing in that place even though we know that this line means Split-Supetar is the most profitable line of state lines on the Adriatic. And just because he's still standing in that spot, even though he hasn't answered enough, he's talking about not actually having to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56390	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Why is a law ever passed when the law is passed? Well, I guess it's to fix something that's wrong. Now, what's wrong with our shipping line? Because passengers don't transport, because the ferry is standing, because the state shipman is in front of bankruptcy. No, none of that. On the contrary. Well, there's still a bill being proposed. And why is that? In whose interest is that? It's in someone's interest to propose it. It's certainly not in the state interest, it certainly isn't. So if he's not in state let's ask him again whose place he's in. If he's not in state, he's in somebody's private. So who could it be in whose private interest it would be to propose a law like this. Well, you know, it's not hard to answer that question at all. Here, you are constantly talking about Se marina, the concession received by a certain Buljubašić on the most profitable line Split-Supetar. As he is, here advocates the new government concessionaries. So we have an example of the concessionaire, and we have an example of how he does the job. He broke the ship by sea of three bofors, on a bonus, so to speak, endangered the lives of the passengers. That's how the concession works. And why this very Buljubašić with such a bad boat, so how exactly? Here's a colleague of Peronja's. He's the only one who answered. So he just won that concession and then later his entire team of political subways enabled power in Split. And now you have to reward a man. This means that the law is proposed in order to qualify for an ordinary private interest. Look, we've seen it before, this society has already seen it, it's nothing new. That's what privatisation looked like. The laws were passed, those laws made possible the robbery, and then it was said that the people of God had no robbery, everything was by law. What robbery, what robbery are you talking about? Everyone knows in this country that Croatia has been robbed and everyone knows how it was robbed. By the laws that have just been deliberately passed to enable that robbery and here the same thing is being prepared. You are proposing a law to legalise Buljubashic's concession, to pay the debt for the government in Split. What are state lines and what is their significance? The state lines connect 45 inhabited islands from 49 of them. They allow communication for 150,000 islanders. Jadrolinija boater with 55 ships with a total capacity of 25 thousand 540 passengers and 3 thousand 300 vehicles. In total passenger traffic, it participates with 90%, employs a thousand 450 sailors and 220 people still in agencies. It is absurd that the state that invested in that fleet, in one such shipman who has such data behind it, is absurd to now give the ship's lines to a concession. And the only thing that can keep that shipman alive is the lines he's got, but my lords, my dear, this is nothing new. This is the same thing. That's what we had a chance to watch at Croatialine. They sell the lines first. Then when there's no lines, then ships are sold and what ships do when there's no lines. When ships are sold and then the company goes into liquidation because what a company that no longer has lines or ships is going to do. And then the director becomes the entrepreneur Dario Vukic. That man instead of sitting in prison for life for what he did, for life. Destroy a boatman like that. No, he's a respected HDZ contractor today. People, if you continue to work like this, if you do not need a lesson from Croatia that you are not allowed to destroy domestic companies, I do not know where you will take us. Here's Secretary of State Bacic saying, "The government has no intention of privatising Jadrolini in due time." What would the Mayor of Komadin "My Mothers" say? It's the only guarantee. That's all that was missing. It is expected to increase the need for new lines in Croatia. Tourism is developing. So why don't these new lines go to a concession? So put that in a concession. Who's defending you? Here on the high-speed lines of 14 of them, the sailline sails at 7, and 7 of them are in the concession. So give a concession for the new high-speed lines. Well, let the concessionaries come forward, let them sail. But don't destroy what exists. Are people of God making us do this? Is this what the European Union is pushing us to do? Is this law a P.Z.E. code?? It doesn't say. And it's normal not to write because no one's making us do this. In Italy, there is a state shipowner, Tireni. She was privatized. It was returned to state property. She's back. And now watch out for Italy can have a state shipman, and we're not good with a state shipman. We don't need it. And you justify it with national interests. So give the people of God not. Don't. What paint are you painting? Well, this is too obvious. This is too obvious. So think of a more sophisticated way. Find something else. Well, maybe give it a little bit less. But this is the kind of company that destroys it. To destroy the lives of so many families. So what will they live on? Of the same, from the social assistance that the former sailors of Croatia live on today. That's funny to see. Well, that's because you don't live on it. You're not a family, you don't have a family who worked in Croatia. And whose existence failed. You don't have it, so you're laughing at it. Well, that's easy to laugh about. Over someone else's evil fate. Well, don't make that fate that the croatiline sailors have passed for the Adriatic Seamen. Don't. To go destroy something of your own that's national. What's the value, and for the account of strangers or who knows who. People dear so what's the point, so where's the cheek to suggest something like this? Who's sailing to Italy? Are the Italian shipmen sailing? Who sails in Spain? Well, the Spanish shipmen. Who in Greece? Greek. So are our people sailing there? So why allow it when no one makes us do it? So why would you suggest that? If you want to act in the national interest, accept at least a priority concession for existing shipowners within 10 years. So give them at least 10 years to live. Perhaps in those ten years, your authority will change, and no one will propose this kind of madness anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56392	... Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Krono Peronja. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56393	Mr. President, my colleague keeps repeating what is not true, and I will say it again and again, and I will repeat the concession countless times, according to the law and regulations between Split and Supetar. The same shipowner received a concession on the Split-Vis high-speed railway given to him by the previous government and on other lines there is a concession such as the rapist, such as the Mediterranean and once again said in the town of Split, the Veli Misti list along with the HDZ coalition. No underground force. And I would ask Mr. President to prevent such insults from your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56394	Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56395	Mr. President, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will be brief in this debate. I'll talk more like an islander. Mr. Minister in the introduction said that Mr. Secretary of State Branko Bacic knows this problem best because he is the most, the most, driven by ferry. Well, that claim is quite questionable, not in this Assembly, in this House. [[Intruder: Among other things.]] That claim is quite questionable. I'm on a ferry at least twice a week. So at least twice a week, and I'd love to, I'd love to. I'd like to see you colleagues and colleagues on a ferry in a situation like this, so that shows this photograph. This photo was taken on 24.12., so on Christmas Eve 2003, when no ship in this area sailed except for rap sailing. So look at the waves going over, over the mast so over the mast ship. So the waves were somewhere over here with this all over 10 meters. ... So why are we sensitive to this? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For this very reason. We do not believe that by liberalising this activity in such a way as it is proposed that, that it will be improved or that the islands will not lose this quality of transport that they now have. I'm a rabbi as you know, so it's a company that's a private company. So she was privatized in 1992 under the law then. Its owners, the largest individual owner is the city of Rab with 20%. The rest are former, current and entrepreneurs from the island of Rab. And this has proved very good in our Croatian conditions. I'm extremely proud of this company's work. And she, I'm happy to find out that she sails when no boater so when no boater in this sub-marine harsh area sails except for the Rapian navigation. In this, in this photograph, it was actually the madness of the captain, the ferry commander who risked his life, risking the life of a sailor to save a human life. So he was driving an ambulance, an ambulance, or one of his patients to a hospital in Rijeka. Well, I'm not really sure I'm actually convinced 1,000% that by liberalising the market, by introducing other potential concessionaires on this line that this quality will remain. Rap sailing has the age of ships for 10 years. It has recently built two new ships, two new ships in "Vicor Lenc" with state support of 10% and so on and so forth, and with fear clearly, we look at it this way because, according to the bill's proposal on that line, any person who promises to comply with the requirements of Article 28 of this proposed law may come forward. We've already talked about it, so let's not chew on the same subject, so by amendment we'll probably fix that part of the law and then it'll be bearable. For us island transport connections, so boat connections mean a lot more than political ties. I would like some distinguished colleagues who discuss the island's traffic connection academically and who are not fortunate to live on the island to imagine the situation that at 9 or 10 o'clock a night on access roads, so the roads that enter their cities simply put the ramps, at 9 or 10 o'clock a night, and they can't, if they're home, if they're not home. So he's not coming. Imagine a situation like that. That's why we smoke cold. So, if we want to increase quality, I'm in favour, we should introduce free transport to small islands, so free transport. I mean, with Racane, I mean Iž... I mean these down islands of Is, Molati and these southern islands away, free transportation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so there's a very small number of people living there with a tendency to reduce numbers every year. So, let's get them a free ride. Let the last line on every inhabited island, on every larger inhabited island be the earliest in 24 hours. So let's discuss it. So let's push for an increase in transport quality. Because the elemental thing, the elemental civilizational gain, is that somewhere, somewhere, you can come and go. And that's what the islanders are deprived of. I can't go home whenever I want, but when I can. Unlike people who are not so lucky to live on islands, they can go home whenever they want. I just can't do it. I just can't do it when he drives my ferry. And that's why I'm afraid, that's why I'm afraid of this law. And he's not good at his solutions. That's exactly why. It is necessary to protect the quality of existing shipmen, give them time to prepare quality for the future competition, not to expose them to one ruthless race for money, for, and for everyone else who carries it. Well, in that sense, I was speaking in the introduction to the club's name what mattered. Here a little bit, understand me, I'm more of an islander emotionally and this kind of bill I personally can't support, but I think the amendments, so the amendments we've proposed, are making an important adjustment to that law. He can get his pass, but without their respect, we can't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56396	Thank you. It's been seven hours, and then you'll continue tomorrow. The first is the honourable representative of the Crown of Peronja. We are continuing to discuss the final proposal for a law on the transport of direct and occasional coastal maritime transport. It's the honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go. Order! Peace at home to this, yes, yes. He's a colleague of Peron. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56398	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Ministers, State Secretary and Assistants. Just before us is the final proposal of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport as a result not only of the first reading but also of the work of the island council, which is another step towards making an important topic, an important topic, and of those bodies that are actually most interested in the adoption of such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56399	You speak a little louder, and please from the ground floor galleries please try to calm down. It's impossible? It's possible. Please help these assistants, these members of the government and the MPs to get out of their seats, so I don't tell them anything nicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56400	The quality of the island's transport connection with the coast is one of the basic assumptions for the life of the population and for the functioning of the island's economy, and this is an existential need of the island and a prerequisite for the development of the island at all. Therefore, public transport in line coastal maritime transport has a status of activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia. He has so far been regulated in several laws, the Law on Public Transport, the Law on the "Jadrolinia", the Law on Islands and the modern approach nomotechnically is precisely to be in one place in one law arranged to make it easier for the legislator to decide to apply and supplement when the time for this matures in reality. These laws, which I have listed, aimed at enabling continuous and regular transport between coastal and island towns, islands and islands to develop long-term and inter-island connections and such a system is characterized by an entire annual transport on 46 regular state lines, 21 ferry lines, 14 fast-ships, 7 classic ships and 4 ferry ships on which 6 million and 780 thousand passengers were transported in 2000 and 800 thousand vehicles. In 2001, a total of 9 million and 780 thousand passengers and 2 million 582,000 vehicles were transported in 2004. Such maritime connections included 45 inhabited islands of 49 with 117 thousand 99 inhabitants, much less than the islands had in the early 19th century. This includes Peljesac peninsula and 42 islands have regular daily transportation while three islands such as Kornati, Srakan and St. Andrija with a total of 10 inhabitants does not have regular daily relationships, which should be regulated in the future resolution and regulation of the law because these small islands deserve a good maritime bond. Security for islanders is always the one guaranteed by shipmen who receive the concession that they can regularly except when it is a higher force in the weather to connect those islands. What should also be pursued and arranged is to have a relationship with developed islands in 23 hours, a prerequisite is a good and safe port and I believe that in the next period we will certainly arrange it. This bill of law is even more and more specific about the conditions that the ship should have. However, it should certainly be considered that there should be a small change in Article 13 if the current economic reality and technical possibility permit it. Classic shipping lines are carried out by passenger ships, I would add to a ferry line whose speed is not less than 15 knots. We all want more comfortable, safer and faster ships, of course that prices are the same as is specified in the article in this law which says that prices are very important and that this should be taken into account in order to equalise with prices on land to the county concerned in road transport. Of course, such procedures should certainly be done if we have real economic opportunities, and the islanders as they have been patient so far and wanted to contribute. As Article 67 also states, students, students, pensioners, persons over 65 years of age who have a residence on the islands and healthcare professionals in carrying out their regular and urgent transport of patients have the right to free transport on lines connecting the island with the mainland and the islands to each other which proves proper correction. The island's annual programme of the Republic of Croatia has established a discount on public transport prices, and in order to compensate for part of the revenues that shipowners cannot generate because of the setting of prices that are less, the level of concession fee or increase support will also be reduced. What I would certainly like to stress is that safe and good boaters, boards, more modern, could not do anything without good sailors, good commanders, so I would like this opportunity for representatives of Jadrolinia, trade unions and sailors to give warm greetings, because it is important that islands have secure and good connections to preserve jobs and complement them with modern and well-trained personnel. It might be easier if the 46th had not been taken away by ships, if many private shipmen had not run out of basic resources, that many families had failed for this reason, but also on these grounds grew today's Jadrolini. I would also like to point out that this very law is finally moving in what can be thought about for every segment of society, it is a privatization for liner shipping of passengers and cargo, but not immediately and not in conditions that would make it difficult for our shipowner to come into an unfavourable position today. I would also point out that the age of the Jadrolinia ships is at an invisible level and many boaters who have received a private concession have a much younger ship than the Adriatic. Just so that all the Croatian public knows that we islanders follow what is happening from Istria to Dubrovnik, in what circumstances sailors sail and what conditions ships have. We want to, and I would also like to point out that when there is an opportunity by voting the budget or the rebalancing that all this concern for the islanders that were shown yesterday, and there will be today, to be... just that the islanders have faster and more frequent connections with better and more comfortable ships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For prices to be as they are proposed by this Law because they are all modern and modern and developed countries in the world that have in their composition islands and made. Today on the island isn't as hard to live as it was yesterday. It is precisely thanks to the rapid integration of the north and south of the Croatian state, economic development, and we need to take this small step so that both the high-speed lines and the shipping lines and the ferry lines are actually just a continuation of road transport. And let this Parliament take any step and even the slightest step in privatising any, especially Jadrolinier companies, because today I think no company will be able to replace Jadrolini. Many captains who came as foreigners or had yachts and sailed to the Croatian Adriatic would not be able to manage as our captains and sailors in view of the development of the waterfront as it is so far. The honor of exceptions and new ports and the right requirement is to extend safe ports today, upgrade, edit and not look for locations on new ports and new bays in order to protect the environment and not allow further devastation of the Croatian coast. So I will support this Law because it strives for modern solutions. Because the Island Council with 3 abstentions also supported this regulation, and the islanders are in it and know best how fast integration works.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56401	Thank you. We have three replicas. First, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56402	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to replicate my colleague Peronji for the reason he only calls for the conclusions of the island council. It is necessary to say that, unfortunately, we voted partyly in the Eastern Council, not that the interests are islandised and that is the result of party work. At the same time, Mare Nostrum, an association of Croatian employers, Croatian experts, Croatian businessmen who also said "yes" to the Law, has made it clear: "Protect the interests of the economy and determine the priority concession, and determine the priority concession because the existing shipowners have proved how responsible they are to the islanders and how secure they are in connecting the island and the mainland". And our citizens, and our tourists and our islanders. And that's what you should also mention. And there's something else that's important. Croatian sailors joined the unions also sent a message: "We are responsible, we know our trade, we have learned, we do not flee from the obligations of this trade and we are responsible for the safety of passengers". And we can be proud of their work, but they also said "we want a priority concession". In this Croatian Assembly, all clubs said, a reward for this security and responsibility to the business priority concession. Only the island council didn't say that. It's the only island. For what? Political work. Well, knowing you as a person, I'm sure you'll think a lot about it when it comes to the amendment to the priority concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56403	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56404	It is most important to point out that this Law has just been passed and is being adopted for the sake of the island and the development of the economy. But the islanders are first of all, and then all the other associations are, and this law is just giving a guarantee to the strongest and most powerful sailor with the strongest navy that he will just win in the concession contest that will be announced in the law. And that's the guarantee that we're finally moving on. And one more thing I'd say, despite the favoring of each line, we should have accounting and financial bookkeeping, that we know exactly how much is spent, how much is spent, so we can refresh the fleet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56405	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56406	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I would like to replicate to a respected colleague, Peronji, who, giving the reasons set out in this bill, said that this law will significantly improve the activity of maritime transport, significantly improve the quality of life on the islands. And in that part, I have a completely different opinion. So, this Law essentially liberalises maritime transport completely and under this Act, no respect for the amendments that we have proposed to improve the transport link between the island and the mainland and each other will be respected. Even more is the danger of getting involved in the maritime transport of companies, or shipowners who are not up to the job, making it significantly worse. In addition, the national boaters of Jadrolini, then extremely high-quality Rape navigation and 2,000 seamen employed on the team, in these companies. A thousand 800 in Jadrolinia and about two hundred in other companies. So their jobs come into question by implementing the law. This Law also does not speak of an increase in transport standards. So, like, let's say that the back line on some island goes in 24 hours. Then about free transport to smaller islands that we stand for. That is, to fully implement the rights of the islanders under the Island Law. And then in one part of it, you told your colleague Peronja that Jadrolini was created, to paraphrasise a little bit, at the abduction, so by nationalizing the fleet after World War II. That's completely incorrect. Jadrolinija was created on March, expertise and the work of valuable people of this region, valuable sailors and on the tradition of carrying out maritime transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56407	Replica reply, distinguished representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56408	The conditions for granting concessions to Article 28, complete and amended by the Croatian Government, say that this is a guarantee for safer, better quality and better transport and cannot happen to some shipowner, and we all know that we are not in a sea that the shipowner can get a concession for certain and how it works. It's just, I repeat, "Jadrolinia" that employs sailors who have been taken from ships don't say what I didn't say. I didn't mention the kidnapping. I didn't mention the kidnapping. I said '46. It was disfigured were Carić and Gamulin and Radovani, Matošići, the sailors who were destroyed, and you need it today and we want to give the opportunity to privatise either "Jadrolinia" what and the way we think is the best way to protect life on the island and the island, no other seamen or fleets or employees, because only the islanders went to the world the most and now they're the most evicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56409	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56410	A colleague of Peronja wanted to give a valuable judgment on this Law or qualification and said that this Law too would be a reason to live even better on the islands than it has ever been. I'm afraid a court of such value doesn't stand, namely when we talk about whether the islands are better or worse, which determines whether it's better or worse? I believe that if these are people, there are fewer people living on the islands and it is not correct to say that the equalization of the conditions on islands and on land has occurred and that this law will bring something into that sense. Of course you'd have to live on an island and work on an island, if you don't work on an island but live on land, and stick to living on an island then it's something else. Living on an island means being able to start a family, work, practice, and live on the island. Of course, at this point things don't stand, so the islanders have far more demands and, you know, don't talk when you don't want to help someone, when someone isn't fully capable of some part of our country fighting on their own and dealing with the overall situation either in the family or in the economy, then it's not how much you gave them to help him but whether you helped him or whether he was stronger, stronger and able to act on his own. What you give, and you don't see the result, it doesn't matter at all, so let's look at the final event, and it's called population policy on our islands. She is threatened, and to bring her into the right order, we must protect the values on which she must be built. One of these values, even as far as the island is concerned, is at this point do not privatize "Jadrolini", do not question the small, but for the island's very important place of trust they have. Trust may even be a key word regarding this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56411	Replica reply, distinguished representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56412	The islands are truly better quality and better alive which confirms the number of transported passengers and vehicles in 2004 that have just enabled the construction of new ports, the purchase of new ferrys, new olive groves, new plantations of vine vines, a new number of non-mechanical residents on Brač and Hvar and Korčula, smaller islands that had fewer inhabitants do not have and talk about the traffic of real estate, the construction of new houses and hotels on the Croatian islands, thanks to the very laws that we have begun to change as the public is economic and is seeking and harmonising, and therefore this Law gives security that the islanders live even better and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56413	Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56414	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome our guests to the gallery that has been here with great interest, and they have been following this debate closely for two days now. Of particular importance for a country such as Croatia, a country of thousands of islands and developed tourism is certainly the establishment of a public coastal transport system. A good and regular connection between the island and the mainland and the island is a basic prerequisite for the development of the island as well as for creating better living conditions for islanders. Quality public transport promotes the economic development of the island, affects the standard of life of the island and is a basic prerequisite for the development of tourism on the islands. According to the importance of the lines on which public transport is carried out, they are classified on state lines, county and interstate lines and local lines. The state lines are the lines connecting the coast with the populated islands and islands as well as along the coastal line, and are determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the ministry. Since state lines are of particular importance to life, the government provides quality maintenance means to encourage the construction of ships and subsidized lines that are of particular importance and are not profitable. There are 46 state lines of which are 14 high-speed and 32 ferry lines or classic lines. On the lines that exist today, a total of 11 boaters are certainly the most significant state shipowner "Jadrolini". Of the 46 state lines "Jadrolini" drives 34, 7 high-speed and 27 ferry and classic lines. From year to year, the number of tourists is increasing, as is the number of passengers and vehicles carried by Jadrolini. In 2003, 7 million 773 thousand and 80 passengers and 2 million 89 thousand 846 vehicles were transported, and already in 2005, the number of passengers transported was 8 million 518 thousand 815 passengers or 10% more, and the number of vehicles transported was 2 million 211 thousand 873 or 6% more than in 2003. The introduction of the market conditions of business as provided for in this Act will improve competition on the market, and thus the quality of services. A lot has been said about this in public lately, and also in this assembly that the application of the law will endanger the business of "Jadrolinia" and therefore put into question the jobs of our seamen. Jadrolini has a thousand 850 employees, and that number is increasing to 2,000 250 in the season. That this government takes great care of jobs and the fate of Jadrolinija also tells the fact that despite the increase in traffic of 15% of governments in 2005, it allocated 15% more funds from the state budget than it was in 2003. In 2003, the government allocated 289 million kuna through support and subsidy, and this government allocated 320 million kuna in 2005, which is 30 million kuna or 15% higher. For the purposes of our largest shipman, two new ships have been ordered and three more are planned, which is also encouraged by the resources of the state budget. It should be noted that these ships are operated in domestic shipyards, and this also ensures the work of these workers. I believe that the final draft of the law protects domestic shipmen because the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union does not oblige us to open a cabotage for foreign ships. And it is precisely this time that is most suitable for strengthening domestic boaters, i.e. Jadrolinia and Jadrolini should not fear the competition of other small domestic shipmen. I also believe that the involvement in the European Union and the opening of the market will not endanger the business of Jadrolinija. In fact, the state needs to take care of our biggest shipman. We often say that Croatia has the best sailors and sea captains. We have good shipyards and there's no reason that Jadrolini couldn't be competitive on a foreign market by building modern ships and ferrys like Mariana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56415	Thank you. Replications. Dear Representative Slavko Linic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56416	So I have to replicate to my colleague Ahel. I see it's her priority to praise the government instead of taking care of its sailors. You know, these laws protect the seamen and the Jadrolini. Let me show you that this is not the case, and that as Parliamentarians, we give up our desire to protect them because we have an interest in government policy. You see, the County of Split has awarded concessions to a ship that has an inadequate ship and a ship that has not been provided by the replacement ship under contract. Although the law requires the termination and confiscation of concessions is not done. All three of them are sitting here. The government didn't do it. She didn't protect the sailors, she didn't protect the safety of the islanders, and she didn't act on the contract where it had to be realized. So you're not having fun. Individuals from this government have made Lonchar not compete. He's been harming the seamen of Jadrolinia. Who guarantees you that tomorrow at the Lonchar contest will not stand for concession because one of these three gentlemen will forbid him from doing so. And he has to listen because he's a clerk at a state firm. He has to listen because that's the first time he's listened to it. But Mrs. Ahel, you make it possible, because the laws don't apply. The laws are one thing and we are here to ensure the safety of these seamen by law, as they have shown by their work that they care about the safety of the islanders and that they care about Croatian companies and not to miss that individuals conduct our laws as they wish and threaten employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56417	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56418	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Linic, I fully agree with you that we here need to take care of the protection of the seafarers and I understand when you talk about standing up for a priority concession, but you are in your government in 2003 when the concession contracts for shipowners doing so were due to expire or extend concessions or call for a change of law. So why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56419	Second Replicated representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56420	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, you'd be replicating an esteemed colleague. In fact, she devoted a good part of her exposure to the construction of new ships precisely for the state shipowner Jadrolini in our shipyards, which is certainly commendable. And we certainly support that. However, there is now one question. A state shipman with state support, so Jadrolini builds ships, rebuilds the fleet, and now we come into a situation that by concessioning these lines is possible, so it's possible that Jadrolini will be left without these lines and its ships will be left without a line. So they're left without a line. Well, I'm rhetorically asking the question of who those ships are being built for. I don't want to give my imagination a blowout or speculate with it, but simply for whom we build ships or for whom, with the state's support, the state builds new ships for the state's ship ship and, at the same time, to put these state lines on a public tender by concessioning someone else, possibly. Then these ships are becoming very easy prey and prey for possibly some speculators.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56421	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56422	Thank you, Mr. President. Well certainly, counterpart Antesic should commend this government for investing so much in the construction of new ships and also Jadrolinija is empowered by new ships. Surely it will be more competitive on the domestic market, and I see no reason why it should be afraid of some small boaters who will appear on the market with an old ship or will not have any reason to believe that the law provides for a replacement ship. However, I think this investment will only increase the quality of transport on our Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56423	Third replica, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56424	With all due respect, colleague Ahel, but you're not thinking logically. You say the need for new lines will increase, so because there will be new lines we're placing existing lines on the market. So if there's going to be new lines, put those new lines on the market. You realize that the number of lines is shrinking and we need to protect private shipmen, then this would be a logical solution. And this is what's illogical. That's just absurd. The second thing, you say competition will lead to improved service quality. So look at the improvement in service quality on the Split-Supetar line... It's breaking the ship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It puts the lives of the passengers at risk. So is this the quality of service that you will improve? So if that's how you're going to improve service quality, so don't improve it, don't do it, you'll do more good. Third, you say you don't need to be afraid of competition. Well, maybe not in fair terms, but how did he get that concession, Buljubasic? How did he get it? Why didn't Jadrolini compete? Well, because he was told to the director, you can't compete. And if he had competed, they would have replaced him. They would have replaced him. Well, you wouldn't be the first or the last. So forgive me, but you have replaced Virag. The man has become a doctor, has he become a member of the Royal Royal Association of Surgeons. It celebrates Croatia's medicine in the world. The first thing you did was replace it. It's not the first one, it's not the last one. It's not the first one, it's not the last one. What are we surprised at?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56425	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56426	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, my colleague Stazic, I did not speak at all in my debate about the need, that new lines would be needed. Besides, as far as San Marino is concerned, I'm not saying it's good competition, and the exception doesn't make the rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56427	And the third replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56428	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Irena rightly said that the purchase of ships, the new ferry of Jadrolinia by domestic shipyards is a good and correct route. Unfortunately, taking into account the fact that the state is investing nearly 350 million kuna means that, in addition to subsidies, most of it clearly belongs to the largest shipowner. If it is the concessions that are primarily national, then a very simple question is asked: so why and is it even possible that a boatman who will order a 20, 30 million-euro boat in Spain in the spring for 20, 30 million-year-olds, is it even moral, is it even normal, should we, as a society, ask ourselves whether it is even possible for such a boatman to get a boat abroad practically for Croatian taxpayers' money whether he can and may get a concession? Should there be a particular equation in this Law? Yes, gentlemen. You'll have a concession. I think that Jadrolini should keep those positions that it has but she and the others only provided that it supplies and manufactures Croatian ships in Croatian shipyards because we can because we know it because we are competitive at the price and there is no reason why we cannot promote a better life on the islands and are constantly pooring the substance of this country. We're giving money to make Spanish. To make Koreans. Well, the state can't give out of nowhere. We take the state, we don't give it, and we don't strengthen its contents, its economy. And every year the needs are getting bigger. And finally the result is what I said. There's no going back to life on the islands. Population policy goes with a downward path, not an increase in population. So the result of all these efforts and investments is negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56429	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56430	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Mark's law clearly defines the conditions under which concessions can be obtained. In addition, if the state allocates so much money to restore the fleet, they will surely see to it that these ships are not tied to the dock.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56431	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Jozo Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56432	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, Captain Babic and distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs! As the State Secretary pointed out last night's opening statement to this Bill's proposal to create assumptions for the even better and faster development of the island and for, for the return of the population and retention of the island's population because it is one of the priorities of this government. Therefore, investment in maintaining good ties, good lines with our islands, is extremely important. This is one of the strategic goals of this government and the state of Croatia. We all agree with this because investment in linking the island with the mainland is as important as building a land highway network. This bill should replace the three laws still in force, which is the Law on public transport, line coastal maritime transport, the Law on Jadrolinia and the Law on Islands. Of course, this is also an opportunity to remove certain ambiguities and certain doubts that have arisen in the application of this Law. One of the papers in the final draft law is the safe establishment of the agency as an expert operating body that would run all the issues related to the call and execution of concession tenders on individual lines. The Agency should monitor and control, and control this by noting any obligations that the concessionary is obliged to fulfil under the concession agreement. But the biggest newspaper of course in this Act is certainly the introduction of a market principle through a concession system for each shipping line based on a public tender. And we all agree that respected colleagues and fellow MPs that it is important and necessary to better connect the island to the mainland and that it is a strategic interest. And that the status of domestic shipmen must be taken care of. I also welcome the representatives of our biggest shipman up at the gallery. It's just a question, and that's the whole question of how to do it. The government and we in HDZ also believe that this proposal is just the right foundation for how it is achieved. To achieve on the one hand and a better quality of connecting our islands to the mainland, and on the other hand, we need to train domestic boaters for a single market match that is inevitable sooner or later. Because we all allegedly want to, at least that's how we all declare our entry into the European Community, but surely we won't be able to do it in this way and by treating the market and even to certain boaters. I think that these fears are unwarranted that the introduction of a market principle would undermine the quality of services achieved and reach the level of passenger safety in passenger transport. I believe this bill will allow the exact opposite. Only the market, and I say again, is certainly not enough to improve the passenger transport system. The state will continue to be present in the area both through further investment and probably through control mechanisms because it is certain that a large number of these lines that are listed in 46, most of them are inert. I think six lines are just rentable from all lines. And this bill of law has obviously drawn great attention to the public and to the professional public and particularly interested shipmen. That's where I primarily think of Jadrolini. There are certain doubts and fears that because of the memories of certain negativitys that are, as well as the war circumstances that were in the '90s when some significant shipmen disappeared from our market. But it's also certain that the Adriatic Sea either now or for some future time will act in other circumstances, not in this way that it's worked so far. And I think it's during this period of five years that it's a good time to gradually restructure Jadrolinija, to restructure and train for market competition that will sooner or later come. From these as I read this bill, it is obvious that we need to find some mechanisms, which are precisely some market elements that will encourage domestic boaters and primarily "Jadrolinia" to do more and to qualify for this emerging competition that is certainly inevitable over time. So certain instruments that are this law, i.e. the proposal because they are installed as a replacement ship, gradual concessioning, length of season, etc. I think it's enough protection mechanisms that obviously go hand in hand to domestic boaters, primarily Jadrolini. And fear of competition from foreign ships I think it was removed by one provision in the Law of the Sea, where it is firmly defined that the ship's ship must sail under the Croatian flag, must employ the Croatian crew and that the company must be registered in the Republic of Croatia, of course here and pay taxes. And I think we all agree that we have to take care of the "Jadrolinia" which has great merit in maintaining the passenger transport system and which is responsible for both safety at sea and passengers. And we need to give the Jadrolini great credit in the Homeland War itself. Because Jadrolini is with its lines we can say was on the front line of the front line of the front line. All we can think of is connecting the island of Pag to Prizno, unspecified ships. I've had a chance to see, but these ships have been constantly sailing and maintaining that only link between the south and the north. And all our islanders are emotionally bound to our national shipman Jadrolini. Many of them got their first job right on the sailline ships. Jadrolini must have contributed significantly to both the education and the creation of the naval staff we are proud of. Because our captains are recognized and appreciated on the market, on the world market. But in addition to the commendation and the positive for being done in reflecting the ship's transport system, I'm going to say something with which our islanders, I mean the islanders of Sibenik, are certainly not, nor can they be satisfied. There are more inhabited islands in the Sibenik aquarium. I will list them: Žirje, Kapre, Kornati, Prvic, Zlarin and the island of Rapanj across from the boat. However, permanent shipping of passengers is being held for the island of Žirje, Kapre, Zlarin and Prvic with two old ships "Ilock" and "Tiat". The age of these ships is over 55 years, while the average age of the ships "Jadrolinia" is 26 and a half years. I don't think we need any further comment here. It's unacceptable that these old dowry ships at all on our sea. Is this supposed to be a tourist postcard from the Adriatic? Can we introduce ourselves to that as a tourist destination? And I think Sibenik and Sibenik County have all the preconditions for outstanding, quality and rapid tourism development. With such ships, we will find it difficult to achieve the objectives set by this law, which is to revive the democratic recovery and economic recovery of the economy. How are we ever going to get our life back on our island? Here, for example. the island of Žirje which has a natural precondition for economic recovery. It has a beautiful coast, a pleasant mild climate, and a fertile karst field, and it is 11 and a half miles away from Sibenik. Two ships sail for this island of Žirje, i.e. There is one ship with, i.e. two lines, morning and afternoon, and the journey to Žirje takes two hours. Two hours, what about normal good connection that trip should take half an hour. And that same jury, just for a reminder, has made an extremely significant contribution to the Homeland War. In the September war of '91. In the years, the Zir cannons have just stopped Mladic and his tanks on the Sibenik Bridge. And thanks to that same jury, we freed not only the bridge, we freed the Sibenik hinterland and captured a large portion of the Yugoslav enemy Navy fleet, because they couldn't sail from the Sibenik Canal. And it was also the foundation of foundation and of Croatia. Those Croatian Navy ships. And I'll be very critical. And after those 15 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56433	Thank you very much, thank you very much. You'll have a 7-replication opportunity. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56434	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's colleague Topic, you've warmly welcomed the representatives of the ship's largest shipman, our national shipman, the gentleman from Jadrolinia. You've welcomed them nicely, if you support this bill. It's a lovely greeting and thanks to you for giving them the confession yourself, to what they did in the war. And you know it was our only time. It went through the Jadrolinia. Not through "Sam Marine" and through this "Genoves" which is faster as a Croatian company registered in Rijeka. Thus, gentlemen, the full relationship of this authority to the islanders is revealed. One thing's said, the other's done. The maritime code was claimed to have been adopted in accordance with the unions. It wasn't like that. See, these are the gentlemen upstairs you say hello to, which you don't want to hear. They tell you that the position of Jadrolinia is seriously compromised by this law. And that's right. But you don't want to hear about it. It's a nice greeting. And somehow they serve you as a coin to which you will, as soon as you greet yourself in some way, confirm that it is a good law. You speak further of an illogicality, something that this law cannot satisfy, by the very concept as you see it, and ultimately as it is truly complex. You pointed out that this is one of the government's priorities. How many of these governments have priorities. Therefore, there is clearly no priority. Whatever this is all about is always about priority. And on the other hand, you're talking about the necessity of market principles. There are so many market principles here that are not necessary. Nor is this legislative proposal anything necessary that we must do in negotiations and in amending the laws on the accession of Europe. This is witnessed by Italy, which has its own national shipping company and there is no market in that liner, along line traffic along the coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56435	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56436	Dear fellow MPs, I am truly sincere and without any pathetic greetings from the representatives of "Jadrolinia" and certainly that this, myself, and I believe that all colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community are very sensitive to workers' rights and to job protection. But, gentlemen, are we just going to monopolies, by not imposing certain measures that force a national shipman as well? Here's an example of why I'm going to say it. If "Jadrolini" on one line gets a concession at five or ten years, watch out for this "Jadrolini" will behave very differently if he knows that after ten years, the concession expires and that he does not have to and automatically win, that I believe he will certainly improve his business and take care of some details and please the passengers rather than if he knows that she has a monopoly that for the next 20, 50 or 100 years that no one can compete with her at all, on the one hand. And by the way, I don't see what's the illogicality of an esteemed colleague, I don't know if you need to continue to answer, because you just left the assembly. I don't see the illogicality if I pointed out that the top priority of this government is, among other things, the resuscitation of our islands and the return of life to our islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56437	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56438	Thank you very much. At the end of his presentation, Mr. Topic revised the initial view that the market opening would solve all the problems and would simply give one of the new quality elements within this law, because in the second part he made it very clear that the situation in the Sibenik-Knin County is in terms of connection and in terms of connection with these very less or less populated islands at such a level that it simply doesn't work or works with such resources that are unattractive to the time in which we live. That is exactly what Mr. Topic removes all the doubts that should exist that this law will allow these and such islands to be better, better quality and faster connected to the mainland, which is not the case today. Why? Well, it's simply because he doesn't intend to solve it. In fact, you yourself said that he would replace a whole series of laws, including the "Jadrolinia" Act, means in article 69 there is an open possibility of privatisation, and I hold it, I hold it, the HSS club holds it, that there can be no privatisation without a special Law on the privatisation of "Jadrolinia" if it is necessary at all, if it is necessary at all. Because why should Croatia take precedence over everything? So we'll ask ourselves again in five years as we ask for banks today, so you see says we privatized everything, it's all in the hands of strangers. Today is the time to stand up to such seemingly simple article 69 opens up a small possibility, no one will benefit. And who says they won't? So let's be serious today so that tomorrow we don't shed crocodile tears like we do in nature that every time we do something bad, in five years we meet and we all pour crocodile tears together, we fight in the forehead and say, "Is it possible that we brought it in?" It's possible. And the banks we've made, there's nobody else. I'm not talking to these guys, I'm talking to them. I'm talking to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56439	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56440	Dear colleague Markov, I would just like to remind you of a fact that you are certainly well-known for being a member of the government or being a representative of the previous government, so five years ago there was a tender for a single speedboat from Žirje – Kaprije – Sibenik and the competition for that concession did not appear "Jadrolini". No "Jadrolini" came forward, a private entrepreneur, a private shipowner who has a smaller ship, but the fact that this private entrepreneur contributed significantly to the quality of connecting the islands of Žirje and Kapri and Sibenik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56441	Third replica, honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56442	E co-worker Topicu welcomes the Adriatic Seamen at the gallery, touching. You've really moved me. See, you don't have to greet them. They'll survive without your greetings. But if you vote for this bill, then it won't survive. A lot of these people upstairs at the gallery are gonna lose their jobs. Their families will be left without... /The speaker turned off, so they will be reactivated./... The same thing will happen to them by their colleague Topic... /The speaker turned off, then turned back on./...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56443	What happened?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56444	I'm off topside. They're going to get what's going to happen to them...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56445	Unawareness.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56446	They will see what happened to the seamen of Croatia Line, first sold lines, then sold ships then the company in bankruptcy. Where are they today? They live on welfare. That's what you do to these people. Don't say hello to them, but get up and tell me what I'm cooking for you, Topic. I'll vote for you to be out of a job. Tell them that, don't say hello. You tell them competition is inevitable, it's not inevitable, don't paint them. It is not inevitable on the state line of the coastal, long-term lines is not inevitable. How in Italy can you do without it? How can he be a state shipman in Italy? Why can't we go to Croatia? And then you say in the end, "Jadrolinia" will behave responsibly if there is no monopoly, if he knows that in 10 years, competition will come. Well, that's what we're asking for with our amendment, so he knows he's 10 years old. I expect you to vote for our amendment, because that's what you just said and that's what we're proposing. Vote for our amendment, allow these people to keep their jobs for 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56447	Replica response, respected representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56448	Dear fellow Stazic, I don't know, there's really nothing to replicate here because you keep repeating the same story. You're repeating the story of Croatia Line. "Croatia Line" is a real story that would need a wider and deeper debate, as it has occurred, in which circumstances etc. But be assured that without any coercion, but in my debate, I have made it very clear that control mechanisms must be present, that the state cannot withdraw from all of this and that we cannot immediately leave Jadrolini to the market today and that there is one transitional period, that there is a time when "Jadrolini" will certainly be a significant shipowner not only in Croatia but I believe in the Adriatic, because our sailors and our sailors are extremely capable people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56449	Fourth replica, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56450	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Topic told the truth. First where Jadrolini will lose the lines is the Sibenik area. Two 50-year-old ships. Jadrolini can't compete with newer ships. Will with prices, questionable. Maybe it's an interest in Sibenik, islands in the Sibenik archipelago. Maybe that's not why they should be convicted. But if it's the State Shipman's fault. It's not. It's the government's fault that didn't invest in a state shipman. We've been investing in the last five years, and there's a proposal for a priority concession that says, "We're aware that there are shortcomings, that we have old fleets, that citizens and islanders are not very happy with the speed of 8 or 9 knots." But now there's a program by which we can invest in a state shipman. Let's make a priority concession. In 10 years, we'll have new ships. We'll give and be responsible for the islanders. That shows politics in the last five years. So, the patience I'm convinced we're going to have from the islanders, not the taking of lines, not the leaving of the seamen without a job. And he'll certainly stay on these lines in Sibenik, he'll stay, he'll stay. And that's why there's no priority concession, and that's what we're talking about. Let's not act like one. They don't deserve that, seamen. But that's not what politicians say, that's what the profession, the Croatian economy and the maritime unions tell you. Who are we listening to? We don't want to hear anyone just trying to say that. Give us time by concession, not by that, they'll worry about the government. So what kind of people are we in the Parliament that we won't understand is that we provide regulations to ensure that the sailors are cared for. Worried about asking the government to invest in the boaters and then not taking away because I don't know which line and jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56451	Replica response, respected representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56452	Yes, this last remark is in place, that the government is investing in the shipowner and I agree with that. And this government obviously invests in a boatman. Because in the last two years, it's far more invested in the restoration of the fleet than it was before. And among other things, Mr. Linic, your great concern for Sibenik, the Sibenik Islands and the integration of the Sibenik Islands proved to be extremely effective in 2000 when you came to power, then there was a shipping line, an international shipping line connecting Sibenik with Ancon. By the time your government arrives, the coalition authorities have abolished the line. Unfortunately, it has not been restored today, and I think it is necessary to do something about it, to have a seasonal shipping line between the Italian coast and Sibenik because Sibenik is an increasingly significant tourist destination. And such a single line will certainly contribute significantly to the development of tourism in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56453	Next replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56454	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'd just read a fraction from the explanation of the bill that the government put in the procedure when talking about the national ship's Jadrolini. So literally: "Thanks to the very strength of this national carrier and its organisation through a single system, great flexibility is ensured at all times to transport needs as well as ship replacements in the Adriatic water areas." Well, look, I just don't understand something. This to me belongs to the theory of absurdity. On the one hand, we say, "I sign all this stuff here from personal experience, from what I know about Jadrolinia, about the quality she owns and how she drives." So why, then, why don't we, as the owner of this shipowner, give him 10 more years of time, so priority for him to prepare himself for a normal game of competition that must come and we fully agree with. Through a priority concession to prepare, do not throw it into the plight of an international business that is eager to get into this area because we as a country are very attractive and are just subject to such entrepreneurs. But now we're going to the full game of the market, so we're going to the concessioning of these lines. And what's going to happen? When my lines are concentrated, I'm talking about state lines, then that company is worth nothing. It's simply inadmissible. Or in our discussions, I see we speak the same. We're saying the same thing. We're to protect that state shipman, we're to fix this, but in the bill, we leave the possibility, "that's what they'll do, my mother, that's what I guarantee my mother that's how it's gonna be."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56455	Okay, thank you. Replica response, respected representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56456	Dear fellow Antešić, you want to eliminate the market and that competitive spirit, competition, in every form and in the least form. So you yourself yesterday, very picturesque, literally very picturesquely, showed that this very Rape navigation is one company that is in some way competitive with Jadrolini. And thanks to the very existence in that area of the market, you proved it, dear God. That you have an extremely good connection with the mainland and that your ships are new, that the workers are restored and that the workers receive paid neatly and that there is no fear for jobs. And not only that, but simply, you've even vividly shown how you, in impossible circumstances and possibilities, sail towards land and maintain these lines. Therefore, and in my debate, I particularly stressed that the state there is and certain national regulatory mechanisms there must be. But no one's talking about the privatisation of Jadrolinia in at least five, six years, and then they'll see each other later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56457	The next replica, respected Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56458	Mr. President, it is known that I rarely replicate but this time I had to. For the simple reason, counterpart Topic said "Jadrolini mora". Not what Jadrolini has to do, but the question is, what do we have to do? We've got some loose ends in front of us, and I'd like to tell the piece of the bill. In accordance with the Constitution, he set out which are good for the Republic of Croatia, he was also required by law to determine how well the interests of the Republic of Croatia must be protected, how it must be managed and realized. In this Law, Article 3 states: "the public transport activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia". How the interest of the Republic of Croatia will be achieved in this law is not resolved at all. This Decision is addressed to market relations and, at the same time, in the transitional and final provisions of this Act, the provisions of Articles 3, 6 and 19 of this Act are deleted. The "Jadrolinia" Act, which speaks of a special status in "Jadrolinia" as through the law of the legion of specialis as the holder of public powers to be protected, achieves the public interest of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to this public transport. If neither the market nor any other relationship can be established in that area and cannot be subsidized by the State. This Law in this respect is unarranged, it is a sham law and therefore should be missed in third reading and completed in order to protect the state interest of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the transport and connection of our coast to the islands between the islands that are inhabited in this respect. I can understand the need for market relations in certain areas where competition exists, where there is no market profitability, etc., but what will happen to those islands where there is no cost, where the state will not have enough money to secure the economic price of transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56459	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56460	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm reacting here to my colleagues and colleagues because we started to spin around in circles and exhibitions and replicas. Every honor of these last few SDP counterparts is very specific, very clear, but it is not so throughout the morning, and also yesterday. Look, colleagues and colleagues, at least we agree on one thing. We here keep mentioning the assistance of the islanders, the concern of the seamen, the safety of the islanders, the responsibility to the islanders, the government is isolated, the government is very isolated. What a demagogy. Every country that has islands has singled out, singled out, and will stand out. It's a minimum of minimum, it's nothing new, nothing big, nothing noble, so we want to preserve life on islands, so we want to preserve the natural, cultural, historical heritage of our islands, so we want to create a basis for even better and better tourism development, etc., etc., etc. So let's let it go on the side, please, let's concentrate on the consequences and possible consequences of adopting this law, and I'll talk about it a little later, and I'm really asking you to try to save time and concentrate on exactly what should be the subject of our conversation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56461	Replica response, respected representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56462	... but what you said is that every country invests and will invest in the islands because it's in itself natural. [[Specially enabled.]] They cannot agree with that, at least we, or our islanders, are very well aware of it and they have experienced it on their own skin because it has been invested, that the previous state of Yugoslavia has invested and that it has taken care of islands and boat lines as this Croatian government is particularly concerned about this, then it would certainly not have happened that our islands are in the desert, that our islands are not inhabited and that the population from these islands has moved out. However, the previous government made the most beautiful islands of the fortress, a military fortress, and made camps of the same islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56463	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56464	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of the Sea. Just now, Rose and I were commenting that the only ones left in the assembly were the ones from the island and some other sympathisers. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56465	And we're from Charengrad.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56466	So much for how much with all these magnificent words about the importance of the island is actually held to this topic. So, the Lineship Transport Act and the Adriatic Act were passed back in '96, '97. to ensure a smooth life on the islands and a smooth boat line. I would ask you nicely if, when we discuss this Law and its effects, we would not see trees from the forest or vice versa. There are 100,000 islanders living on the islands, and their interest here is primary. That's the first one. Second, the fact is that the islands of 1910 had the largest population. Everything that happened after that was actually completely wrong experiments with the island economy and ship transport. In 1910, when we talk about the huge investments on the islands, the ports were actually made, but at that time there was actually no state boater, only privates were driving, and the islands were full. Why? He's doing a tremendously strong private initiative. But that's the pace to pass, back to the condition that is today, and the situation is that no one would actually dare go into major experiments with shipping simply because we don't know how this experiment can end. Some of them tried that experiment, tried Italy that privatized Tirenia and then put it back into state hands. That in itself says that the whole story that suggests that it would be good today, to privatize Jadrolini tomorrow is actually completely guilty because we're rediscovering hot water again. When we talk about entering private capital, or private sector, it can be realised in two ways. One is the privatisation of Jadrolinija, which is completely pointless in my court and the other is the entry of private competition. No one's stopping it today under existing laws. Again, what is competition? Is it the competition that several shipowners are competing for the same line as the non-profit which the state subsidized or the competition is that on the same line along the state line there is also a county line as a supplement line so if someone wants to drive and thinks it is favourable, and it can be favourable because Jadrolinija usually drives with a new ferry of a few million euros, and this one buys half a million euros used to drive, so why not drive? So we have two completely extreme examples in the Mediterranean. One is Greece with 10 private boaters, no state boater, no preferred boater, but that's why each of them 10 has their own two lines to any island. The island of Paros of Piraje is located as Lastovo from Split has 20 lines a day, has 16 thousand inhabitants like the island of Brac, only Lastovo can dream of it, has two lines a day and a point, but there is no foreign competition, there is no one to enter the competition of domestic boaters. We have Italy that's made the system so careful again that a stranger can't actually get in. You have a Tyrenia that covers everything that's more or less worth it and you have others who break into the supplemental lines either in the season or outside the season as reinforcements on those lines where Tyrenia can't actually get involved. And now we are bringing about a key question, is all this necessary for the European Union's regulation? The only agreement we have in place is a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and what does it say? Article 51 states that provisions on the establishment of foreign companies, so that foreigners register their branch office as a Croatian firm, etc. says those provisions will not apply to the operation of shipping. So, if we stick to the SAA, it won't get in or it has to be declared in this law in one of the articles that says that if none of the domestics show any interest, then we're going to introduce a foreign shipman. Furthermore, Article 52 states that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement does not prevent Croatia from applying specific rules concerning branches of companies from the Union either for caution or for legal or technical differences, which means that if a foreign shipowner accidentally enters, we can always remove it from the competition if we stick to the agreement. But if we were to stick to the agreement then it wouldn't stand as a possibility in this law at all. Furthermore, says Article 54(3), this is most interesting and concerns one of the articles in this law, which says that a concessionary can have in the crew Croatian citizens or EU citizens. It is not prescribed that they must speak Croatian. It is mentioned somewhere that the official language on board is Croatian, which means they communicate with Croatian passengers but with the captain perhaps in English. Article 54(3) explicitly states that citizens of the European Union, that is, Article 54. Stabilisation and Association Agreements so that citizens of the European Union can enter Croatia temporarily in a higher position in order to establish a branch but must not engage in the provision of services. If shipping on line traffic isn't providing services, I don't know what it is. Therefore, and this figure that we are doing European norms and requirements must be introduced here by foreign shipmen or by foreign sailors on concentrated ships does not actually stand because this is not what the Stabilisation and Association Agreement obliges us to do. So now we're going back to what's really important, and that's who here can even be competition and in what conditions. Who can be the competition? Could it be the Rab sailing, Lošinj sailing, Mediterranean sailing and fishing cooperative... They can be competition but only on the lines they're already concessioned on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, the companies formed by the will of these municipalities in the 1970s and were then privatized and held there only one line for that one island. They can't compete on all the other lines. Can all those who are... After 2000 Alpex,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sen Marina,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ponds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think so either. They're too small. They actually started their development only in 2000. If so... We liberalize the market for us can enter the party if we don't stick to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but we're in trouble here now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since this government has already shown an incredible tendency to ignore the Stabilisation and Association Agreement when it is in the Croatian interest, for example in sugar or, for example, in the case of seamless pipes from Sisak or in a number of other examples, who guarantees us that despite the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it gives us the right to prevent foreign companies from entering the shipping market that this law will not actually happen. So, I repeat. We don't have to give them everything they've been given. The concession agreement for the shipowner must therefore be such as to ensure the safe operation of the ship's transport, but in what way. In a way that we have state lines legally guaranteed where the state guarantees the standard, where it usually drives Jadrolini or some of those that have so far proven themselves on these state lines and new ones can always enter the additional lines or county lines. The county estimates it needs another line for Old Town on Hvar or another line for Lastovo, so let it drive. If he wants to drive, let him drive. But he can't make it to the state line unless he's been through one three-year probationary internship before that. If he's satisfied in those three years then let him compete. But he can't start to say I'd drive this right now. I don't know how... I've been through it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course, you have to have domestic sailors on that ship so we don't happen to break the shipping market just by that. Let's not play with that. The Agency's headquarters to avoid these conflicts of the north and south of the Adriatic should be in Zagreb, but let the agency have regional administrations in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split and Dubrovnik because this agency will have to monitor not only the state lines but also these additional county lines, otherwise we will be put into a situation that every county within itself forms a mini agency that will oversee all of this together, and that is, you will forgive, absolutely pointless and throwing money away. Then let it be realized this way. And of course, let me conclude, for us in this situation, with this kind of privatisation model that is presented here is completely pointless and unnecessary privatisation of Jadrolinia, especially when we have experience from Italy that says almost the opposite. So, I'm asking you nicely, let's not make up hot water, let's look at what the Italians are doing, they're our closest. We can very well estimate their model here. So we have a state shipman who is the backbone of shipping, and we have additional lines on the county lines, but the state line can only be entered after a test period of at least three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56467	Thank you very much. Replica's respected representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56468	Thank you very much. Comrade Tadic, you have noticed well and have accurately seen all the possibilities of delusion. You have stated the reasons that rightly state in support of the fact that it is somewhat and incomprehensible whether the totality of this law and its intensity is to strengthen the care of islands, strengthen the state shipowner and increase the participation of domestic shipyards to keep the maximum concentration in domestic carriers. Unfortunately, we don't learn from other people's experiences, or from other people's mistakes, but we always hope that it's better to repeat it on our own, so twice we repeat the mistake, then three times our candles just get on fire and say so you see, and that wasn't such a good experience. Usually the weather is about ten years old and after that, again as I've said before, let's all agree. In this language, we have experience today such that some of our hotels on the Adriatic are not good or almost not official Croatian. It's not an official Croatian language. You heard right. The official language is someone else. And if you don't talk to that other guy, you won't have any business, you'll have to leave. Well, then, what wonders are there for such reflections as they were given both in terms of crew and language? And it has nothing to do with our obligations in the European Union, it has nothing to do with any obligations. It has nothing to do with our insufferable and insufferable ease of accepting anything else. It's just disturbing. And this law is an ideal basis to think about before it is brought into this form because in this form it is not even in the interest of Jadrolinia, but it is not in the interest of other shipmen. I'm not talking here and I don't want to create the impression that we're talking against private shipmen,... And the others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have their place. But here when there's a total, global danger of questioning that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56469	Replica response, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56470	A colleague of Markov, therefore, when it comes to the shipbuilding that you first mentioned. Well, of course the state should also encourage shipbuilding, but let it encourage domestic shipbuilding. It's a first. But a home number doesn't have to be a condition for someone to get a concession. So half of Jadrolini's ferrys were purchased outside "Tin Ujević in Greece, "Peter Hektorovic" in Scandinavia, "Ivan Zajc" in Italy. Then how can we force a private to have a home ferry? If it's quality, make sure it's on the supplemental line. But the highest quality can have "Jadrolini" with domestic ferry. And as for these terms, foreigners, foreign shipmen, foreign language. You'll forgive me, the last term has ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We weren't for him. But as it is in force I want to stick to every word, comma... if it is in the interest of the Croatian state. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's at least stick to where it is in favour of Croatia, which is in this case our shipping market. No one denies sailing in Croatia, but let them be Croatian firms. Let's go for a few years to create more Croatian companies that will improve shipping. I repeat, in 1910 it was the largest in the world... but characterizes it, with the production on the islands themselves, a tremendously intense shipbuilding and a tremendously large private initiative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a fat that drives, there is fat, but there was also a mass of other boaters, and Kozulić and others who have failed. Let's make them again. Let there be a "Jadrolini" as... But there are others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And let's not get used to subsidies. The subsidy of all shipping lines in Croatia is 280 million kuna, and only Tirana receives 190m euros annually. And where are the others? In Italy. Therefore, I will pray nicely, the subsidy cannot be a reason to ignore the needs of our islanders and our shipmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56471	Second replica, Honored Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56472	Thank you very much. What Mr. Tadic said, I would sign, if we were to exempt from the Agency's passage, almost entirely. I, of course, think that the Agency's headquarters should be on one of the islands, because that would also improve employment, etc., etc. But well, that's my opinion and it'll still be that way. However, I would like, therefore, to explain only the proponents of the existing state which literally glorifies the state of Jadrolini, so a better assessment of Jadrolini could not have been obtained from what the legislator wrote in the light of this law. Secondly, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in no way obliges the Croatian government to pass this law. Third, we have experience from our neighboring countries. It's mostly from Italy. And now I'm asking you, Mr. Tadic. In your opinion, what are the famous reasons for passing this law? Because he, in the profession, so he in the profession, we consulted the profession, the maritime profession, we consulted the unions, we consulted the islanders. He doesn't have a foothold at any of these points we're talking about. So why, in your opinion, does the Proposer pass this law, or suggests that such a law be passed?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56473	Replica response, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56474	As far as the Agency is concerned, I've been appalled by the fact that energy was spent on the Agency's headquarters, instead of dealing with my court, my court, allow me, my court is more important on the subject, which is the structure of shipping. Our models we have proposed are such that they satisfy both the north and south of the Adriatic. The agency should be tied to the Ministry. And when we proposed the formation of the ministry, we proposed it two years ago to be composed of a sum of agencies. But then let the Agency have outposts at each of the major maritime centers. With that, we would simply acquit this whole problem. And what are the motives? Listen, I've been reading all these European documents and, therefore, the European Commission's opinion is forcing us to do so. I can only guess, and the best thing to do is ask your ministry colleagues, I can only assume that their desire might be a better regulation of the market. But the market is governed by existing laws and everyone is sailing. But I wouldn't want to be a government attorney, let the government's representatives answer why that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56475	One notice. At 1:00 in the hall "Stepan Radic", 133, session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. To the knowledge and alignment of the members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56476	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. On the islands and on the coast, it's usually said, "Give the baby to the mother.". So we met with our domestic shipmen, who I welcome this time, and we agree with them, the Croatian Party of Rights has agreed with them and we propose some concrete changes to this law. Therefore, in Article 6(3), paragraph 3 behind the words: "In the state budget under the funds for the work of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, funds will be provided to encourage the construction of ships."we want words to be added: "in domestic shipyards." And the reason is because the promotion of shipbuilding only makes sense if it is about Croatian shipbuilding. Articles 10, 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall read as follows: "On the line set out in Article 5 of this Act with the corresponding garden of the ship, the capacity of the ship, the route and the frequency of transport may be determined at the same time by the existence of a line of other importance, if there is a need for a higher frequency of transport. A higher frequency of transport on state lines may be requested by the county, city or municipal headship. In that case, the transport will be carried out by a shipowner who has received a concession to carry out the transport on that state line." In fact, we believe that on the line set out in Article 5 of this Act a county line can also be established if, over time, there is a need for greater frequency of transport. It must therefore be possible to post-introduction of the county line. Legally guaranteed standards of liner shipping are defined through state lines, and county lines have additional line status. Article 11 adds the new items: the condition for the award of concessions for public transport on state lines is an experience in public transport, in line, coastal, maritime transport in the Croatian territorial sea for at least 3 years. The advantage of awarding concessions shall be given to Jadrolini Rijeka within the meaning of the Law on Jadrolinija Rijeka and other shipowners operating line coastal maritime transport. And the reason is that these allow priority in obtaining concessions to existing domestic shipmen. A new or foreign shipowner who wishes to be involved in obtaining concessions for state lines must, before that, pass a certain probationary period. However, this does not prevent them from obtaining a concession for county or local i.e. supplemental lines. In Article 15, paragraph 1 is amended and complemented so that the words "on state lines" are added to the words "and on the county lines". New items 4, 5 are added, which read: "The Agency's headquarters is in Zagreb. The Agency has its regional administrative departments in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split and Dubrovnik." And the reason is that we've removed these disputes about the Agency's headquarters. Given the growing ship traffic and the need for supervision of both state and county lines, the Agency should have its own facilities. Regional administrative departments in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split and Dubrovnik. In Article 17, paragraph 2 is amended as follows: "Performing all matters related to the award of concessions on the county and inter-zonal lines of procedure to the corresponding state lines referred to in paragraph 1." The Agency should be empowered to monitor both state and county lines. Otherwise, concessions will be awarded and control over the ship carrying out the transport will vary from county to county, and the standard of shipping will also differ. In Article 26(3) and (4), paragraphs 3 and 4 are amended and read as follows: The decision to grant concessions for the county lines and the inter-zonal lines shall be adopted by the Agency at the request of the county heads. Decision on the award of concessions for local municipal lines, i.e. the City Headship, with the agreement of the Agency. Article 5 is deleted because, at the request of the county heads, the Agency should grant and withdraw concessions. Paragraph 5 is unnecessary with an article written like this. In Article 28(1), point 5 is deleted: or the Member State of the European Union. A new point 6 is added: That there is a replacement ship of the same or approximately the same characteristics or contract concluded with another shipowner who may provide them with a replacement ship of the same or approximately the same characteristics if necessary. The current formulation of point 5 of Article 28 states that members of the ship's crew should be Croatian citizens but may also be citizens of the Member States of the European Union who have contracted to work with the shipowner. This is how foreign sailors are indirectly introduced into the Croatian labour market. Interestingly, there is no obligation to speak Croatian. One of the conditions for obtaining concessions should also be a replacement ship. Such a ship can only now be provided by Jadrolini while other shipowners must present a contract guaranteeing, if necessary, the rental of a replacement ship. In Article 30(2), the words ‘and the Administrative Council of the Agency’ shall be added. This is because the Agency should participate in the award and confiscation of concessions beyond the county line. According to the draft law, members of the expert commission for the implementation of concession tenders are appointed by the county heads, and we believe that they should be appointed by the Agency. In Article 46(2), (3), (4) is deleted because foreign cabotage is unacceptable in the Croatian territorial sea, especially if it is a foreign shipowner who has no experience in sailing the Croatian part of the Adriatic. The current formulation of Article 46 allows for the next development of events. The home shipman finds that the concession is invaluable under the current conditions and decides not to request an extension of the concession. At that time, without a concession tender, concessions are awarded by direct contract or, worse still, a foreign shipkeeper is introduced again without competition. Article 33 offers at the same time a far more acceptable procedure. Article 69 is deleted and the argument is: because it is a simple reason because the privatisation of Jadrolinia after all concessions on all lines is unnecessary for any mention of the privatisation of Jadrolinia. Its role is to protect the legally guaranteed standard of shipping, liner transport and best to keep it state-owned for that purpose. The private initiative shows, not through the privatisation of Jadrolinia, but through the introduction of other shipowners into county and shipping lines through a public private partnership which the concession is. And yet another remark to colleagues who say that, that the population of the islands is growing. That's not true. Mr. Bacic will also confirm to me that on the island of Korčula it is concrete that 20, 30, 40% more died than were born last year. And I'd like the secretary of state to finally show up on these suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56477	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56478	Dear Mr. President, I would like to support Mrs. Ruža Tomasic's argumented presentation with additional facts regarding the construction of ships and ports. The best example is the issue of Jadrolinia and the Rab navigation that started preparing for the competition by building new, larger, more flow ships because they need time to prepare even better. Therefore, they should also have these priority concessions to prepare themselves, so that everything is right. It is also important to say, for example, for the Sibenik area, to build ports. For example, the motor ship Mislav cannot drive at an economical speed because it passes by a protected area. We also know for ourselves that the Sibenik-Ankon line has been abolished and now we have the Zadar-Ankon line because sailing into the Sibenik space is a waste of time due to the need to reduce speed and go through the canal. We should also say that to this day the fate of 10 dead sailors has not been resolved, although in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences we have given the amendment and their fates, the families have not yet resolved. So this is all still saying that you can't tell what a transitional period is now? It doesn't start in five years. It starts tomorrow. That's the whole problem for both Jadoli and Rabska to stand on their feet and protect our interests, not some other people's interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56479	The reply to the replica of the respected representative, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56480	Thank you very much. I completely agree and support my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56481	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56482	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Tadic, here's a Pannonian sailor on the Adriatic subject. With the fact that I have to admit that I have asked for the help and advice of the Adriatic colleagues, and when you address the unions, then you can have a number of useful suggestions in better law reading especially when the government is a proposing. I will, in fact, explain in my debate why I will not support this law as well as my colleagues at the club and probably the amendments I gave in time, which I am sure the minister has already prepared to reject. So 4 reasons are: First proposed is the Agency for Coastal and Linel Maritime Transport, which is now proposed by the Government, and I must remind myself that sometime a year ago we have just proposed an agency that should manage both the sea and the islands, the coast and this part of the work for it predicted, and then the government said in its explanation that such an agency of Croatia is not needed, it is now partly necessary, but I don't understand why. The agency is doing those jobs that the ministry has done so far without any criteria for tendering, without any criteria of the essential part of the job, which has awarded concessions. Four or five people who are doing this now at the ministry, will be at the agency all one thing, i.e. simply collecting a variant of the implementation of that part of the state's work. The second reason why I will not vote in favour of this bill, because the amendment will be rejected, is a provision in Article 28 which provides that citizens of the European Union can be members of the crew. As far as I know, Croatia is not yet a member of the European Union, so I do not understand why we are members now, we are going with more rigorous provisions than any other country did before it joined the European Union. Croatia has one specificity that no country has entered the Union or prepared itself, which is islands. According to the number of inhabited islands and the fact that connecting islands and land is a national interest. The Greeks were in a similar position, but they had prior boat lines privatised so they did not have to conduct such a debate. Now if Croatia has anything to say that we are specific, it is our islands, we are going here with a solution that none of us in Europe ask to prove that we are great Europeans and to give competition to our sailors in the area of European Union members. And I guess when we're going to be a member of the European Union, then we're going to expand that to Asia and Africa. I don't understand why. I don't understand who needs it, and how there are claims that current sailors in our shipmen shouldn't worry about their fate. Third, that same article speaks of the fact that those participating in the competition must give evidence that they will meet the requirements. He has to prove that he will meet the conditions, not that he has the conditions. First, I don't understand what evidence this is going to be, and second, we open the market in one sensitive area and we meet the evidence that someone is going to meet some conditions in the future. When someone enters the competition, and I hear that the information about what these conditions will be like in Europe are already known, then at least the minimum courtesy is that the stranger who appears in the competition in Croatia meets the conditions at that time. We also give them a prolongation I don't know at what time, that it proves to the state that they will meet the conditions and at the time of the announcement there are probably no ships, but they can report to the competition and get a concession, and the ships will have when Jadrolini will have to sell their ships because they will be out of work. And a fourth. If we do not keep the possibility that competition comes gradually through the priority lines for at least 12 years, which I propose in the 5th amendment, and after domestic shipowners who have renewed the fleet, which are fenced in a domestic shipyard, do not pay most of the loans they have on these ships, we will have a situation that cheap competition will come, and it can only be cheaper with old ships that are not loaded with loans or have minimal burdens and that crew that are less paid than the Croatian crew. Only then can they be competitive, and by forcing these solutions, they obviously want to be achieved. So because of all the dilemmas about whether this law is good for the islands or not, we don't have to give the court here today. The island's inhabitants will soon be able to assess whose arguments were correct and correct and what consequences such a solution will have. If this law really is passed, in 4-5 years we will not have "Jadrolini", the people of the island on land, from land to islands, will not drive, transport "Jadrolini" but... I don't know why we're all pretending we don't know that foreign shipowners registered their companies in Croatia, that we're waiting for the adoption of this law and tendering, and for all the other actions that are needed to take over the lines through the tobacco contests of the tobacco agency, actually, they've already been made. [[You don't understand.]] It's actually the backdrop of this law and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56483	Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56484	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I still don't have a decision on how I'm going to vote for this bill either against the law or be abstention. I'm not sure the amendments to the bill can be fixed, because I think it's an unfinished project that should be sent to the third reading and try to fix it by the third reading. Allow just a few remarks that primarily refer to the essence of things, and then some that refer to a formal statement. The first law states that the public transport activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia in Article 3 of this Act. I must say immediately that, unfortunately, if this is determined or fortunately established under the Constitution, it must be established immediately and how the protection of this interest of the Republic of Croatia is achieved in the same law. This law does not discuss the matter at all, and instead of talking about it, it does not indicate whether a law would be different. The "Jadrolinia" Act could protect and achieve the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it actually does something quite different, something unusual and in nomotechnical practice, which is that the transitional and final provision of Article 70 deletes Article 3, Article 6 and Article 19 of the Law on "Jadrolinia" which, among other things, should have done and discussed the role of the company "Jadrolinia" when the company "Jadrolinia" by force of the law must carry out transport on the lines of maritime transport in order to protect the state interest and where it appears as the holder of public authority on the one hand and on the other hand as it does and not only exercise public authority but in cooperation with the Ministry of the Sea, Maritime Affairs and Liaison. I must say that in this respect it is very interestingly worked out in Law 19, even in the event of a strike or other extraordinary circumstances unless it is driven on these lines, what is required and how it is to act "Jadrolini". All of this is now not in this law, and in this law, practically and in accordance with the provisions of Article 29, not only opens the market but opens the market without any restrictions, where it is said among other things, I quote: "A boater who offered a higher concession fee on a given line does not seek support or seek a lower level of support, and the boat is less old and more comfortable." Excuse me, dear colleagues and colleagues, this with the protection of the value of transport as an interest of the Republic of Croatia has little to do with it. This team, and it has a lot of meaning if it is put into context with Article 63, where it is said that Jadrolini is a company for the liner shipping of passengers and cargo of Rijeka, which, until the day of entry into force of this Act, maintains state lines based on a specific law, will continue to maintain existing lines until the takeover of lines by shipowners, etc. Therefore, it is obvious that Article 29 of this Law was in fact set up to ensure that boaters compete in this part and that they are actually trying to reach an agreement with the state on who will receive the concession, not who will protect the public interest of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why this law is unspeakable. Of course, in this context it is quite clear that the privatisation of Jadrolinija will begin only after the concessions are divided, and this is predetermined that the lines will actually be privatised first, and only after that actually open the privatisation of Jadrolinija. Which basically kills two flies with one blow. On the one hand, it is actually possible for the private sector to get lines, not only with the support of the state but that the state, by over-income from the budget, gives it to the private sector, and that at the same time the Law did not prescribe that the private sector when it behaves, is obliged to protect the state interest. And this is the greatest flaw of this Law, and in this respect, the Law is completely unspeakable, and it must be done. Secondly, this has not been completed, I say, and especially after certain provisions of the Adriatic Law have been deleted. The second thing that is important is the fact that the deadlines prescribed by this Law are practically unsustainable. For you, if you take the deadlines set in Article 62 in relation to the deadlines set out in Article 66, you will once see that, for example, the appointment of the Agency, i.e. the Governing Council and everything else in relation to the deadlines set out in Article 62, where only then, within 90 days, the Government will elaborate. The question of the rules referred to in Article 29, then Articles 39 and 50, even though it is actually a regulation rather than a number of regulations, which is, again, not technically, unsustainable as regulated. Then it becomes clear that, in fact, such a situation, if a question is asked, and what will this agency do until the government has passed its regulations? It is clear that these deadlines exclude each other. The second thing I would like to mention is the fact that in this way, not really Jadrolini is thrown on the market, but Jadrolini puts it in an unfavourable relationship on the market. In an unfavourable relationship on the market. Namely, you must keep in mind that there is still a Law on the Adriatic under which Jadrolini must fulfil certain conditions in the remaining applicable provisions, must fulfil certain obligations towards the State as a state undertaking, without all other private persons having to do so. And in such a situation, Jadrolini is in future market relations in the award of concessions in an unfavourable position. And for that reason, the law needed to develop this issue and also to elaborate this second question through the Jadrolinija Law. Third, fourth thing. This is, nomotechnically interesting that lex generalis with general legal provisions are actually changing special provisions. This is not permissible instead of lex specialis being a provision that derogates the general provision we are now changing by general provision and not only in the Law on the Adriatic but also in the Law on the Islands from which the content and essence of the state interest of the Republic of Croatia originates again. That's it, this law is completely nomotechnically unworked. After all, even in Article 61, I will take the most banignant who speaks of violations. For example, among other things, it is stated in point 8... which has a crew member on board who does not meet the conditions set out in Article 28(1).6. You know, that Article 28(1) has no point 6 at all. He only has points 5, therefore, even prescribed is not good because until the end he does not comply this Law nom technically within himself, let alone anything else. Fifth, this Law states, among other things, in Article 71, that the day of publication should take effect. Well, for God's sake, he's not even in line with the Constitution, Article 89. The constitution which clearly states, if an early entry is required, 8 days before the entry, then specific reasons must be specified which require it. This is neither indicated nor explained. The sixth, this, the motion is incorrect to the Parliament and to the parliamentary deputies. In the final part on page 38, it is said, among other things in Chapter VI, Roman 6, that all proposals of essential nature were incorporated into the final draft of the law. That's not true. For example, there was a debate in the Parliament on the priority concession. Why? Because, in fact, the priority concession of the Republic of Croatia would be one of the forms of protection of the interest of the Republic of Croatia while such a possibility exists and such obligation, until we resolve it in a different way, possibly by other regulations. But if such proposals were made in the parliamentary debate, I gave them to me, given by my colleague, Dorotea Pesic, others did. And it has not been stated at all or explained why the proposal has not been accepted but is said to have been incorporated into the bill, and are not incorporated into the bill at all. Well, I think a little more dignity and responsibility to the Parliament must be given to lawmakers. No matter, you know, whose remark it is and what it's like, it's gotta be fair. Especially shouldn't it be written in law that it's all arranged. Well, we're reading everything that says here, etcetera, etcetera. Seven, the very reason for the Law is why the Law is passed. It is already visible from the reasoning of the Law that the project is being prepared and that a project that should lead to how to ensure the privatisation of Jadrolinija is sought. But I'm sorry, gentlemen, let's pass the law on the privatisation of Jadrolinia. Let us not talk about the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, which we are talking about, about lines of interest for the Republic of Croatia, where we should now work out the question of what about new lines that will open towards populated and uninhabited islands in the season and post-season. Let's see what we do in such a situation, do we introduce the market here and in what form? Whether in such islands and there, we will ensure that some of these lines must be of interest to the Republic of Croatia, which also stands strategically, the reasons for the needs of the population. Let's see these things. We need to discuss this, this should be discussed by this Law, if we are to discuss the privatisation of Jadrolinia. I also think that Jadrolinija is such an important shipowner in the Republic of Croatia, given the protection of national interest in maritime transport, that it is important to pass a special Law on the privatisation of Jadrolinia in which a transitional period will be established. And at the same time determine under what conditions and how the privatisation of Jadrolinia can be carried out, and at the same time that legal... which will participate in the privatisation must ensure the interest of the Republic of Croatia in maritime transport until other issues, i.e. in a different way, are resolved, are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I don't think this law is clear, that the horse law is and that the bill should be referred to the third reading and should be completed by the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56485	Thank you. State Secretary Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56486	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's what I'd like you to look back at a few remarks, allegations that were made during yesterday's debate. First of all, I would like to say, therefore, that the government is not declarative, said there is no speech on the privatisation of "Jadrolinia" but we have already written it, that is to say, this is Article 69, so there is no privatisation of "Jadrolinia" at the very least until the law is implemented, which does not mean that it would go further in privatising the line or that it is necessary to privatise "Jadrolinia". That's what the government didn't say at any point. And on the other hand, it does not mean that the contracted study commissioned by the ministry from the Faculty of Economics is also the government's view that the "Jadrolini" should be privatised. That's two separate things. We are through the creation of this Law, which I said in my first reading and I said in this House that until the second reading, we will show ourselves about the government's position, the privatisation of Jadrolinia, and we, based on this study and on what this government thinks about "Jadrolinia" said in article 69, and we stick to and repeat, and I think it's trying to throw this hot potato into the government's mouth, we're neither holding nor needing to privatise "Jadrolinia" and I think that with what we're concerned with the government, we can close that story, because if we thought otherwise we wouldn't have been written in this Law. The second thing was yesterday, there were also words that only the government's declaration of support versus "Jadrolinia" and that "Jadrolinia" except that there are only 10% of the value of the ship to encourage the construction of ships in domestic shipyards as well as other boaters in Croatia do not stand. I will tell you that in the last 5 years, namely the position of encouraging the construction of Jadrolinia ships in domestic shipyards has been allocated 20 million kunas, so slightly less than 3 million euros, while on the other hand the support of owners, i.e. The Republic of Croatia's construction of the same fleet in domestic shipyards, which means almost complete settlement of the obligations resulting from the return of the credit annuity is 100 million kuna. So, the word that "Jadrolinia" or the claim that "Jadrolinia" returns its loans to the core of business or to the greatest extent by obtaining funds that collects tickets for transport does not stand because I say five times as much from the position of refurbishment of the Jadrolinia fleet paid for the repayment of the loan for the renewal of the fleet, for the construction of the ships, and that enables the esteemed MPs, it enables "Jadrolinia" to renew the fleet, not the fact that "Jadrolinia" can finance the repayment of the loan from its own business, and that is very important, and that enables the construction of the fleet, and that enables the competitiveness of the "Jadrolinia" in any future competition that will be called under this Act. It was also a matter of public interest. The law therefore states that the activity of maritime transport, primarily line maritime transport and occasional maritime transport, is therefore an activity of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia. Now the question is who can best protect this public interest, the interest of the Republic of Croatia? In my opinion, this interest is best protected by the one who has made a commitment to himself in accordance with all the positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia. This can be and at this point performs the best because it is significantly and subsidized from the state budget of the state shipowner, but we also cannot say that this public interest which primarily refers to the needs of islanders to be better connected is also being carried out by a number of other private shipmen. At this point, Jadrolini has a job of about a thousand and 350 sailors. Private boaters in Croatia currently employ between 500 and 600 seamen and these crews and carry out the quality of this job and fulfill the public interest that this Law defines. Those who carry out a quality line, who sails high-qualityly, who fulfils their obligations to the state budget, who fulfils the obligations to all seamen, who maintains the line of quality, who also has the right to expect it by the Government, that this Parliament, that the legislator respects and that, under the same conditions, the future tenders resulting from this Act are reported. The priority concession issue is very important. The amendment given by the SDP states that the priority concession is to be settled by contract or to be given to shipowners carrying out ferry and classical shipping. Therefore, it does not apply to all shipowners, and such shipowners who, or such lines for which priority concession is proposed, have 32 and 14 have those who should also go to the competition. The question arises whether someone who had already had to go to a line competition in 1997, so nine years ago, to go to a competition for what day he is doing today, which is then by law, or by special approval of the ministry, that he is then 5 years ago and when after 2002, he has expired the deadline by which he can carry out the same line now has the right to regain the priority concession, and on the other hand someone who has received a line on the basis of the law in the competition and who regularly does not make it possible to do the same right. I think it is also morally doubtful to someone who has already received a priority concession and who has consumed it and who practically expired 4 years ago now through the law to give priority concessions, and on the other hand to someone who neatly conducts it in such a privileged position cannot introduce it. That's one thing to me. And the other thing is that I hold that since the funds that are, that the service provided in this maritime transport and which is subsidized by the State budget are only available to certain shipmen, and not to other shipowners who fulfil all the legal obligations, obligations under the maritime code and who can do so. I think it is in a certain way a discriminatory relationship with all those shipowners, private boaters in Croatia who are fairly carrying out line transport, who fairly comply with their contracts and the law all those obligations that make it impossible for him to report to some competition. It does not mean that there will be a report, and I think that, in practice, if we talk about the use of navigation, that no current shipowner in Croatia when it comes to connecting Jablanac and Misnjak and Rab to the mainland, there is no use for serious competition. But Rabing is a private shipowner, doing very well. It has shown that a private shipowner can carry out very high-quality public transport, transport therefore of interest to the Republic of Croatia and I see no reason why other shipmen could not do so if they were allowed to do so. And the state, as the owner of the largest shipowner, will certainly take care of its shipowner on its own and therefore enables it to enter the most ready in the competition. There's a real story about a priority concession. Therefore, a priority concession can be introduced but I think there would be a number of arguments that would be against such a decision and that could only then accuse this government of being suitable. And I repeat, at this point, the companies for which a priority concession is proposed are owned by foreign companies. So we don't need to be afraid of some babies as Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said. We don't need to be afraid of someone... and at the same time give a priority concession to someone who is already a stranger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I'm running out of time. Later on, I'll answer the word again and say the rest, and there are still a series of objections to which the answer should be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56487	Correction of incorrect allegations, there are more. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56488	Your Honor, your Honor, Mr. Representatives! There are more false allegations beginning than they didn't think they were going to write what they wrote, but what I look back at and blame the assumption that the story of privatisation for them could be done. Wrong, Mr. Secretary of State, because if that were the case then we would not be told here that one of the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is gradually controlled by privatisation. It should then be pointed out that the new Transport Act in line with occasional coastal maritime transport, which is based on the right to carry out public line traffic by awarding concessions through a public tender, constitutes a significant element at the stage of the implementation of possible privatisation, etc. Then you're telling us, you're giving us a plate on what it's going to look like. At the first stage, 40% should be taken over by a retired defence fund, then local self-government 25% and 60% goes to market in phase two. And who's going to buy Jadrolini in the end? Foreigners, they won't. It's the domestic owners of shipping companies that had nothing in the 1990s and today have five, six ships.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56489	Thank you. Dear Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56490	Mr. President, it is not the correct statement by the Secretary of State that line transport is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. It is a ignorance of the very proposal of the law because the law explicitly states "the public transport activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia" and public transport is achieved through all three types of lines, both state and county, and local. However, which is a public transport of interest to the Republic of Croatia, it is said in Article 3 and I quote "which ensures the regular link between the inhabited islands and the land and populated islands on land with an appropriate number of daily connections in both directions in order to create better living conditions for islands and fostering their development". This is of public interest to the Republic of Croatia, and in such a situation for this part of the law, it is necessary to elaborate on who the interest of the Republic of Croatia must be achieved in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution, which is why the law is not elaborated and is therefore inadmissible. He needs to be sent to third reading and finished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56491	Third correction by respected representative Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56492	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretary of State said that it does not say that Jadrolini will be privatised and it states in Article 69: "Privatisation of the Jadrolinia Society for Line and Maritime Transport of Passengers and Freight Rijeka can only be accessed after the award of concessions for all state lines in accordance with the provisions of this law." Then it was unnecessary to mention this privatisation at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56493	Thank you. The fourth correction by the respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56494	It is incorrect that all private shipmen are doing a quality job for which they received a concession. Some like the Rab navigation do it in quality but forgive Sen Marina it does not do it in quality, Buljubašić's company does not do it in quality. Neither has a replacement ship, has put the lives of passengers at risk, has broken down there about the coast on the bonaco. And everyone knows, look out, all of Split, the whole country knows why he got that concession. Well, that was pay, that was a reward for coalition co-operation and government in Split, a reward. And the only thing we fear is that with this law, when you vote it, you will continue to share such rewards. You'll pay for coalition cooperation. That's what this is about. And now you're saying it's a high-quality boatman. It's an unskilled boatman who, you pay him for something else... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56495	Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović is the fifth correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56496	Thank you. The Secretary of State says that with this bill, I can rightly expect anyone who is doing their job neatly, to be able to report to the concession. This will certainly apply, and it is incorrect that everyone can expect it. This can be expected first of all by those who are now talking about the esteemed colleague Stazic and those who are others who are doing a good job. But that can't possibly expect a Jadrolini who's forbidden to report to the most frequent line. And if it's not forbidden from the government, then what measures have you taken towards the administration, if that's not the case. And another. You say you'll protect this law by Jadrolini and also separate the market. So please, it's two incompatible possibilities that this one law could handle it unless it's a strange beak part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56497	Next correction, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56498	It is an incorrect claim by the State Secretary, which points out that the current law on line and along coastal transport has defined a priority concession. It is not defined, no article in the existing law defines it. It is known what the priority concession means, it is known that it has both a name and a last name, we know enough Croatian. Therefore, the current law has not defined any of the existing shipowners, whether or not the state, owning a priority concession in private. And that is what we are proposing for the first time in this bill to introduce a term of priority concession. We're talking about how to get it. And what's important is we want to point out how long the priority concession lasts, because that's how it's defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56499	And the esteemed representative Zdenko Antesic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56500	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, speaking on the amendment of the SDP Club and on the proposal for the award of priority concessions, said incorrectly that it was all about all lines. That's not true. We're looking for, so our club's proposal is that priority concessions be awarded for state lines, so for a system of state lines. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56501	Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56502	Thank you very much. Mr. President, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues! When I say that Croatia is a maritime country, it is certainly a finding that we will all agree with because it really is. But what is Croatia's maritime country? There's already a subject far more complex and open. Is this failure of the white fleet that followed by the collapse of Croatian shipmen on the overseas lines of Croatia line, Sibenik, Dalmatian, Mediterranean is it only the bottom that can be reached when it comes to a maritime country such as Croatia? I think that it can be one warning and also learning in this case on its own failures so that you should not go further, and, of course, in the context of this bill, very, very important issues should be raised. The most important question is what is public transport in line coastal transport? What's he like? Under what circumstances and how does this line traffic take place? What is the impact of this traffic on life on the Adriatic islands but what is the impact of this traffic on tourism that is an important participant and a participant in this traffic. That's part of the question. One part of the question to be answered so that we can make quality judgments on the proposals of the law. The second part of the equally important issues is how the development policy of the shipowners were those of the state shipowners of Jadrolinia or private shipmen affecting the business of the industry either the shipbuilding industry or the other industry, the accompanying industry, the business of tourist companies. So one expands the macro environment. These two questions will, in fact, provide an answer to what kind of law should be, in whose interest it should be, and what approaches to the law should be proposed. Of course, a false impression may have been created for one who did not listen carefully to the debates or points of view to speak here about the express preference of a state shipman to the expense of private shipmen. It's simply not true at least as far as I'm concerned, this is about more complex relationships. In fact, I think the law should be done equally well for both the state shipman and private shipmen. Because we cannot declare the principles of market competition on one side and on the other side we can deafen ourselves to such and similar phenomena. But that doesn't mean that the public interest he was talking about and the vice president at home doesn't need to be particularly protected. Therefore, I personally hold that this law and the bill have opened up a whole series of positive debates, views and views. It would also be wrong not to see any shortcomings in the state carrier, even as far as parliament is concerned. We have never debated the spending of 280 million kunas that are being obtained annually in this House and we should have discussed it. I also like to know how each line subsidizes individually. Why? Not to point it against the state shipman, but to enhance the quality of the service, the quality of the ships, and to see how we can deal with the strategic plan. How from the point of view of the user were they islanders or tourists or any who consume or use transport services looks or how they look at the function of this debate. In my opinion, it should result in quality of services. It means that transport services are more common, that they are more quality and cheaper. That's one side. The other side is more important and more important to me how, from a national perspective, to confirm that we are a maritime country. We need the mechanisms we have today when we are not members of the European Union to create such preconditions for the domestic state shipman and private shipmen to strengthen and to deal with any competition in the future. The state shipman requires far more attention, support and subsidies. Of course, I agree what the state's secret said. Jadrolini does not have sufficient resources from its own accumulation to monitor development, monitor past loans and maintain cold drive. But that's why it's the role of the state because no one else would have that in the place of Jadrolinier. And through Jadrolini and strengthening Jadrolini with all its potentials but clearly in a proper way that never again happens to buy ships in Spain and anywhere else than to buy ships produced in Croatia. In this way, by positioning Jadrolini as a state shipowner, there is reason, there is a need to consider a priority concession. It is precisely because we strategically position Jadrolinija in long term that in competitive relations it is positioned strong, strong and Croatian when it comes to ships that will be supplied, when it comes to labour that will work on those ships, but also when it comes to defending other and similar interests. Of course, it shouldn't stop at anything private shipmen and the development of competition because, as I said, it doesn't matter to our citizens who he drives but how he drives it? But again, I'm coming back and they're Croatian shipmen. And these are Croatian shipmen who, as we said, have or employ over 500 people, which is also very important and should be welcomed. So you can't and I'm not personally running this, this statement of my position in a way that is both for and against Jadrolinia. I think that Jadrolini needs to be strengthened, that it needs to be given priority concessions not because of it, not because of the monopoly, but because it can be targeted and strategically invested in a domestic shipowner to make it more quality, more supervised in the future, to use its resources more rationally, and that at a time when we are fully liberalised free market that we can deal with any competition that we will be exposed to when we are in society with those who act so equally. Therefore, one another does not challenge one another. Domestic shipmen, the state-owned company Jadrolinija must not and should not dispute or slow the growth of private shipmen, but very important, Mr. Minister, when you are here, for us in HSS, is a very important article 69 to say unequivocally, there is no privatisation without a special law on privatisation, the course and the way this Assembly will bring. In this way, we will appease all those who rightly, and dare speak because Mr. Ministers, experienced such and similar proposals in the past, dare say that it is very important to express such an opportunity. And the matter of priority concession, there's no reason not to solve in a way that shouldn't be discriminated against by private shipmen. And why is that? There's no need for that. I don't think it's even a Jadrolinia's attitude to discriminate against someone and take away the rights that you have yourself. Therefore, I think that there should be no doubt in terms of the conflict of private shipmen with the state shipowner but in terms of raising the overall competitiveness of Croatian shipowners, in terms of creating better conditions and cheaper prices, as well as more frequent lines that will connect our islands. Because it's the only way this law, as I said at the beginning, will make sense and be able to answer the simple question, what is public transport in a line of coastal transport, whether it's good, whether it's bad or mediocre? I think it's an opportunity to avoid big stories for small results and position ourselves in very clear positions. We will not privatise Jadrolini, we will not allow jobs to be closed on Jadrolini, but we will invest in Jadrolini, the state shipman we will protect but we will also allow domestic boaters, I am not talking about sides, to try to impose and contribute to improving services in terms of line transportation on our islands and on the Adriatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56503	Replica, a respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56504	Mr President, the priority concession issue does not actually determine the shipowner but rather this interest from the Republic of Croatia regarding the public transport which has been designated and prescribed in Article 3(1) of the Law proposal, on the one hand, in the narrowest sense of the word. Why? Because it is necessary to provide on these lines transport from coast to islands, among islands, to populated islands, at least twice during one day. In a broader sense, these words will, of course, satisfy these conditions to obtain a priority concession from that shipowner who can best meet such conditions on most of the lines that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia because they provide full public transport, that is number two. And in the third sense, in the broadest sense of the word, it is a state-owned shipowner who at the same time employs our people, who uses our capacities and thus collects income from the budget which, among other things, refunds, through credit obligations, returns its commitments to expand its fleet on the one hand and again invests in our companies that will build that same fleet. Therefore, this interest of the Republic of Croatia is far more important than what can be seen at first sight if we want to fully interpret it, is in this respect absolutely unequivocally that all material, essential, economic, organisational, work, social, and if you want the political and legal criteria to be fought for the award of a priority concession on all those lines which achieve public transport as the interest of the Republic of Croatia as referred to in Article 3(1) of this proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56505	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56506	I made it very clear that the public interest stems from a clearly set goal. The public interest cannot be affected by an entity that will exercise public interest if it is publicly defined and if it is known in which way we will meet that objective. If the goal is to cover all lines and those where it is necessary to establish at least twice a day, then it is very clear that we can strengthen that interest so as not to be a relationship twice a day but four times a day without only going to the advantage because of the allegations of "public interest". Therefore, I did not speak in the context of reducing the share of public interest but of expanding this public interest that people, if they had two relationships a day, might now have four, while we will not undo anyone’s public interest and even less the interest of the state shipowner Jadrolinia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56507	Another replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56508	Thank you. You're telling your colleague Markov rightfully that we don't need a conflict between a private shipman and the state shipman of Jadrolinia. You see in that, it may be the catch of this whole law and destruction. When a whole series of public criticisms were launched, the government itself submitted the amendment to this bill and then interpreted to us from the government, there is no difference there you know "Jadrolini" and some foreign shipowner, now you are all Croatian shipmen and the one who came and registered Genoa together with "Jadrolinia", and that is what we will not, which is not the Union of Seamen and Jadrolinius, which our islanders will not. Because when we say "Senmarina," it gets a little dressed, doesn't sail, then it's got to sail who, "Jadrolini," then sail. So what the government has done with its amendment is nothing but try to fix and embellish a law that will make no difference, which is just a camouflage of the whole thing as it is said in our people "to keep your hairs off", so we're looking here for a clean and clean position for "Jadrolini", so before the government keeps telling her it's a priority, protecting the island, and then let's define "Jadrolini" as our national shipman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56509	Nenad Stazic, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56510	You see, my colleague, you're saying that it's necessary to allow domestic boaters to enter that competition with Jadrolinia, so let's not be naive. So these pages that are registered here in Croatia are suddenly starting to function as domestic. They're disguised as a matter of fact. They're actually disguised and we're opening up space to them this way. Is someone making us do that, Mr. Markov? But absolutely no one. We have our own state shipman, he's doing a great job, and we all agree on that. The minister agrees with that, the government agrees, the users agree, we all agree on that. And now he, he's doing it without any need, for no reason to bring him competition, and yet, beware of the company, it's going to be the competition of the domestic shipmen. It won't be homework, so it's a joke, it won't be homework. Foreigners will register there, foreign companies. So why are we destroying something that's our own? So what for? So can anyone here, no one said the excess reason? Why, who's making us do that? So why leave our people without bread, for what? Let's not be naive, colleague Markov, to use this to open the possibility for domestic shipmen, our people to take extra time. No, no. We open the door for strangers, and we close the doors for our boaters. We're pushing them into the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56511	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56512	I have calculated that I am clear enough when I say that I support Croatian domestic shipmen who, by the same principles, have to work and strengthen the overall Croatian strength to be shown and which must have one maritime country. For me, domestic Croatian shipmen, of course, are the state boatman Jadrolini, but the state shipman Jadrolini, gentlemen, can be privatized tomorrow by the Spanish shipman. And in order not to be, I was just talking about the amendment that we put in the club, which is that we clearly and unequivocally position it in the future as a Croatian domestic shipowner in whom there is reason to invest and give it stronger support than he has ever had before. And it's not good for policy reasons to stand up for witch hunting. I'm not into witch hunting. I think there are also private domestic honest Croatian shipmen who are well, well and with little profit doing business on the Adriatic. They've done it before and during the old Yugoslavia, they're doing it now. And it's not good to put everyone in the same basket and tell everyone that they're sold souls and that there are strangers behind them. Those there are and who are supposed to be away from domestic, private Croatian boaters. I speak on behalf of and for the account of those who are still in the majority of Croatian domestic shipmen. Because if you will, and the fishing cooperative of Vrgada, which with its humble wooden boat maintains the line from Vrgada to Pakoštane or Biograd is a domestic shipman who is dealing with all the troubles, with all the problems and with all those and most often alone and in his modest help and she is this valuable Croatian domestic shipman that I am apostrophefing here and I am talking about. About all those hiding behind something, I can't judge or speak of it, but I can't give the right to call all those on the other side now who aren't Jadrolini one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56513	Thank you. Secretary of State Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56514	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I said I'd run out of time before, so I couldn't answer all the questions. Here, Mr. Antesic, I have to answer to you that you probably haven't read the SDP amendment. The SDP amendment therefore speaks of a priority concession for state, ferry and classical shipping lines at the request of the shipowners. So, not for everyone because it's 46. And the SDP Club proposes to issue 32 priority concessions for them. So some people would be betrayed, and some people don't need to be made clear. So, if some boaters were given a priority concession, some would not. It's another thing. If this law had been in force so far, it would not have been possible for ships to sail in Croatia in a line-up of foreign ownership. And now that's also the case for that ship that you're proposing to extend according to the amendment, the priority concession is exactly a foreign ship. It's also very important and you need to know that. And that's the oldest ship on the Adriatic, the oldest ship on the Adriatic, which is proposed to have a foreign-owned priority concession. And I say, the oldest ship in the coastal coastal transport. We have prevented this law from calling for a ship owned by a foreign company. And during that country, therefore, during the former state, such a possibility existed. So, during Yugoslavia, the Croatian ship register could be carried out by a shipowner who is not Croatian, a ship whose owner is not a citizen of the then state, and we now prescribe that no shipowner whose ship is not owned by a Croatian legal person or a Croatian craftman can report to the tender. Why the law, Mr. Trainer? Well, I think I've said that a few times already. 46, I'll repeat, it's a state line. Of them 46 already now 19 must go to the competition. 19, so 19 lines must be opened according to existing laws. There are no sublegal acts defining a tender in line coastal maritime transport. The state's attorney's office, and this was the reason why the first SEM marina in Split was destroyed, said the activities of line coastal maritime transport could not be carried out through a tender based on the law on public procurement. And all the high-speed lines in the Republic of Croatia were issued from 99 to 2002 under the Public Procurement Act because there was no relevant law. Well, even the current law didn't prescribe it. And there was a reason why we had to pass the law, so, just for that reason, we had to prepare a legal procedure so that we could conduct a high-speed tender, just for the high-speed lines. And besides 5 lines of state, I've already said this before, and 5 state lines, including a line of Rape navigation, which also according to the current law must go to the competition. And when you advocate a priority concession, Mr. Antesic and the SDP Club, then you can rightly ask why it wasn't done in 2002. Why wasn't it done when it was required to be done by law? If you disagreed, then it was necessary to amend the law and what you are proposing today to this government to extend the priority concession you should have done then. Or you were obliged to call the competition, not to fold your shoulders and go over it and I think you should make that clear. One more thing that's important, too. Well, it's clear there's no privatisation of Jadrolinia without changing the Jadrolinia Act. No one can pass a new law except for this Parliament. I can accept the fact, i.e. the remark or the suggestion that this may have been in the law unnecessary because there is no privatisation of Jadrolinia without amending its law, its "Jadrolinia" Act or the adoption of a new law. So, according to this provision, it's more of a declarative nature to suggest that we really don't intend to privatise "the Adriatic." So, Mr. Markov, I agree that we can even... as you said, but it would have the same strength as if we were to take down the article because we couldn't privatize "Jadrolinia" without passing a special "Jadrolinia" Act, and that's a fundamental question, and we wanted to because we said and in the first reading we said that we were going to make a study, that on the basis of the study, we would explain what we think of the government as the fate of the state shipman and that we were meant to privatise "Jadrolinia" as soon as possible, that we were going to destroy it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We wanted to go through article 69 that wasn't in the first reading once again declares it even though I think that, personally, I don't think it should have even been there. We can also withdraw that amendment, we can accept it as it is, but it doesn't mean anything if the new Jadrolinia Act is passed because by then there's no talking about the privatisation of Jadrolinia and that's what's important to say. And I'm still going back to the strike issue. It was said that this law is so bad that it does not even solve the issue of a possible strike, or that it preserves the public interest of the Republic of Croatia. A series of articles define what the Government must do, what the Ministry must do, which the Agency must do if for any reason a boatman does not carry out line and public transport in Croatia, whether he has not obtained a replacement ship, whether or not he maintains that line according to a contract entrusted to him to carry out that line. So, a series of articles, we even went this far, that Mr. Tonci Tadic, Mr. Tadic said that he advocated and sought, the amendment says that he refuses at all as a possibility that when there is no one in Croatia who responded to the competition or who, in case someone does not carry out quality line transport, could replace it, that for a certain time until a new competition is carried out, we can drag a foreign shiper in that line transport is carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, not that he's doing it, but when no one answered for the competition or when someone whose concession was taken down had no replacement in Croatia, we even said to protect the interest of quality integration of the island with the mainland that in this case a foreign shipman could be hired to carry out the transport. This is what Mr. Tonci Tadic is against, though the maritime code does not dispute that when they are special, the maritime code says that cabotage can be valid if certain economic interests in the Republic of Croatia require it. We can also consider this amendment, and it was not intended for a foreign shipowner to operate in Croatia, but when on a given line, the state line cannot find an appropriate Croatian shipman to then at a certain time until the call for tenders, the choice of concessionaries may be valid by a foreign shipman, but not by any means further. There, so much so it'll probably be later in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56515	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56516	Thank you very much. Now, I would like to correct two incorrect allegations from Mr. Bacic. Namely, the first incorrect assumption is that I did not read this amendment. Here I am just reading it, the first amendment of the SDP Club is literally like this: "A priority concession for state ferry and classic shipping lines will be issued at the request of the shipowners." So that's what it says. So that's, that's incorrect what he said. And another allegation is that there is no legal basis for giving priority concessions. I agree now, but by including our amendment to Article 29 of the current draft law, the legal basis for the award of priority concessions is being obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56517	This was the proposal one that will happen if your amendment is accepted which you propose. And a second correction, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. You'll get the information quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56518	Thank you. It's simply incorrect that the secretary of state claimed that the government does not intend to privatise Jadrolini with this bill. This legislative proposal is nothing more than an overture of the privatisation of Jadrolinija, in a way that was first purchased by ships, and will be taken away by lines or forbidden to appear in competitions, which we have already seen and thus the situation is very certain, then we will have already seen privatisation and so we could become a country with sea and no sea. Mr. Secretary of State, it's been tried so many times. We've seen that before. We didn't suck oars here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56519	That correction is not exactly an inaccuracitation of the oars. We'll be working till half past noon. ... It's half past two now. It is now 13 and 23 or one-and-a-half, and at 15 hours we will vote on the points discussed previously, we will continue the debate Wednesday on this proposal of the law because there is still a decent number for the debate and then on Wednesday and debate, when we discuss this Final Proposal of the Law and decide whether it will go into what reading and how the Government will manifest itself with the amendments. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, we will have plenty of time to discuss this bill and amendments thoroughly, which have been tabled and other proposals that concern it. Dear representative, Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56520	Thank you, Mr. President. I will really try to appeal once again to the motionary to be very careful, to be very wise in the debate of the amendments. I remind you that public interest is something also defined by the current Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. And that public interest is passenger safety, safety and safety. Let us try to answer whether this public interest has been achieved through the current law. We will get the answer, yes, both the state shipmaker and the private shipowners are the basis of this law which was passed by the Croatian Parliament indeed carried out the transport of passengers in quality, safe and non-risk of the lives of the seamen. If we compare Croatia to Greece who had a state shipman who did not achieve that goal because he had a lot of accidents and deaths if we compare this Croatian example to the last event in the Red Sea then we realize what our responsibility in the Parliament is when we say that one of the public interests is the safety of passengers and sailors. And that's why when we talk about it then we ask the question when we know the fact that Croatian state shipmen and private shipowners have achieved the public interest that has been sent through such laws, then we have to and admit that I would say the result of the realisation of public interest. And we must respect them. And that's why priority concessions are important. Because then, as Parliamentarians, we fight to protect the safety of passengers and seamen. Furthermore, the question remains that the Secretary of State is constantly telling us to start liberalisation with this law. That's not true. And so far, the law has done it. 14 lines are reached by competition. 14 versus a total of 46% of state lines are achieved by competition and the tender means liberalisation, meaning private competition, does not mean monopoly. The question remains that here we have reason to believe that this was done on the basis of a procurement contest rather than a concession. All right, that's technical grooming. But you will allow, liberalisation in Croatia exists and we are trying to send the world a message "No, we do not have liberalisation in maritime transport and along coastal and line transport.". That's not true. 30% of the lines are privatized. And that's the answer if we want to keep going. "Yes," as well as in such a process of liberalisation that has been implemented so far, we have positive results. We have a more quality connection to the islands, we have greater pleasure of passengers, we have greater satisfaction from our guests. Do we have a chance to increase the number of these lines? We do. Here, my colleague said the Zadar-Ancon line was lifted. Do we need to get her back? We do. You know what the islanders keep saying? I want the night line. What's the problem with bringing them in? And there's an immediate answer, is probably the problem island island very weak, very weak development lines. Do we have to bring them in? Yeah. So, without thinking, we have ten new lines that can and should only be awarded through a concession tender. Ten new lines. You know what that means? We have 43% of the liberalized market. Just 10 new lines. Has the objective of liberalisation been achieved? Well, it is. We've reached almost 50% of the lines we have liberalized. But what we say, given that we have responsible shipmen, since we have the quality of transport, the safety of passengers, on those lines that have been achieved so far, let's ensure a priority concession. Here, even a little snide Mr. Secretary is trying to say "The SDP club wants to protect only classical ship transport and wants to protect ferry ship transport.". No, that's our proposal because there's been no competition on those lines so far. We didn't have the courage to say that what has been liberalized so far will be renationalized and monopolized. We didn't have the courage. If that's what the secretary wants, we don't mind. Because the 14... the shipping lines that were in the contest, which is liberalisation if the State Secretary assesses that on behalf of the Government he wants to do so his right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we'd be happy to suggest that. But he can't ask the club that he keeps calling against the game, that we're fighting against a simple priority concession, and what it hasn't been so far, I'd say it's been awarded by some kind of contract, some kind of law, but it's been secured on the market. It's something that we didn't have the courage to be called "probably" commies who don't know what a market economy is. But we don't mind him suggesting it, that the government propose it to everyone. Why? Because public interest through the transport and safety of passengers and sailors has shown that it can be done. And we just leave it to the government and I'd say the hard move. And there's a reason why we only suggested lines related to ferry and classical transport, because they weren't on the market. And 30% of that has been achieved so far. As you can see, when the cards are opened, when we speak soberly, then we simply can't play with individual flossules, individual messages, I'd say outwitting. And then we defend Jadrolini, but only on 27 lines. The seven lines will go to the competition as the others will. Why? Well, because she won them in the contest. So we're holding some kind of competition, we're holding that level of liberalisation. But why take two lines away from her in the Sibenik archipelago? Because he's got old ships. Who's to blame? This Parliament and the government. It's our fault. ... No, I don't have anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The former government. No problem, former government, ex-consumption. If that clears your conscience, we don't mind but don't take away two lines because that means we'll simply send sailors on those two lines home. Because we didn't invest in Jadrolini. We hated her. You'll do it, say it. If you think that's the reason. But there's what doesn't take their job away. Because if you take away their jobs, you'll tie up that old ship, but ask yourself, how many people are working on that old ship? And that's what we say. 30% bigger game, 10 new lines for which we'll all come out tonight or Wednesday and that's 43% of the game. But those who do quality work now don't take their jobs away from them. And then she's the hardest... The waist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian economy, Croatian sailors. Most of the policy in this House said: Respect the priority concession. Respect. The government keeps saying, "No. Who advises her? Who's she... The waist isn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The economy isn't. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Politicians in this House all say, "Don't do this! And the government insists on that. What? What's the point? For what? Is that what we're wondering? Tomorrow we have to raise our hand for it. Therefore, with these changes, we will satisfy everyone with these amendments. We'll settle for everything. Everything. It remains a question of our responsibility that with such a bill we can really push money towards private Croatian shipmen and towards Jadrolinija. Because if we don't, Europe doesn't touch us in this law, but it will touch us in the implementation of the Competition Act and it will touch us in subsidies. And that's what Europe will control. And we won't be able to invest that easily in Jadrolini.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56521	Thank you. And another correction to an incorrect quote. And that's what we're gonna end up with. Dear Representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56522	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I have to admit that forgetfulness is a bad thing, so I have to correct your incorrect assumption that you're up for a game. I'm just reminding you that as chairman of the INA Supervisory Board, you lifted the margins with all the private pumps that in most cases failed, failed except for the margin clearly to you close to Euro-Petrol who then bought them cheaply. When they failed. Thank you. So much for market games.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56523	Thank you. So we'll continue at 3:00 with the vote with the points discussed. And with this point Wednesday, it is a respected representative, Miljenko Doric, on Wednesday. We now move to a vote on the final proposal for a Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport. Previously, we have a proposal from the SDP Representatives' Club proposing that a conclusion be adopted, that this final bill should be followed by a third reading. Minister Calmeta, please be clear on this proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56525	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, we don't think there's any need to go into third reading for the reason that everything that has been disputed about this law has been brought into line with all the interested parties. It is also with the Union of the Seafarers of Croatia and with the Association of Shipowners "Mare nostrum" and with the Island Council who have all supported this law and this amendment, which I will explain afterwards, and it is 5 amendments that are key to this Act. Therefore, if the Federation of Croatian Seafarers agrees to what he wrote and said in writing at the press conference, if this proposal is agreed with the law and the shipowners' association “Mare nostrum” and if it is agreed with this law, if they agree and the island council I think there is no absolute reason for this law to be prolonged or go into third reading with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56526	Thank you very much. I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Please engage. I'm asking for a result. 22 for, 12 abstentions, 67 against the proposal for a conclusion. The conclusion has not been reached. Now we're going to vote on the amendments. First we have a vote. The government submitted five amendments after the deadline. In accordance with Article 166 of the amendments are submitted after the expiry of the deadline, it is necessary to discuss and vote on whether the amendments will be taken into account. Please engage. Who is it for these amendments to be taken into account in the debate and vote of these five amendments to the government that they are? Please vote. I'm asking for a result. With 84 votes for, 4 abstentions and 7 against these amendments will be considered. Minister Calmett, please here. We're now going to the amendment of one government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56527	In this amendment, we propose that in Article 19(2) to replace the word of four members with the words of six members, i.e. to add one representative proposed by the Shipowners' Association and one representative proposed by the Croatian Maritime Union as to what to say, so we propose that the Administrative Council for agencies be extended to coastal maritime transport by another 2 members and that there are then 4 members of 6 members with the saying of one of the Orders of the Shipowners' Association, and one of the rows of the Croatian Maritime Unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56528	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Only club representatives can participate in the debate. SDP club respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56529	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. That article that is here before us now presented we are discussing at the same time as the Prime Minister spoke about the anti-corruption programme. You will allow the Agency's Administrative Board to come up with an expert body to make responsible decisions on the award of concessions. It's supposed to be a profession. A little while ago, the minister said we had a deal with trade unions and employers. How did they make a deal? To be suggested by people who are personally interested in entering a professional body. An employer's representative enters our professional body, and he may be an expert, and he may belong to a shipping company. That one can't be professional. It will be personally interested in a conflict of interest. The worker will also be from a company. He'll be objective. It can't be. That's unacceptable. He is in a double role and a representative of his firm and a representative of the union and whether he will work professionally. He won't. Gentlemen, let's not do this. This is a store. Here we are offered a trade in a body that must be absolutely professional. He's getting suspicious of the agency's work, he's throwing suspicions. This amendment is unacceptable, and therefore the SDP is really asking you, let us not appeal to do so. They cannot contribute to professional work, and simply cast doubt on those documents the minister spoke of. So that's the result of the goods trade, not the improvement of the agency's work. Let's not do this!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56530	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for this amendment. Government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 72 for, 10 abstentions, 20 against. This amendment has been adopted and has become an integral part of the law. Gentlemen, please be quiet! Amendment two. Minister, here you go, amendment number two. Now, stay focused.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56531	I didn't say we had a deal first. It's a deliberate distortion of words, but I said that we proposed this amendment together, that we agreed on it. I propose amendment number two in which the following point 3 of Article 28(1) is inserted after the word customs duty. So there's no way the replacement ship can be foreign anymore. Here, we have also put this in paragraph 1 of point 5. it is changed and said that all members of the crew of the Croatian citizens who have contracted to work with the ship, and it is based on minimum working and social standards established between shipowners and seamen. Here, these were suggestions from the council. That's what union representatives and shipowners think, so we've installed it in Amendment number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56532	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56533	Dear Mr. President, this government amendment passed an amendment to the HSP's Club of Representatives which was one of four of our key amendments under this Act. According to our court, there was an unacceptable provision in the Law that sailors from the countries of the European Union and, in general, any foreign shipmen could compete on Croatian ships for jobs. It is good that the government has noticed this failure and that, by handing over such an amendment, it has adopted the HSP amendment. I only think that it would be necessary, and that also concerns this previous amendment, as soon as possible, to determine who the representative representatives of the shipowners are so as to facilitate the conclusion of a collective contract and to carry out all other tasks concerning this Act, so our club supports this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56534	Next, respected representative of Dragutin Lesar, the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56535	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment is partly in the same content as mine. So, this amendment to the government by its content is much like the amendment that I have submitted, but only three keywords are different, Mr. Minister. A contract in work and a written contract. Namely the Croatian Labour Legislative... oral and written labour contracts, and given the international standards, the written contract is very important in the context of evidence of the dispute possibly by presence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And secondly, reached or established working standards have been left out by collective agreement. Why does it matter? If in your amendment, it was a collective contract or contracts, then we are well-known both partners or representatives of shipowners and seamen, and here there is the possibility of abuse of words before authorised representatives of shipowners and seamen, while collective agreements know exactly who can determine the working standards in the regulations. So, by leaving out the word "written" and "collective agreements" you obviously didn't appreciate even... who warn again this day in their letter. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56536	I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment number two of the Government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 82 for, 3 abstentions, 13 against. The second amendment of the government was adopted with the majority. Amendment three to the government. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56537	In the amendment three, i.e. in Article 29, we have amended paragraph 1 which now reads, we propose that when a concession is given, priority is given by a shipowner, the first one who has offered a higher concession fee on a given line, does not seek support or require a lower level of support," so that is one condition. Another who, as a company, carries out public transport for a longer period of time. This is one of the key items which, as a company, has a longer time period of public transport and a third that has less age and greater comfort. Here, in any case, these amendments valorise the company's experience as one of the important priority foundations of the quality of navigation security and the conditions for obtaining a concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56538	Thank you. First, the SDP representative club, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56539	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP club believes that this is not well defined, and we are surprised that the social partners have accepted such a proposal. Why? Here we're saying that the administrative board will be an expert body that will evaluate the ship's ship's quality. A high-quality shipowner can be if he has executed contracts in quality so far, contracts with the Croatian state. Thus, we have made it very clear that this refers to shipmen sailing in our seas who have been correct to both the state and to the county or to a lower concession, while at the same time eliminating shipowners who are submerging ships and do not have a replacement ship and are not responsible for concession contracts. But of course we're not interested in the profession, we're not interested in the job done, we're just trying to insert the formulations to make the deal that was reached with the social partners so well accepted. If you had done any professional work here, you would have suggested very clear shipmen who have done quality work according to previous concessions or any other contract regardless of whether with state or local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56540	Honorable representative Tonci Tadic, Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56541	Dear Mr. President, this amendment is actually followed by the HSP amendment, which said that the condition for the award of concessions is an experience in public transport in line coastal transport in the Croatian territorial sea for at least 3 years. Here with this kind of formulation, which I believe is quite well-intentioned, I hope it is entirely well-intentioned that all this is done together in the Croatian territorial sea, it is in fact intended to make a certain filter when new boaters enter the Croatian market that those best lines cannot get just as well as that they have to pass a certain test deadline. It's the intensity of a written article like this that he must have a longer period of time, we're even... it is at least 3 years old not to be two years apart for one year, but what is here with this formulation very badly done is the possibility of entering someone with experience in carrying line transportation outside Croatian waters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With all due respect, that's not good. I'd like to ask for the minister's testimony. Could he be added as a minister through his powers as an article like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56542	For the HSS Club, the respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56543	Mr. President! Mr. Minister, both for the HSS Club in principle and one, and two, and three are fine. However, we also hold that it is very important to state that those shipmen who have already done orderly business with the state that they must be defined and in point 2 absolutely must stand for a very clear definition in Croatian territorial waters. And, of course, for three years, it would be an appropriate deadline because it does not have to be interpreted like this but it can be interpreted as being a foreign shipman who has experience in Greece. So, absolutely, Mr. Minister, we're looking for an indication that this amendment 3 is fully defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56544	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 3. Government. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? The amendment passed with 70 votes for, 6 abstentions and 24 against. Amendment 4. Government. Minister, here's your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56545	Article 2 of this Act states that public transport in public line coastal maritime transport is in the following text: public transport is the transport of passengers, cargo and vehicles in the internal sea and the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia. So let each time he writes public transportation write in the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia because it is clear in Article 2 that it is in the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment 4, this is Article 46. In that amendment, we reject what it said: "exceptionally if, in the case of paragraph 2 of this article, there is no interested domestic concession shipr, the concession can be temporarily given to a foreign shipowner whose ships extend the flag of the EU Member State". It's being thrown out with this amendment, so there's no more of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56546	Thank you. HSP club Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56547	Your Honor, Mr. President! With this amendment, the government accepted the amendment of the HSP Club because we asked precisely to remove foreign competition from Croatian cabotage when it comes to line coastal transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56548	I'm closing the debate. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote on Amendment 4. The result? With 87 votes for, 4 abstentions and 9 against the proposed amendment. Amendment of the 5th Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56549	Here, to avoid speculation about whether Jadrolini goes into privatisation, it doesn't go, when it goes, the way it goes here we say it loud and clear. The privatisation of the Jadrolinia of the company for the liner maritime transport of passengers and cargo of Rijeka can only be carried out by special law after the award of concessions for all state lines in accordance with the provisions of this law. So, if Jadrolini is to be privatized, it will be a special law to be discussed by this House, when and if it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56550	I'm opening a debate. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56551	Thank you very much. The HSS club has just been an amendment specifically required that only a special law to be passed in the Croatian parliament can if there is any need to approach the privatisation process of Jadrolinia. Therefore, we hold that this is how our amendment was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56552	HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56553	Your Honor, Mr. President, our amendment has requested that this article be simply deleted. We felt that it was not necessary for the article defining liner shipping to speak at all about the possible privatisation of Jadrolinija, but would agree with such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56554	Let's get on with it. I'm putting it to the vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56555	Well, I'm glad to hear that the amendments of the Croatian Democratic Community have been accepted as the gentleman has said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56556	I am voting on this amendment to Government Number 5. The result? 83 for, 6 abstentions and 6 against Amendment No. 5. Government. Now, please, let's get the amendment plate. Minister, go ahead! Amendment 1 to Biserka Perman's First Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56557	This amendment cannot be accepted, unfortunately, because it is not necessary to supplement the article since the duration of the journey results from the mandatory time of departure and arrival at port and as defined in Article 4 of this Act in point 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56558	She's a representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56559	Thank you very much. Namely, I think this article should, this text should be completed in order to make it easier and more transparent to publish the order of navigation on lines with a higher frequency especially in short relations so that passengers can immediately see how long it takes for them to know what the observation and shipowners are and according to the needs and requirements of the users. Well, here, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56560	There's a vote to vote on. Please, let's get on with it. Who's in favour of this amendment? To vote. The result? 28 for, 3 abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2nd Amendment of the HSP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56561	We cannot accept this amendment because already this makes it impossible for us to do so by the State Support Act of the State Aid Regulation, the regulations on maritime transport and shipbuilding and the same would be contrary to the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States. So we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56562	The club of HSP MPs, the respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56563	Dear Mr. President, we still believe this amendment is necessary. We do not consider it good for Croatia to encourage the construction of ships in other people's shipyards. We need to encourage or encourage nothing or encourage construction in domestic trafficking. As for the SAA, an exception can always be made when it comes to public interest. The Public Procurement Act could also be made an exception until we join the European Union for certain parts. We are asking for this to go to the vote, and we feel that this amendment is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56564	Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 20 for it. Six abstentions. 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSP?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56565	This amendment can also not be accepted because, to be classified on the same line, it is to be classified as different lines of meaning it is not accepted but at the same time there is no obstacle under the proposed law to introduce, if necessary, a more frequent number of additional lines on that route, provided that this same local self-government co-finances that frequent number, number of lines. If you'd get on the state line to the boater, the boater who got the concession... A further shipowner for public transport on the same route as the shipowner who received the concession in that case would come out clearly, it is clear to all in one more unfavourable position. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56566	The club of HSP MPs, the respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56567	Your Honor, Mr. President, it is actually a fundamental question in this law. If a certain line finds that a larger number of departures are needed, can we introduce on that line another shipman who might be driving the same without compensation? Why not? I don't see the need for that, then, that line, that supplement line, to be transferred to another place on the same island? For example, if Jelsa needs to be made or there's a desire for someone to drive another line for Jelsa, why doesn't he drive but he has to drive for Vrbovska? I really don't see any reason and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56568	Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 23 for. Five abstentions. 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4. HSP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56569	Well, I think we've discussed this amendment and it's embedded in the government's amendment. So I think here you can give up that amendment. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56570	Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go, on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56571	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Mr. President. We could withdraw this amendment if Mr. Minister would accept our request that, in Article 29 that we have already discussed and the amendment that we have already discussed, I will repeat the provisions on the experience of carrying out line coastal transport and point out once again in the Croatian territorial sea. It's just those three words. Where does it say? That's not in Article 29, Mr. Secretary of State. ... /Intruder: Article 2 writes./ [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56572	Madam Secretary and Captain hold back.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56573	There's a minister who'll answer. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56574	It says in Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56575	In Article 28? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following [[Intruder: 2, 2.]] We withdraw on condition that you do so with sublegal acts in the concession. Thank you. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56576	Thank you. Amendment 4 withdrawn. Amendment 5. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56577	This amendment cannot be accepted because the Coastal Line Transport Agency is incorporated into the law. In the first reading, all the clubs supported it. They agree with this and the social partners and the shipowners' association along with the amendment that we discussed here at the beginning. That means it increases with an additional two members. I don't think there's any need for that amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56578	Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56579	Thank you very much. I cannot withdraw and must not withdraw this amendment because I have submitted it on behalf of the Croatian Maritime Union, which, by letter of 7 March this year, Mr. Minister, by writing to your Secretary of State under point 3 and remains at the position that it could have been avoided and had to avoid the establishment of this agency and it is not true that we supported this agency in our first reading because you were against our proposal for a law governing the Adriatic. And I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56580	Thank you. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote on Amendment 5. The result? 20 for it. Three abstentions. 61 against. The amendment was not accepted. Amendment number 6. HSP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56581	We do not accept this amendment, although it is, in part, adopted by the government. By accepting Amendment No 8. In Article 17, Article 17 of the HDZ Representatives Club is complemented by the new paragraph 2: The Agency may, at the request of the County, Municipal and City Headship, with the compensation of the contract, carry out certain tasks referred to in point 1 of this Article for county, interstate and local lines. The proposed option is to enable county, municipal or urban headships, in view of their lack of expertise, to be able to carry out specific professional and technical tasks, with the basis of the contract, to verify the performance, trust in the professional service of the Agency. Here, this is how the question in Amendment No was arranged. 6 point group of HSP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56582	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56583	Dear Mr. President, our amendment has one fundamental purpose, and this is to detect the inability for every county to derail a very high-quality team that would oversee the award of concessions and control of the implementation of concessions, that and these county lines on behalf of the county, are supervised by the Central State Agency. And now, however, we are facing a procedural obstacle. So, why would the minister be more acceptable to the HDZ Club amendment that is later in the procedure than the HSP Club amendment which is somewhat earlier in the procedure, which is the same. So, come on, let's accept the amendment and then we'll vote maybe later on for the HDZ amendment. As for the Agency’s headquarters, we also felt it would be good if the Agency had its regional departments in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split and Dubrovnik. You will probably have to implement some sublegal acts, because it will be difficult to lead from one center. And also, with this I think we would finally remove the tensions that exist on the river-Zadar, l Zadar-Split, Split-Rijeka route. This is how everyone would get their share of maritime surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56584	There's a vote to vote on. Who's in favour of this amendment? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 14 for, 7 abstentions, 65 against. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment to the 7th Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56585	The amendment is accepted. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56586	Ladies and gentlemen, I can't hear, no one can hear. I would suggest that, looks like we're going to have to interrupt the vote to get the MPs, to die, because you can't, believe me, you can't hear it. It's a wrong vote, it's obvious, it's already visible. Don't follow, one part doesn't follow anything. Amendment 8. Seven accepted. Amendment of the 8th HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56587	Amendment 8 is accepted. The explanation is in line with the explanation of Amendment No 6...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56588	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment to the 9th Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56589	We do not accept this amendment as such, but it has been partially adopted through the HDZ Amendments Club. Namely, by supplementing Article 17 in accordance with Amendment 8. The HDZ Representatives Club is partially fenced by the number 9. HSP representative club, i.e. the Agency shall be able to carry out certain technical and technical tasks on the county and local lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56590	So what do you say now? Do you accept it or do you not accept it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56591	We withdraw Amendment 9 because it was adopted with Amendment 8. But you could have calmly adopted Amendment 6 in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56592	Amendment 9 withdrawn. Amendment 10 to the representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56593	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56594	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56595	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56596	It becomes an integral part of the law. 12. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56597	This amendment shall not be accepted immediately because it has again been partially adopted by Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56598	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56599	Amendment 12 withdrawn. Amendment 13. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56600	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56601	It becomes an integral part of the law. We now have Amendment 14 and the MP is no longer represented, Representative Frana Piplojic. ... You can't... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56602	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56603	And we can't vote on an amendment to someone who's no longer a representative. ... The amendment has been withdrawn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I beg your pardon, colleague? What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56604	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted in time. It was submitted before the debate was concluded, so you can't say you can't vote No, he can't be pulled. [[/Intruder: He's been withdrawn.]] So there must be a vote, Mr. President, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56605	Don't throw... In the market, he's having a discussion. [[For the president's bell, the speaker can't be heard.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56606	So, the amendment was brought in on time. Right? It was submitted by the person who had the status of counsel at the time. It must be voted, it cannot be decided by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56607	The amendment was submitted in time by a representative who was represented. Now that person has lost his capacity as an agent, and we cannot vote on an amendment to a representative who is no longer a representative. And we won't vote on him. 15. SDP counseling club. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56608	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56609	Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56610	The SDP tried to protect the most and...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56611	Wait a minute, gentlemen, if you'd better follow the paper during the vote, it'll be more concentrated, and the ladies. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56612	The SDP has tried to protect high-quality Croatian shipmen who have done a good job for many years, regardless of whether they received it under the concession agreement or received it by some other contract, and by the law of the former. And the SDP also wanted to protect seamen from having further work through a priority concession, not losing jobs because of certain market games. I would like to make it very clear that even on the letter of the seamen to which the minister is invited, he made it very clear that we wish to point out that no agreement has been reached. ... agreed between the shipowners' and the ministry's association, but continue to regret that the priority concession issue that would solve concerns about the fate of sailors in Croatian companies has not been resolved. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] That's why the SDP is asking for a vote on the amendment because we think that we'll be the best way to address the demands of one of the... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56613	Thank you. Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 22 for, 4 abstentions, 64 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment to the 16th Representative of the Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56614	Unfortunately, this amendment cannot be accepted because the law will define the criteria that will then be included in the tender under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56615	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56616	Thank you very much. Therefore, it would be correct for the criteria for determining and the way in which the concession fee is paid, the way in which the price of services and the criteria for determining support should be except in the decision to grant concessions under Article 34(2) and its paragraph 2 to be contained in the decision to call a public tender in order for the applicant to know in advance the conditions under which he will operate after the concession has been obtained, so as not to be vague, so I would ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56617	We can vote. Let's get on with it. To vote. Score. 22 for, 5 abstentions, 65 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 17 by MP Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56618	This amendment cannot be accepted because all the essential elements which represent the conditions to be met by the tenderer of the concession bid are contained in Article 27 and Article 28 of the Law specify the conditions which must be met by the legal and natural person to carry out the activity in the submission of the concession bid.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56619	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56620	Thank you very much. I think that, that Mr. Minister's argument is unacceptable because this amendment is only required, so you see in Article 27, the decision to open a public tender contains particularly the conditions to be met by the shipowner when receiving the concession, and this amendment speaks of what must be met, what conditions must be met by the applicant of the offer. So that an offer for a concession can't be contacted by someone, let's say, under quotes that don't meet any conditions. So he defines exactly that. Therefore, a person must meet certain conditions when applying for a concession, and the second question is what he must fulfil when the contract is concluded. That is what is said here and I therefore believe that, if we want to define the terms of the law, this amendment should be adopted. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56621	Please vote. Let's get on with it. To vote. Score. 20 for, 2 abstentions and 65 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Eighteenth Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56622	We do not accept this amendment because this, these amendments are actually accepted, or... Governments this topic arranged, so I think here's even a way to give up on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56623	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56624	Amendment 18 withdrawn. Amendment of 19th Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56625	We do not accept this amendment because collective bargaining stems from trade union rights. It is also arranged by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56626	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56627	Ministers, you are right that collective bargaining is the subject of social partners, but you are wrong that the second amendment to the government has resolved my proposal for an amendment. Because in my amendment, it clearly calls for the standards set out in the collective agreement as your amendment speaks of standards. Croatian labour legislation knows only one type of document of bipartite way of conclusion in which labour and social standards are established, which is a collective contract. I simply cannot believe that you cannot accept an amendment that is in line with the Labour Act, which speaks of shipowners and employee representatives establishing labour standards by collective agreement. Which document differently, how do we call it so we know what it is and what association has the right to sign that standard? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56628	We can vote. Please, let's get on with it. Score. 12 for, 5 abstentions, 59 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 20. Government is an integral part of the law. Amendment 21, nothing is the representative of former Frana Piplovic, but it is the same amendment as before. The amendments that are coming. 22nd Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56629	Unfortunately, this amendment cannot be accepted because this issue has been resolved by the amendment of the Government on the 20th addition of Article 28(3), which removes the possibility that a tender can be contacted by an applicant who has no ship or boating experience. So it's clearly said in Amendment 20. Governments can't contact anyone who doesn't have a ship and who doesn't have a boating experience. So it has to be a company, it has to be. etc. anything in amendment 20 proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56630	Representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56631	The government probably thanks and I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56632	Amendment withdrawn 22. Amendment of the 23rd Representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56633	We do not accept this amendment because this issue has been resolved by Amendment 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56634	Representative Lesar. Amendment withdrawn. 24. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56635	We can also not accept this issue because it is regulated by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56636	Amendment 24 withdrawn 25, Agent Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56637	We cannot accept this because this issue has been resolved by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56638	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56639	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56640	Amendment 25 withdrawn. Amendment 26 of Dragutin Lesar's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56641	We do not accept this amendment because this issue has already been resolved by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56642	Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56643	The minister's right. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56644	Amendment 26 withdrawn. Thank you. 27 representatives of Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56645	And we cannot accept this amendment because this issue has also been resolved by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56646	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56647	No, this question was not resolved by the government's amendment. This is something else because it says right here, so the advantage of giving concession is the shipowner who offered a larger concession fee on a particular line. He does not ask for support, but he asks for less, I apologize, therefore, after a public tender in the case of two or more identical offers, the shipowner who has already carried out the same transport on the same line has the advantage of awarding the concession. It is a fundamentally different amendment than the government has given, and therefore I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56648	Please vote. Let's get on with it. The result? Here, 23 for, 3 abstentions, 62 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 28 HSP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56649	We do not accept this amendment because of the addition of Article 17(2) to the new paragraph 2 through the adoption of Amendment No 8. This isn't possible...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56650	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56651	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56652	Amendment 28 withdrawn. 29th Representative of the Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56653	This amendment cannot be accepted. The sub-legislative act of the Government referred to in Article 39 of the proposed Law will define the elements of the decision and thus the method of payment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56654	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56655	She wouldn't exactly agree with Mr. Secretary. In fact, I think it would be correct and logical for the text, except for the way in which the concession fee is paid, to be given a way of paying for support, not just criteria. In this way, the text of the Law would be unequivocally precise in order to avoid unnecessary disagreements and difficulties during the operation of the concession authority, regardless of the sublaws. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56656	Please vote. Let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 23 for, 1 abstention, 64 against. He didn't get the need for most of it. 30th Representative of the Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56657	We cannot accept this amendment because it is undeniable that the concession agreement will define the way in which the support is paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56658	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56659	Well, since it's actually the same problem as in the previous amendment and it's not accepted. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56660	Thank you. Amendment 30 withdrawn. 31. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56661	so we cannot accept because this amendment is essentially governed by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56662	Representative, the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56663	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56664	Amendment 31 withdrawn. Amendment to the 32nd Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56665	We don't accept the amendment. The explanation was identical to that of Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56666	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56667	So since it is the same problem as in the first amendment, that is, Article 4 which is not accepted, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56668	Thank you. Retracted. 33 also representatives of Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56669	We do not accept with the reason that the navigation order is dependent on several factors, and the most important are the state budgets of the Republic of Croatia and the annual island programme. In addition, those deadlines prevent possible improvements in transport connection. So we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56670	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56671	Well, I can't agree with this minister's findings. Namely, a period of 60 days at the latest in which the order of navigation must be established after the alignment and before entry into force is not sufficient. A serious, responsible and market-oriented shipowner must have a defined navigation order one year before the entry into force of the same vessel in order to be able to enter the market in a timely manner. This is primarily true for the international and along the coastal lines and at tourist fairs and stock exchanges that have been held since the end of the previous year until the next year, the travel organiser will also be interested in the order of sailing in that year. For example, now for 2007. In particular, seasonal and final proposal of the Law states that the Agency is obliged to give consent to the order for navigation in the 2007 season by April 2007 at the latest, which is not logical. In addition, it is illogical that the Coastal Line Transport Agency gives consent to international lines when it does not grant concessions or provides support for them and what it gives at the last moment before the beginning of the season. In this way, preventing timely preparation of both shipowners and travel organizers and all tourism entities. Such solutions call into question the success of all tourism, which the minister who also minister of tourism would have to know. If tourism is one of... And then it must also be manifested in the provisions of this Law. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56672	Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 20 for, 3 abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 34, also represented by Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56673	We don't accept this amendment. The explanation is as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56674	Agent Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56675	So since it is related amendments, or the same reasoning and not previously accepted, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56676	Thank you. Amendment 34 withdrawn. The 35th Amendment of Representative Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56677	Well, we can't accept this amendment because opinions are not binding. This would allow the navigation order to be contrary to the views of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, I don't know, port administrations or port captains.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56678	Agent Perman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56679	The Agency shall agree only on the lines set out in Article 5 of this Act, i.e. only on domestic lines and not on international lines referred to in Article 2(2), and should therefore be deleted. If the wording would remain according to the proposal and without this supplement and opinion, under quotes, and opinions. Therefore, this supplement would turn out in addition to the County Chamber of Commerce if the port administration and the port captainate were to agree and propose a navigation order, which is in collapsing with paragraphs 1 and 2 of this same article. Well the article was also with the intensities to specify and explain the text of the article, so I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56680	Please vote. Let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 23 for, one abstention, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 36, also representatives of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56681	We do not accept this amendment, and the arguments are practically identical to those of Amendments 33 and 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56682	Agent Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56683	Well, he's similar, but he's not the same. The deadline of at least 30 days prior to the entry into force of which the Agency is obliged to unite and publish and deliver to the shipowners of the order of navigation, is far from sufficient even when it comes to the non-seasonal period, and in particular when it comes to the order of navigation for the season period, which we will soon see when this law enters into force and I, however, ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56684	Please vote. Let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 20 for, one abstention, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 37, HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56685	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56686	It becomes an integral part of the law. 38, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56687	We don't accept this amendment. The explanation is identical to that of Amendment 14 and Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56688	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56689	Since our proposal is not accepted regarding the priority concession that we consider best to protect the interest of sailors in shipping companies. There is no need to vote on this amendment either, so we withdraw it, but that is why the SDP will be against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56690	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 39, Agent Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56691	The amendment is not accepted. We've already explained the amendment to reason number 14, 15 and number 28.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56692	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56693	Same reason I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56694	Amendment withdrawn. 40, representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56695	We don't accept the amendment. We already had an explanation in the previous amendments 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56696	Agent Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56697	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, when you spoke and explained the government's amendments to the 5.4 of today, you said that among other things they were agreed with the Croatian Maritime Union. This same Maritime Union again writes a letter three days ago and regrets that no proposal has been adopted in their earlier views on the award of priority concessions and therefore I do not have the right to withdraw amendments and I request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56698	Please vote. The result? 22 for, 6 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 41, HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56699	We do not accept this amendment because it has already been consummated by the amendment of the Government, and in terms of privatisation... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56700	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56701	Retracted. 42, HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56702	We also do not accept, as it is arranged by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56703	Pulled 42. 43, Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56704	Same thing. It is not accepted because it is governed by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56705	Retracted 43. 44, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56706	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56707	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Minister. I'd like an HSP rep club, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56708	Mr. President, given the whole series of very controversial amendments, on behalf of the HSP Club, I request a 10-minute recess to agree on a vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56709	All right. Thank you. Ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session following a break requested by the HSP Representatives' Club, the Advocacy Club, on behalf of the Tonci Tadic club will submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56711	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of the Sea. In fact, one fundamental question is being raised here, which is the issue the ministry tried to resolve by this amendment three to Article 29, and we have also tried to resolve this on behalf of the HSP club by submitting amendments, but also by colleagues Antesic and colleagues from HSS. This is actually very clear, on our amendment, I will read it here once again, and that is that the condition for the award of concessions for public transport on state lines is an experience in public transport in the Croatian territorial sea for at least three years as a first and second to the advantage of having "Jadrolini" Rijeka and other shipmen performing liner shipping. counterpart Antesic, as I recall, asked for the advantage of the shipowners who are already carrying out the traffic on the line. Thus, by means of such a formulation proposed by the ministry in its amendment, three advantages are given by a company carrying out public transport for a longer period of time. I do not see what the difficulty is to stress here that it is a Croatian territorial sea and I do not see what the difficulty is to add another point, let's say point 4, which would be in the spirit of what the HSP club has proposed in its second part, which is that the advantage is given to shipmen already driving on that line or what counterpart Antesic asked for. What's the problem? There's no problem with that. Article 2 in paragraph 1 is very stretching and it can be extended to... which drives the Ancona-Split-Old City-Korcula line, in the same way, because they also drive part of the line traffic in our waters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I would ask you, Mr. Minister, that we do nothing else here but protect Croatian interests. All we want is that in Croatian territorial waters, coastal transport is carried out by Croatian shipmen, and this can be achieved by a clear filter that must have some experience in Croatian waters, in Croatian territorial waters in public transport, not public transport in Greece or in the Philippines, but in Croatian territorial waters as first and secondly, that the boaters who already drive that line have the advantage. My shipowner cannot enter until there is no experience in Croatian waters or Greek part of the Mediterranean or... part of the Mediterranean does not have any such water conditions as the Croatian part, and therefore I see no reason why stubbornly and persistently subdue those three words in the Croatian territorial sea here in point 2 of the amendment three submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, "in" is the fourth word. I also don't see any reason not to worry about the advantage of those who have already driven. That's the whole thing. We are in favour of having Croatian shipmen in our waters, and you do as you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-09-0.u56712	Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 68 votes for, 7 abstentions and 18 against, the Law on Transport was passed in line and occasional coastal transport in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. We can also vote with the keys. If I propose a motion to vote, then I can handle it. Let's get on with it. Please quorum. 95. So we have the quorum, so now we're going to give a vote proposal to include this point in the agenda. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. It shall be voted on to include this item in the agenda. Please peace, so you'll hear what's being voted on. The result? With 77 votes in favour, 13 abstentions and 22 against were included in the agenda point – a proposal for a decision to show confidence to Ana Lovrin on the conduct of the Justice Minister Thank you. I'm asking the Prime Minister to explain the proposal. Here you go, Prime Minister.
