ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63852	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. By applying the Security Services Act, this House adopted just over four years ago, it seems to me to have taken effect in March 2002. Therefore, the applicable law applies for four years and, during its application, some of its advantages and shortcomings have been demonstrated. Practice has shown that there are certain shortcomings in the applicable law that prevents its will and more effective change in practice, on the one hand, and on the other hand, at this moment after four years, it is shown that this is also being developed in other countries and international institutions, that such a law does not fully meet the standards of what is considered an EU standard, meaning the standard of the European Union and NATO standards in the field of security and intelligence system. The basic shortcomings of the applicable law, if we can summarise them in several basic points, are the territorial division of jurisdiction between the intelligence agency that now exists and operates abroad, the competence of activities abroad and the anti-intelligence agency for action in the Republic of Croatia which does not meet the concrete changes, then the reduced competence of the military-security agency above NATO standards and... the area of obligations of telecommunications operators with the consequences of the possibility of applying legal measures to covert surveillance of telecommunications and in a fairly uneven manner, i.e. in an inadequate manner, to carry out certain operational measures which, indeed, make it impossible to carry out effectively what is the task of security-intelligence services. [[You don't understand.]] So, starting from these specifics, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing now at the High House in the first reading, the adoption of a new Security and Intelligence System Act, retaining what was good in the existing law, building on the experience gained during this four-year application, proposing certain changes to its better and more consistent structure and how to meet these EU and NATO standards. That is why it should be said in this segment that this basic structure does not change in a significant way. So this law isn't even if you let me say so, it's not radical, it doesn't change from the ground and doesn't start from the beginning, it keeps what's good. The basic structure remains the same. At the top of the pyramid are the President of the Republic and Prime Minister, the Security Services Supervisory Council as a core political co-ordinator, then the Security Intelligence Supervisory Board, the National Security Council Office, the basic intelligence agencies, civil and military, then there are also controls that have been prescribed, laws that have been prescribed so far. This law in a somewhat different way and more thoroughly, perhaps more detailedly regulates the work of these bodies, their mutual relations and it attributes both fully and integrally this system and therefore the name of the law has been changed and is called the Security Intelligence System Act. What is a change of this law, which has been shown to be necessary to do, which is to bring intelligence agencies, intelligence services to the intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia at this operational level down to two, so to one civilian and one military. Simplifiedly, this means that it is proposed to unite the two agencies so far, the Anti-intelligence Agency and the Intelligence Agency into one in the Security Intelligence Agency of the Republic of Croatia. The government estimates that the unification of these two agencies will achieve multiple benefits in the field of efficiency and rationality of this system. Why? This only enables the unification of existing human, technical and financial resources and creates assumptions for raising the quality of work, uniquely communicating with partner services, eliminating capacity duplication and reducing costs and fully covering and realising security threats. In addition to this basic part of its protection of national security, security intelligence agencies have an important task in international cooperation, in cross-border and cross-border cooperation, which is particularly important in the case of the Republic of Croatia because of our geographical position and because of one transit position, so that such unification can also provide an appropriate response to security threats that are mostly cross-border and... nature as mentioned only organized crime, terrorism, corruption or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] trafficking in human beings,... [[She doesn't understand.]] Drugs, weapons and means of mass destruction, money laundering, etc. [[You don't understand.]] The military security agency, the military agency so far remains as an independent agency, so as the central service responsible for the collection of military-security intelligence. What is now a difference and what the practice has shown is that what is proposed by this law is that it enables this agency to act outside the area of military facilities, so it can collect security-intelligence data outside the military facilities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and that it can also collect these data directly now according to this bill, what is proposed by this law and abroad, but what is important and important to note is that it can do so exclusively to military persons, or to the employees of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. What is a newspaper with this proposed unification of the two civil services so far is the establishment of the Information System Security Institute and the definition of its section. It is envisaged to form as a central state body to carry out the technical tasks of information security which is being analysed, explored and defined by information security standards, of course starting both from our needs and from the EU standards of NATO which are already known and well-developed and... the standard safety certificate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is a newspaper remains a further operational technical centre for monitoring telecommunications, however, this operational technical centre is now detached from the system of the current anti-intelligence agency, i.e. from the future if... This proposal for the law of the security intelligence agency, so he becomes an independent body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it has so far been able to carry out in a technical sense only covert measures to monitor communication, but by seizing it as an independent body from the system of intelligence agencies, any possibility of abuse of the influence of security agencies, i.e. persons who have the authority to issue a warrant to this operational and technical centre, has been prevented. The operational technical centre shall continue to operate on the basis of the orders of authorised persons only, therefore, in the case of covert measures, covert surveillance of communications, this may solely be on the court's orders. This separation except for this one and... the sense of preventing the possibility of abuse allows the operational and technical centre to extend its powers and, in terms of the rationality and functionality of its technical skills systems, to be used for the purposes of the police and the state's attorney's office, including the BIAK, in particular from the roles played by these bodies in the fight against criminal offences, particularly the serious criminal offences of organised crime and corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was the lack of this Act, and what is now prescribed by this Law are the obligations of telecommunications operators to the national security of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. according to the security intelligence agencies, so their communication and relationship regarding the monitoring of the content of the talks, e-mail, the list of... , international transport, user locations etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have already said in the opening statement that the practice has shown that it is necessary to determine somewhat different powers of the head of the security services and of the court with regard to certain operational measures, i.e. secret measures. It has shown, indeed, that it is not necessary, on the orders of the Director-General, for the staff of the Security Service to seek and carry out an insight into the databases, certain registers in the state bodies, bodies that exercise public authority so that they can only do so by legitimateising themselves, so that there is no need for the Director's order. As regards the involvement of secret associates and their work, a voluntaryity has been prescribed with regard to communication with citizens when requested, when a serviced inquiry is being referred to and asking the citizen to give a specific statement, that is to say, that a specific information is prescribed, the obligation to legislate, the volunteer of contact and the obligation to record and sign the minutes by the person heard when that conversation takes place in the official premises and, in this way, removes the difficulties that were in practice, prevents possible abuses and protects the full security and human rights of citizens, who agree to the conversation, i.e. the provision of information. What is most important is where the most sensitive area of the human rights charter is possible, these are, of course, secret measures, covert control measures, the content of telecommunications, postal and other consignors, and how so far it has been prescribed by the law so far, these measures can continue to be carried out solely by order of the Supreme Court, so it is a reserved measure of judicial oversight. The Court shall determine and approve those measures for a period of 4 months. If the need to extend these measures is demonstrated, this must again be requested from the Supreme Court, in which case the Supreme Court shall decide in a Council of 3 Judges which may request further arguments. What is the change of this law and what... it has shown that there is no final time limit because the court approves that the court will also be able to seek further reasons, that in practice it is simply impossible to determine the final, need in fact for the duration of such a measure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A provision has been retained in exceptional and exceptional circumstances that it can be determined without a court order, but in that case it must, for a maximum period of 24 hours and requires additional court approval. What is a change to those measures relating to the covert surveillance of telecommunications data, i.e. the location of the users, the list of its consignees and the secret measures... The open-air shooting is a change and it is proposed that this no longer be necessary to order the President of the Court, pardon the Supreme Court's order for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These measures, in their own nature, are not such that it is necessary for the court to decide because they do not cease in this way to endanger fundamental human rights on the one hand, on the other hand, in a truly operational sense, technical terms significantly slow down the work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the amendment of this Act is that security intelligence agencies have been given the authority to ensure the safety and protection of their own employees, facilities and associates. Something like... Security houses, these are measures that apply exclusively to the security intelligence agencies themselves, their protection measures, and some other needs need to be determined as prescribed for all other users of those houses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have already said at the outset that, in addition to this proposal, the unification of the two civil services so far, with the exception of the separation of the operational technical centre from the composition of the security services, its formation as an independent body, and the establishment of the Information Security Institute and some changes and the detours of some other bodies that are important for the functioning and supervision of the security services, and in particular I think of the National Security Council and the advice for the coordination of security intelligence services. In this direction is an extended composition and new powers have been given to the National Security Council so that he is now in addition to the roles of guidance and supervision so far... the security services receive and extend the deliriousness because they are competent to consider and assess intelligence security threats, risks, and then consider the issue from the section of individual ministries, of course those that are important to security and make guidelines on how and ways to protect the interests of national security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the Council for the Coordination of Security Intelligence agencies, it is, of course, still a fundamentally co-ordinated, operational, expert body. Its composition is extended to the leaders of some services that are important for the operation of a system of repression and prevention of criminal offences such as police, customs, inspections, the State's Attorney's Office, as this highlights better integration, coordination and the role of all these factors at the operational technical level of the protection of national security and, of course, in the wider sense of the fight against organised crime and other serious criminal offences. The Office of the National Security Council also suffered major changes. The Office of the National Security Council, under the applicable law, has so far played a role in its essence as a specific administrative body or secretariat for the needs of the National Security Council and the Security Intelligence Coordination Council. These changes remain, however, stressing the role, importance and importance of this office in terms of professional supervision. It becomes a central supervisory body for service work and becomes a co-ordinated body, so it becomes our central body for national security and coordination towards EU and NATO standards. So there's this operational-coordinated role. As far as an important area is concerned, surveillance services remain the same. You don't even need to repeat it here for this speaker and it's in... Many times already pointed out, this is also said by all international documents and resolutions that in security services it is primarily if we can say what their role is to fight or fight against anything that could prevent anything that could endanger national security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this situation, human rights can be threatened. Therefore, such a system must have built-in effective mechanisms for the protection of human rights and for the control of possible violations of these rights. And this new bill contains the current line of control. There are four lines of control, so professional supervision is now carried out in the first place, so according to this bill through the Office of the National Security Council. There's a court order on classified measures, and I've talked about it before, which the Supreme Court approves. Then, parliamentary oversight and civil oversight. With regard to parliamentary oversight, parliamentary oversight is carried out and is primarily carried out through the Parliament or its Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. They remain in the important powers of this parliamentary committee so far, however, what is a newspaper and what is proposed by this law is that this parliamentary surveillance carried out through the Committee on National Security is such that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security can also seek and carry out direct supervision. As regards civil surveillance, the Civil Watch Council remains. In the Civil Watch Council, it is proposed to be primarily public life figures who have proved themselves to be prominent advocates of human rights in their work so far. With regard to the powers of the Civil Surveillance Council, this law also determines that it is considering the representations of citizens and associations. This is a newspaper because so far, under the applicable law of the Association, they have not been able to refer to the notions of citizens or associations that their rights have been compromised, the conduct of the Security Intelligence Service of the Civil Intelligence Council may be sought, it has the right to request and to demonstrate the heads of the Security and Intelligence Service. If it is not satisfied, or if it considers it necessary, it may directly listen to the directors and managers of the individual bodies of these services. If it is not satisfied, the Council may, if it is not satisfied, continue to request that direct supervision be carried out either through the Office of the National Security Council or through the Parliamentary Committee and, in that case, representatives of the Civil Surveillance Council shall be entitled to attend that surveillance. Let me just have one more note, a recession compared to the fact that in this particular section there was a lot of debate in the public view that the evaluation... Civil Watch Councils, in this sense, that the Civil Surveillance Council no longer has the possibility of direct supervision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She was prescribed... The law, however, had a lot of difficulties, doubts and difficulties in the work of security intelligence services because at times the powers of the council were also exceeded conditionally speaking this law prescribed power because the Civil Surveillance Council should act whenever there is an individual representation and complaints of citizens, so on individual occasions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why this bill now directs these powers to the Council by emphasising the Council and under this proposal the law may have direct supervision and its members may participate in direct supervision through any National Security Council Office, either through the relevant parliamentary committee. This would remove these difficulties on the one hand and, on the other hand, I must say, in some ways also direct the conduct and civil oversight in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe. Of course, we should pursue the highest standards, but the fact is that when it comes to civil surveillance, Croatia is and therefore we can be proud of one of the few countries which, apart from professional and parliamentary supervision, also has civil oversight. In addition to the Republic of Croatia, only Belgium and Portugal have this, however, in a somewhat different way, and they do not, however, have the right to direct supervision in such councils. So brief and important about this bill. The professional services that did this law have been consulting since 15 laws, and there are no rules. In fact, it turns out that smaller countries that tend to rationalise costs usually have one civilian service, of course it's not possible for large countries that can't handle it because of their size, so they put it under the authority of a ministry. In some countries, for example, there are new democracies, such as Slovakia or the Czech Republic. This is the first bill of law. Of course, the government has proposed those solutions that it considers to be better, that it will contribute to better functioning of the security and intelligence system, better on the other hand to protect national security and at the same time protect human rights. This is the first reading and, of course, suggestions, suggestions and remarks and criticisms to be made by the parliamentary board and MPs can contribute to the improvement of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63853	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63854	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed at the 63rd session held on 28 March 2006 the Proposal for a Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 22 March 2006. The applicant's representative met the board members with the proposed paper of the law in question in relation to the existing law regulating the area of security services. Specifies how they apply... the law, and in particular under the conditions of increased security needs and expectations of security services, certain legal shortcomings have been observed which have a serious impact on the efficiency, safety of service work and hence their rationality and economicity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this respect, the proposed legislation in question offers new solutions which address identified shortcomings, in particular in the area of territorial and functional jurisdiction of security services, in the area of the application of the basic methods of work and in the field of human resources management. The proposed law fully prescribes all the components of the security and intelligence system, their detour and mutual relations, the tasks and powers of security intelligence agencies, the organisation and management of agencies, and the supervision of them. In the discussion conducted by the Committee members other than the principle of acceptance of confirmation that the proposed law complies with the safety standards and requirements of this time, they highlighted the comments and suggestions on some of the solutions offered. Proposals and comments were recorded by the representatives and... and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider the same as the Proposer until the law in question has been sent to another reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee supported the position of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and assessed that this legislative proposal fully regulates the security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia as an essential part of the national security system. Therefore, following the debate, the Committee decided to propose the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: The proposal for a Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63855	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. President Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63856	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities considered this law as an interested working body. In accordance with its section of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee has specifically analysed the solutions proposed in relation to the supervision of the work of security intelligence agencies, which should, in the debate, be such as to contribute to the achievement of the Constitution of guaranteed protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to prevent, to the greatest extent possible, the possible abuse of specific powers given to national security in order to effectively protect national security. It is the Committee's assessment that the proposal for a law represents progress in relation to the current legislative solutions, in particular when it comes to organisational and conceptual solutions, but that certain provisions, in particular those governing the parliamentary, civil surveillance of the work of security intelligence agencies, should certainly be developed in order to achieve satisfactory regulation in this area. In view of the debate at one of the Committee's meetings on the work of security services, the 15th session, members of the Committee specifically pointed to the importance of harmonising sublegal acts with systems and laws. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia finds that the Constitutional Court decides on the compatibility of the law with the Constitution and on the consent of other regulations with the Constitution and the law, and asks the question of who and how can raise the question of compliance of the Security Service Regulations with the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia, given that it is classified acts, in particular in cases where those acts are adopted only by the directors of the agencies without the consent of another supervisory authority, as set out in this Proposal of the Law. Therefore, as pointed out in the debate, it is necessary to consider the provision of Article 63(2). Proposal for a law under which the SOA Internal Order Regulation is adopted by the SOA Director. A Regulation on the Internal Order of the VSOA shall be adopted by the Minister of Defence on the proposal of the Director of VSOA. As also established in the Security Services Act, the rules on the internal order of the Intelligence Agency and the Anti-intelligence Agency shall be adopted by the Government on a proposal from the Director of the Agency, with the agreement of the President of the Republic and the Internal Order Regulation of the Military Security Agency shall be adopted by the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, with the consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the members of the Committee of the Committee shall be of the opinion that it would be good to keep that provision. The same applies to the adoption of a Regulation on the mode of security intelligence and other sublegal acts. With this proposal for SOA and VSOA laws, the SOA law, and the PSOA are adopted by the directors of the agencies. That, while the Act on the Security Services of the Republic of Croatia found that the regulations on the way of the security operation were adopted by the Director of OA and POA, with the agreement of the Security Service Coordination Council. While the Regulation on the mode of security of operation of the VSA is adopted by the Minister of Defence on the proposal of the Director of the VSA and with the agreement of the Security Service Coordination Council. And in this, and in this law, this provision could be maintained and you could assign the Office of the National Security Council to give consent to the adoption of these regulations. So it's about how the rules are made. The proposal has been tabled that those security intelligence agencies acts should also be presented to the Assembly Committee responsible for national security in view of its role in the surveillance system of security intelligence agencies as well as other bodies authorised to monitor the work of those agencies because this is a presumption of effective supervision. As regards the provision of Article 104(4), paragraph 4, which provides that the work of the Committee of the Croatian Parliament responsible for national security is chaired by a representative from the ranks of the most representative opposition party, it is said in a formal sense that it represents a newspaper, but not a fundamental change, because for the Committee's work and decision-making work, it is not so important that the Committee is chaired by a majority of the members of the Committee that should respect that fact. It is also expressed the opinion that the powers of the Civil Surveillance Council of the Security Intelligence Agency have been significantly reduced and concern only the consideration of the representations of citizens and intelligence agencies. It is proposed that the statement in the provision of Article 110(7) which speaks of the participation of the representatives of the Civil Surveillance Council in the supervision carried out by the Committee of the Croatian Parliament in charge of national security be changed so that the words "can take part" in replacing the words "will participate" in overseeing the exercise of supervision. The proposal has also been put forward to increase the powers of the Civil Watch Council in such a way that it can only initiate a surveillance procedure when there are doubts about the threat of citizens' rights. When it comes to the Committee responsible for national security, it is necessary to consider the proposal that this Committee, as a body of parliamentary supervision, be authorised to exercise supervision whenever it deems necessary and without prior notice. With regard to the work of the Office of the National Security Council, it is not clear why the Office would deliver its annual and extraordinary reports on its work, annual and extraordinary reports on the tasks of professional surveillance of the work of security intelligence agencies and of the operational and technical control centre for telecommunications to the President of the Croatian Parliament. For the purposes of this Decision, the following The proposal for a law provides that the security of the intelligence agency shall be reported by the President of the Republic, the President of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Government and the Office of the National Security Council in their work. Therefore, there is no reason not to inform the President of the Croatian Parliament of his work and the Office of the National Security Council. In connection with the tasks and powers of the Security Intelligence Agency, in particular when it comes to data collection referred to in Article 27(2), it is arranged that the conversation with citizens can be conducted only with their express consent and that they are recorded, and that citizens, by signing the minutes, confirm the volunteering of the talks, and the truthfulness and completeness of the recorded conversation. In the light of this article, the applicant states that a copy of the minutes and recordings should be sent to the citizen with whom the interview was carried out, but there are no provisions in this regard in the draft law. Furthermore, in the Security Services Act which is in force, there is a provision governing the procedure in the case where a person has not given consent to an information conversation and has knowledge of information relevant to national security which is not regulated by this proposal, so there is no indication of how it will be handled in this case. It shall also be indicated at the end of the provision of Article 96(1) that the official may, without his or her own consent, be temporarily or permanently moved to work in another State body. The question has been raised as to how this proposal for a law can be brought into line with Article 92(4) of the Treaty. The Constitution under which the Advocate General protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the procedures to be conducted among other things and in the security services. After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia and its position, proposals, opinions presented in the debate on the draft law shall be submitted to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63857	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives HSP respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63858	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. The best security intelligence community is the one little is known to be trusted by citizens. Is that the situation in Croatia? It's not. Do Croatian citizens have confidence in the work of the intelligence community? They don't. How Croatian citizens feel about the security intelligence community in Croatia. So we are saying this from the establishment of the current Croatian state to today, unfortunately, as an extended hand of politics, and so there are many examples for both the former police authorities and the current ones. So, a large number of affairs that have not been illuminated to this day, have not been investigated and established in fact. And because of that, I can only mention a few such things as listening to the bishop, or following secret, top athletes and so-called right-wings. The case of Helena Puljiz, the case of the Turk affair and various other cases where there has always been an investigation, opened the debate, but nothing was ever found in the end. The aim of this bill is to depoliticalise the intelligence community among other things. The depoliticization was also referred to by the former government, as well as by this government. But unfortunately, that most important shift wasn't made. If this is going to be achieved, it will not happen if some of the important things in this bill don't change. The Croatian intelligence community has been left to itself for a long time, a purpose to itself. Let's just remember the fact that the National Security Council first met, so after the 2003 parliamentary elections, it only met in December 2004. So, the National Security Council, the most important body that directs and assigns tasks to the intelligence community. Then why did they meet? They met for the arrest of General Gotovina. And then, no wonder the services were left to themselves. After that, they met every week. And what's most important is the effective action of the intelligence community. The most important is the expertise, the professionalism, the patriotism of members of the intelligence community, their supervision, the prevention of abuse, the responsible authority that will not use them for political purposes, but which will use what is most important, which is the national security of the state from one side and the other national interests of the state in all respects, and so on in terms of the crime of the economic and everything else, where the intelligence community, unfortunately, has not achieved what it was meant to do today, although it has to be recognised that there have been some shifts in the work of the intelligence community in Croatia lately. But I'm saying, we're going to have to do a lot more to get the intelligence community and so that Croatian citizens have full confidence in its work. In all democratic states, recruiting new members of the intelligence community will tell every new member about everything you do well in your business. But for everything you do, everyone will know and everyone will write about it. And with us, what's the situation with our leaders and how the lower and higher play James Bonds, they show up at football games and deal with everything and everything except what they should be doing. We have cases of a river named James Bond. Watch out, a member of the intelligence community is sitting in a hospital lounge like a soccer club called. Here's what's important, it turns out to be small things. But they are important things for Croatian citizens to gain means full trust in the work of the intelligence community. And what did we get today? We got a law that's basically been working for over two years. The first session of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, meaning sometime in 2004, when we discussed the report on the work of the Intelligence Community for 2003, it was that it was necessary to make changes and amendments to the laws, and we also concluded this in 2005 and 2006. So we're just now getting a new bill, and if it's going to win those goals, the truth has to be recognised, and the goals are that we have a modern, effective intelligence community that's professional, professional. From which as far as possible, politics must be reduced to the lowest, and we know ourselves that this is one of the biggest problems with us. And now what does this bill prove? It proves that only this fact, look. The State Secretary from the Department of Justice is defending the bill. We know for a fact that it was done by the POA, or the intelligence community. It's also visible according to page numbering, because they have a completely different numbering. So that's that James Bond number, because it goes 1/53, 2/53 and beyond. And what does that prove? It's a very important thing. The government doesn't have a person in charge, so the minister, the person in charge of the intelligence community. So that's one important problem. This shows how bad our structure is. I mean, it's a normal situation that the government has to have a person in charge, whether it's going to be the Deputy Prime Minister, whether it's going to be a minister. But we must have a person in the Croatian government who will be in charge of the work and monitoring of the intelligence community. And now we're moving on. Look, the law's been done for over two years, but it's the first presummation the law's ever done wrong. He was made on the option that the president of the state is from one political option, and the Prime Minister is from another option. On what... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus was the law for both the former authorities made in this context, and normally for that part, means the current law regarding constitutional changes. And that's already the wrong approach. What does that mean after these presidential elections happens to be from the same political option both the Prime Minister and the president of the state. So all this falls into the water in terms of supervision and in terms of directing the work of the intelligence community and all the important things that are most important to Croatian citizens to regain confidence in the work of the intelligence community and that Croatian citizens cooperate with the intelligence community, not that journalists and people are subject to abuse from intelligence communities. Now with that lack, it means that the law was made the first perception there are five more essential shortcomings of this law. 5 significant shortcomings in this law that are essentially relevant to creating an intelligence security system in which Croatian citizens will trust where we will prevent possible manipulations, possible abuses to the least possible extent. And what are the essential disadvantages of these five essential shortcomings? It is the first delay in taking the lead in the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. That's the first thing that matters. And we also know that it is a normal situation outside that the chairman of the board is the strongest opposition party. And our proposal is that most of the board has opposition. Why does it matter? It is important that the president, when he is from the opposition, and legally we also propose that in all those situations when it comes to listening to the 24 hours that the services can, without the approval of the Supreme Court and in the monitoring measures, all of this should be made known to the chairman of that committee. Not the other members, but the chairman of that committee. But normally, the chairman of the board must pass before the appointment of that post one security check. All that matters is that we have a responsible person and that we don't even think about whether or not it's going to leak some board president's information that matters to the security of the country. Did we do it here? We didn't. It's even said... Here we are offering better, new solutions, but we will apply them only from new parliamentary elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second significant deficiency, the lack of control of the Supreme Court over the application of both covert monitoring measures and surveillance related to this surveillance for up to 24 hours. In our court, or by my court, in all such cases, such as listening to the wire for up to 24 hours, which is an authorisation in law, that measure must be delivered immediately. Therefore, the responsible person from one or another agency must immediately deliver both to the chairman of the committee required by the order of the opposition and to the Supreme Court who resolves the situation. And normally, within 24 hours, it must be officially delivered to that Supreme Court judge. In this way we will prevent all sorts of possible abuses in terms of application, meaning that listening measures and measures of covert monitoring. Because such measures will immediately be taken, they will have the knowledge that both the chairman of the Board in the order of the opposition and one of the Supreme Court judges. Because you know why? Everywhere out there, even with us, it is likely that this problem is that the ministry is always trying to look for such measures and apply them. But surveillance should be introduced as effectively as they are effective and how justified they are. Because according to analyses of the earlier work of the intelligence community, it means not the present, both in the beginning and out, and in Croatia. In fact, the services applied these very measures to a vast extent. And when one expert analysis was made, it was seen that only 10 to 15% were the justification for the application of such measures. Therefore, these are key issues where supervision will be introduced and where any abuse related to the work of secret services will be prevented, i.e. the use of the security intelligence system for various political purposes. So, monitoring politicians, tracking journalists, listening to politicians, listening to journalists. It is always current before elections during the election campaign and in the whole part. Then discovering a variety of situations in private life, which doesn't belong in that domain or to deal with secret services or anything else. Therefore, these are the crucial things. And now we come to that situation about the vague regulation of the Civil Surveillance Council, that is, the new Civil Surveillance Council. We must be aware that the current solutions are about reducing the powers of that Council. And for this reason, we ask that the Council has the right and the official duty to raise the issue of supervision, i.e. abuse or violation of human rights of citizens. So, not only is it in the law now, but he, the Council, can do it on official duty. With a view to whether or not it will go to a Council representative directly cannot be decided by a third party. He always has the right to go to that part, but he must be determined what and how he can control and watch. Normally, he cannot enter the service associates and reveal these associates because we know that these are always situations where the full protection of those persons who are in one way or another work for security services must be achieved, but I say security services that are in the function of Croatian citizens of non-security services that are in the function of political situations. Still, what's important in the end is to say for this part, and about other things I'm going to say individually that I failed on behalf of the club, transitional and final provisions are important. The transitional and final provisions have been made to you so that, by way of effect of this law, when it is adopted that today's final proposal and today's legislation is passed, there is paralysis, total paralysis, because in a month, nothing is known, within a month the President of the State and the Prime Minister must appoint the heads of the service as well as the other, regulations must be passed, and it is said that these three services stop working which is a bad situation and normally stop working, but it should be said that POA continues to work as this new security intelligence agency, and that the VS continues to work as a military security intelligence agency... Total paralysis. [[You don't understand.]] Total paralysis, the law couldn't apply at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63859	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63860	Thank you very much. A colleague, Kovacevic, mentioned the affairs directly, mentioned only one thing, about how the secret services followed, listened, so he listed bishops, athletes and so on. Right-handed. This is an incorrect allegation, as the Secret Service Supervisory Council has undoubtedly found that no secret measures have been applied to these persons, or to the people listed by counterpart Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63861	The club of representatives of the CNS, the respected representative of Srecko Ferenčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63862	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. In front of us is a legal proposal that has brought great attention to the public’s own announcement. Such attention is completely understandable for a number of reasons. On the one hand, it is an area that is extremely important for each country, as well as for Croatia. At the same time, an extremely sensitive area included in all segments of the social order. On the other hand, by acknowledging all the positive things that the security and intelligence system has done in defense of the territorial sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, we have witnessed in recent years a great compromise both between individuals in the system and the entire security and intelligence system. All these affairs that sometimes rocked for months, whose tails today retreated, seriously damaged the reputation of this service and compromised all possible attempts to improve it in advance. It should also be said that the work of the ministry has recently been improved, the services work well in their legal frameworks. Four years after the adoption of the Security Services Act, which in certain segments, truly rare, manage to bring this area somewhat closer to more modern segments, we have a new bill on the entire security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia. At first, I feel obliged on behalf of the HNS Club to support the efforts to regulate the entire security-intelligence spectrum in a new and more modern way, but as a system that can be effectively monitored at any time. Such a security-intelligence system will meet all democratic criteria, the criteria of modern society and be an essential part of national security without jeopardising any constitutional provisions on individual freedoms and rights in any segment. This bill is in the section that prepared the profession, so in the organisational and operational technical well done, but unfortunately in those policy-making segments, some changes are needed in our opinion. It is certain that under the conditions of amended global security threats and challenges, we in our country too must work on universal professionalisation and as best as possible to form security and intelligence services simultaneously and oversee their work in order to avoid the abuse of the powers given to them from the beginning. Considering that... We give pain to such thinking, we want to warn of certain ambiguities and in this new legislative proposal with a view to making it more quality and more acceptable. [[You don't understand.]] As the legislator himself says in the introduction of the law, in the past communication between the employees of intelligence agencies with citizens has shown certain legal indetermination. This could be characterised by much more difficult words if we recall all the affairs that employees of these services have caused by their actions towards the citizens of this country. A key issue in the debate on this law should be how much control over the work of intelligence services will be possible. That's the question this law must give an answer to. It must be the thought of a guide for all of us in the future to restore trust in secret services, that they really care about national security, not to be used for inter-party accounts. We think that the time has finally come and this law is a good basis for us to accomplish it. The HNS Club advocates as much civilian parliamentary surveillance as possible over the work of the security intelligence services, or agencies. The proposed legal provisions describe the way of direct supervision by the Croatian Parliament, i.e. through the Committee of National Security Assembly. We consider this an extremely important issue because elected representatives of the Croatian Parliament are representatives of the citizens of this country and are accordingly entitled to oversee the work of secret services on behalf of these citizens. We therefore welcome the new provision of Article 104, which allows the Assembly Committee to directly monitor the work of secret services in the same way as the Office of the National Security Council. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The chairman of the National Security Committee of the Croatian Parliament is not mentioned among these persons. Without such reporting, the National Security Committee must not be able to carry out effective surveillance, so we suggest that among the persons whose secret services must submit their reports... President of the Committee of the Croatian National Security Assembly. [[You don't understand.]] The very important note also concerns the composition of the committee itself. It is necessary that the chairman of the board be of the ranks of the current opposition in the Croatian Parliament as proposed, but that such a solution should also be provided that the parliamentary opposition must have most board members that the majority of the party or coalition in power would not have been obstructed by the lack of quorum. In the same way, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minority has been regulated, which has proved to be a good solution, and such solutions work well in developed Western democracies. One of the newspapers in this bill is also an operational technical centre for telecommunications supervision. We believe that the separation of such a centre is a good solution and that it will also be able to control the work of the MUP, which so far also has the power to listen, so it is also one improvement in the law. Civilian supervision, or the work of the Civil Surveillance Council, was held at the level of the previous law, which was a newspaper and a good solution in the existing legislative proposal, and we believe that this proposal by the Civil Surveillance Council will also be able to carry out its intended function as civilian control. It is known that in previous actions of Secret Service employees, a lot of complaints have been made about their communication with citizens. In this legislative proposal and these issues have tried to be resolved in a better way, but we believe that in an even clearer and more unequivocal way, officials, security intelligence agencies other than a legitimate official card and a badge in official communication with citizens should be made aware of their rights and obligations, i.e. that the conversation can only be carried out with the express consent and consent of citizens. We also believe that the good provisions that speak of the measures of secret data collection, that is to say listening to suspicious persons on several occasions and for a long time, but with the consent of 3 Supreme Court judges, but we believe that we should consider whether the most fortunate solution that is envisaged is that such a secret monitoring measure practically does not have a time limit, can take theoretically a lifetime, this should be done. Furthermore, what needs to be addressed is increased attention when setting up new agencies and the fact that this country is available in a security intelligence mile, i.e. whether it truly guarantees better quality work in the future. It is up to us to provide a legislative framework and a system of staff education for security services, and it is certain that only with highly educated, quality and professional personnel can we fulfil these tasks. Where the ruling party intervenes on the law of shame, and one of the important things in this bill is the proposal for Article 123 of the Law. This article provides that the provisions of paragraph 105 of the Law... Croatian Assembly... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] national security... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] representatives from the ranks of the most representative opposition party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That this will apply from the day of the establishment of the new Croatian Parliament, i.e. it will start to apply after the next parliamentary elections have been held. I ask if this means that the current ruling party is about to lose its way in the next parliamentary elections and become an opposition, thus saving the place to the Croatian Parliament for one of its representatives. If so, I agree and accept such a way of thinking about the current government's own work, and then we can contribute to the entry into force of that provision for 50 years. However, this kind of thinking is not good and Article 123 is in no way good and should be deleted from this proposal and this provision that the opposition representative will be taken over by the parliamentary committee immediately following the adoption of the new law. The key to all is that such a provision calls into question the meaning of the whole law and only deepens the belief that the HDZ is actually still seeking to control, manipulate and monitor the work of the entire security intelligence community, which no party can do. I think the time has finally come to make a law that will work on the well-being of the Croatian state, regardless of what the political option is in power. And in the end, I want to repeat once again the position of the HNS Club. In principle, we welcome all efforts to improve the quality of the structure and work of the secret services, and it is also undeniable that secret services are necessary to protect the constitutional legal order of each country and so does the Republic of Croatia. And for these very reasons, it is very important that this law, which enters into an extremely sensitive area, opens up a great possibility of violating the constitutional... This is why we in this House must protect these fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and, in this sense, improve the bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We therefore call on the proposer to adopt our remarks and suggestions so that this Law would benefit all Croatian citizens and to minimise the possibility of manipulation for any political option or party, so in another reading, if these proposals were adopted, they could support the new draft Law on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63863	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63864	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are facing one of the laws that I would dare to state is the most important determination of national security, and since it is a national security law, I have at the beginning of one principled remark, and it refers to the fact that it may be necessary to take advantage of the opportunity in the previous debate and in the previous debate to try to comply with certain disputed provisions, i.e. the different views on the solution adopted by this Law. Why would I think that? I think national security belongs to it now that I call them the political issues which in every country, and especially in every parliament should not be a topic of opposition. Unfortunately, in order not to be a topic of opposition, certain actions are needed. Unfortunately, this previous debate and the discussion of the functioning, i.e. the concept of secret services and this intelligence and security system that we are talking about here today, has remained, but well, at least it is acceptable that this Law goes into two readings and that we will probably have the understanding of the promoter to accept what today or at least a large part of what is going to be said here today in order for this Law to get as much support as possible. I believe you're all familiar with this Act, so with the Intelligence and Security System Act or the Security Intelligence System, as you will, there are two other laws in the procedure, and the fourth one is waiting for us, which is a law that still doesn't seem to have come out of the government's procedure, and it concerns security checks. I think it would also be good here today if we had someone to say so from the profession, i.e. from those parts of the state administration that were dealing with this problem and finally the ones that presented this law at the session and these other laws at the government's session. But I believe that in the debates today and in the second reading, we will actually come to terms as I have said as many questions as possible, i.e. harmonised questions. I don't think I have to mention that national security and security today fall into issues that are considered crucial to the survival of each country, that these issues have taken one completely different dimension since 9/11 2001, that globalisation carries on its positive and negative sides. That is why I personally expected if you are already going with these four packages to address the issue of national security that we will take this opportunity and solve this whole segment. For example, I see the problem for a simple reason and it seems to me to be a key problem for this segment of national security, which is that Croatia does not have any roof law that treats national security. You don't actually have a law that prescribes the roles of the National Security Council, you don't have the same clear set of roles as segments of the state administration or parts of the state administration in this sphere. For the simple reason I think we need one law like that. Why? Because if, in fact, it were to be defined clearly what the tasks of individual bodies in the system of intelligence, or the system of national security, would probably be much less space for some kind of manipulation or to guess whether some kind of task that came from the policy area towards secret services is a matter of negative politicisation, politicisation or it's a real area of national security. So it might not be bad, as I recall in 2003, one of NATO's remarks was that it would be good if we had a special national security law defining the National Security Council. Because you know it's mentioned in the current Security Service Act, and then they estimate that it's not the seat of the National Security Council in the Secret Service Act. Therefore, perhaps at the very beginning, at the very beginning, the proposer may consider conjecturing this normative part of national security. To go with one roof law. And we are actually coming up with that key issue that is being debated and led around the world today when it comes to national security. In fact, on the one hand, we have the tendency of the state, the state authorities to increase the level of security. However, in this trend, there is always a dilemma, which is the extent to which such security can go without jeopardizing human rights. And in fact, today in the world, when it comes to national security, only one issue is discussed, which is the balance of security and the balance of human rights levels. Because there is a real danger for you that the request, for example, intelligence services, demands for different patriotic laws go so far that they are actually protecting a certain way of life, if you want certain civilizational fluids, actually they are endangering these national, or civilizational assets, that level of human rights and civil freedoms. So, as legitimate secret services have the right to temporarily restrict or violate human rights, a key issue in this Act, if not in this segment, is talking about how they are aware of the minimum possibility of abuse of positions and the position of secret services. And I think that's the key question. And I think, in fact, that key question when it comes to, in this Law and about this Law, it actually has a certain change and I don't know who's going to agree with it. I heard that the Human Rights Committee also found it, that it's actually a lower level than we have so far. So, what kind of surveillance is there? There are 3 types of surveillance and all these 3 types of surveillance are contained in this Act. So there's this so-called expert surveillance that's now being transferred to the UNS and it's still existed today. Executive supervision by definition belongs to you in the area of executive power. There is something called parliamentary surveillance, it falls within the domain of this House and there are, as I say, advocates or those who think that civil surveillance is needed in Croatia at this time. Why civil surveillance and why do we need the Civil Security Council? It is true that few European countries, I don't know, Belgium, Portugal and perhaps others that have this system of civil civil, or civil surveillance. However, I keep pointing out, there were colleagues before me. That civil surveillance is needed for a simple reason, not only in the sense of controlling the work of secret services but also in a certain way to restore citizens' confidence in intelligence services, that is, in this system. Because if you start, then, to analyze history from 90th to today you will see that your history of Croatian secret services is in fact the history of affairs, abuse, etc. And what I know and, according to my experience, most often these affairs are produced by current or former intelligence for different needs. Now, why do we still need civilian surveillance? Because precisely because of these abuses, it is often associated that certain political options that are in power, regardless of who they are, are most often manipulated by secret services. Now, if that's true and that perception amongst the citizens is correct, then you need that civilian surveillance, at least another period of time to question that one and that politicians are actually manipulating secret services. So I'm up for three kinds of surveillance. The first is therefore professional supervision, which is in the domain of the government, executive authorities. There is parliamentary oversight which, apart from overseeing and controlling this executive supervision, has wider and must have wider powers. And the third is this civilian surveillance. And it seems to me that we are actually coming to that crucial moment around this law. My thesis, as far as I understand what it says in the Law, is next, and I think that's a key change in this law. That the level of surveillance offered in this Law is lower than we have today under the current law. Here, I'll try to explain. So we have a Civil Surveillance Council that has reduced powers. He can't act on his own, he can't enter the premises anymore, or the secret service except without special procedure, warrant, etc. But not to convince you, you can read the old law and the new law. And the other thing is that one good thing, which is that the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which is primarily the control committee in the hands of the opposition, is delayed until the next, to come into force from the next term. Now, you've got a situation to take this away from your next term and you're reducing the level of civilian surveillance. For me, the question is, why is that? Why is it actually done? Because there are some hidden intentions? I don't know. I suggest the Proposer thinks about it. And then this council story with these reduced powers prolongs for the next term. Well, at least we keep that level of surveillance we have now. Because I don't even want to think that it's in someone's interest to reduce surveillance so that services or services can be manipulated. As for other things in this Law, therefore, as colleagues have said, those first and foremost do not touch important powers and that is good. They go to a more efficient new organization but that will show their justification after the adoption of various sublegal acts, and here I agree with the predecessors who are saying that still these sublegal acts which again partially treat intelligence treatment significantly treat human rights and that these rules should at least come to an opinion. Whether in the Committee on Human Rights, whether or not in the Committee on National Security, we leave that to the Proposer to think about it. So, the organisation time will show world practice knows different models whether one, two or three services, but if these services are effective, if it costs less to taxpayers, then that new organisation is entirely justified. What seems just as good to me is what's being formed and what's going on at a single operational and telecommunications center. It seems to me, in fact, that the same thing might have taken one step further. For example, the Hungarian model that is the most consistent shows that the OTC is an entirely independent service and needs a special warrant for the future service. But good. What I don't like and what's not good is that in Article 122, the transitional provisions don't actually see when this OTC is going to come into effect, how much it's going to cost and what's actually going to happen to that period. In the end, I might also suggest that we consider changing the name of a unique secret service. Why would she call herself SOA? Sounds a lot better to me than the OSA Intelligence and Security Agency. It has nothing to do with the OSA, but it has to do with you being the security officer, first of all, you have to collect certain information and the OSA has no symbols. Let's actually give a little bit, some of you have owls etc. I'm not trying to convince you now. It might not be a bad idea to consider changing the name of the ministry. I'll use one more thing. In fact, you mentioned the Bureau, what might not be good, which is that according to the new proposal, large powers are given in terms of supervision, and there seems to be some confusion in the law. So you're saying that the UNS is the primary supervisory body, so then you mention the Information Security Office. So you have two positions of the role of the UNS and the institution in one part of you matching and then in third place you mention that a new law will be passed. As the new law has come into the process, I suggest that you simply throw all this stuff out of this law and make it an integral part of the law that will probably come into the parliamentary procedure in a few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63865	Thank you. The SDSS Club is a respected representative of Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. The club loses its word. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63866	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed gentlemen of the council! Well, what I want to say first, gentlemen, is that we simply need to demystify that area. Let's not mystify these services by modeling American action films. We're not here. The other thing I want to say or notice is one hard-readable, completely bureaucratic introductory reading as if a dictionary like this wanted to impress someone here among us. However, the essence must be that this law be more accessible to everyone, more understandable because many will analyse it and many will criticise it and will clearly judge it in advance. Secondly, one law like this can't be passed either. Otherwise, I am the last to marginalise the role of the Parliament without a hundred percent consensus means between the government and that means the ruling majority of whatever it means in our assembly on one hand and the President of the Republic who is somehow supported by the opposition regardless of who he or who he will not support tomorrow in some future elections. But what is it? The constitution is clear, the government and the president of the state co-ordinate means the work of the intelligence community and this parliament can, however, be asked to determine the Gabarites of the Government but a higher constitution very difficult to be able to reach the president. The government and the president obviously agreed on this. I suppose they've figured out who's going to be in charge of the next period. And now, what do we do? First of all, it should be noted that the intelligence community has begun to be organized since 2000. I said it started even though there were catastrophic personnel solutions. Let's remember Žunec in the HIS, but Mr. Karamark's arrival began to show some seriousness. We see that he fired 70 employees, offered them an honorable amount through retirement and, behold, now suddenly they stop leaking information from the POA even though we saw on the last Committee on Internal Policy that one of the former employees was probably very thoroughly prepared by journalists. If the leaks information now leaks from certain ministries. But what's he saying? That the opportunities in the country are changing, that the POA is no longer used for political accounting or for political planting, that it has been taken over by no more gods, father's sons, friends from the student days, but that it has been taken over by professionals, that responsibility is raised, that information is kept, and not for example by the stenograms Milosevic, after which we have dropped the entire system of access to information from that neighbouring country, etc. Okay, someone's gonna say we don't need to peek into the neighbor's pot, but what we're all gonna do, both the English and the Americans, to the rest of us, but it's less important now. And we live, that's what's important to mention. Simply, in times like these where 90% of information is simply public, all we have to do is analyze it whether we're reading it in writing, whether it's electronic media. We just need to listen to this Assembly and we will agree or someone will put the whole picture together about Croatia. Finally, we are so small that we have nothing to hide and therefore I say we should demystify those services. What we need in this peacetime is an intelligence community, first of all, fighting organised crime, fighting terrorism, even though we defend ourselves best in a way that we can be as far away from Iraq as possible. And clearly third, in some specific cases, to fight corruption. It's supposed to be the police's business, the D.A.'s office, the courts. But well, when we know what the odds are, let that job be on some part of their authority assigned to the anti-intelligence agency. In one word, when crime is Wednesday regardless of what I keep saying that Croatia is a safe country we have enough work to do here that we don't have to stare too much at anyone in the pot. The services must be clearly monitored, but destroying at this point some of the people who run them I think it would be bad for the country after Peter is in prison and many others. Secondly, after the Ante Gotovina case has been resolved, no matter what we personally think about Anti Gotovina's intelligence community at this point can afford luxury and go into reorganization even though it doesn't have to waste too much energy on it today. I always said that Croatia is enough to have two services. One military or one means to do so. Which I'd call short or I thought I'd call her, suggest she call herself an Owl. Although the Slovenians have an SOVA, I think this proposal by Mr. Lucin on the OSA is really this beautiful. And this other one, let's make it SOA. But names don't matter. Croatia is enough gentlemen to have two services, but it is even more important to set up a security intelligence agency the scope of jobs and a clear type of supervision. It can't happen to us for sure anymore what this intelligence community allowed itself to do in the '90s. In some cases in the early 1990s, parts of these services were deeply encumbered in crime. In the second half of the '90s, it seemed dominantly that he was dealing with political inexperience and part of the media. In the beginning of 2000, internal obstruction of government was carried out through them, and today it seems that we need to highlight a relatively serious organisation that should neither be underestimated nor exaggerated. First, if we want to apostrophe the role of Parliament. In my view, it is not enough in Article 4 to participate in the work of the Council with the President of the State and the Government, Minister, Police, the military, the judiciary and so on and only the President of the Parliament, but, by my court, the President of the Committee on National Security or the Vice-President of the Assembly of the opposition must be involved. We like to represent ourselves as a parliamentary democracy and therefore let's wake up. Secondly, it is understandable that the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy must be of the strongest opposition party. The post must be taken by an opposition member immediately after the entry into force of this law, although it is the law in the first reading, so that the opposition can hold the brother's brother for a year "higher avi" to the upcoming parliamentary elections. I don't see why the ruling majority would create a problem about that. I don't know what we're talking about now in the media of some new Homeland Security Ministry and so on? I'll see you back at the UNS, so be it. What's with the UVNS? What's the point, however, is civilian surveillance, these are powers. I quote Article 33(3), meaning "The collection measures, the secret data collection measures are secret monitoring of telecommunications services, activities, transport, secret surveillance of communication content, covert surveillance of telecommunications data, covert monitoring of the location of users, covert supervision of international telecommunications connections, covert supervision of postal and other shipments and so on. It is clear, and that is to say, that an ordinary citizen of these measures should not be afraid even though many of the services of the 1990s and even in this House were rightly afraid. It's important, right. The important thing is that measures mean i.e. a warrant for monitoring and so on issued by the Supreme Court judge. Article 36(2) is important that if the data could be hidden and so on, the monitoring order shall be issued by the Director of the Agency but that it may last for a maximum of 24 hours. It doesn't have to be anything unusual. We have that provision now, gentlemen. A cry can come from whom? It may come from crime miles, their lawyers, however, any such case, it is essential that later on, under quotes of knowledge, check the judge, but in my court and yet in front of a body. It is now a matter of agreement whether this body could be the National Security Council where, if the vice-president of the opposition or the head of the Assembly Committee on Internal Policy and People's Security is involved. So we have at least one more in the opposition, and that way it could still be monitored that way. Nothing could have been too secreted. Second, but it's a matter of agreement. Secondly, it is particularly important, gentlemen, in my opinion, that Article 40, paragraph 1 and 3 of the Security Intelligence Agency, that at the request of the citizens, they should inform them whether they have taken measures to collect information in secret and so on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If the notice could lead to a threat to the safety of another person and so on and so forth. The position in my court of the Committee on Internal Policy in this law should be further strengthened. The Committee should not be silenced, but rather the opposite of its role should be apostrophyd or strengthened. And this law would even be said by that Committee, and that is now a question of the honour of this Parliament. It's probably more of a second reading. But the position of the Committee I said should be strengthened, the "high avi" position of the Parliament should be stressed, and we, by weakening the role of the Committee, strengthen the executive power which is inadmissible in my court and return that executive power to the level of one from or from the time before 2000. We see in Article 103 that the Parliament is doing. It is literally said that in carrying out surveillance of the Security Intelligence Agency, the Croatian Parliament or the Committee responsible for national security may request the UVNS to provide reports and notifications and, or to carry out expert supervision of the Security Intelligence Agency. The Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for national security can also conduct direct surveillance of security intelligence agencies. I think that's very, very good. The Office is now the National Security Council and the Civil Surveillance Council. The Civil Watch Council, we have to acknowledge that the "urban et orbi" has only two, three countries in the world. On the other hand, because of its experience in the 1990s, Croatia simply has to have such a Council for Civil Control. Croatia is essential. It doesn't matter that today's dominant influence with HDZ. I guess that's going to change already, and we need it to mean that or that council because it has also contributed positively to the professionalization of the service. And he's kind of between the other and the little defense abuse. He's often marginalized, but he needs to stay. We welcome the clear Article 104, paragraph 2 of point 3 and so on. So I think that this article takes care of the Parliament, but I would like to point out again in this small parallel with this Law on the publication of public data, etc. But let's let it go now. We're a country in transition. We are a country with negative intelligence experience until the '90s UDBA, HOS etc. until 2000, and therefore the service should not be put to death but must certainly be monitored. She can't be an arbiter, she can't be a political entity. It must be an instrument of parliamentaryism clearly in the function of the security of citizens above all and the country as a whole. For the end, it is good that the president of the state and the government have agreed. I don't see any reason to take a position, i.e. Power and opposition over some important things don't agree, and then let people clearly do their job. We're all watching him, and if he jumps out of the ridge, then we try to get them back there, but this must be a good basis for first reading, and that should be emphasized. It is noted here that in the last year, the appointments may want to enter the mandate of the future government, but the defence of real politicisation, I say, is that the president of the state and other leaders in these services that will be appointed, and this law should be laid down by law in the event of a change of government, and then some president of the state, prime minister or future prime minister simply determine who will remain. However, even if there is no change in power, they should put their trust in the mandate after parliamentary elections, because they are burdening some shifts of the future prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63867	A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63868	Thank you, Mr. President. Says colleague Cain, Croatia is a small country and has nothing to hide. The truth that Croatia is a small country but we also know in history, there history teaches us that, unfortunately, it has always had great secrets, but fortunately, they eventually learned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63869	Second correction by the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63870	I mean this debate and the statement made by Mr. Cain shows a deep lack of understanding of the elements and responsibilities of the intelligence and security services. I quote an inadmissible, incorrect and unacceptable quote. "We are so small, we have nothing to hide." That's irresponsible. This is unserious because, in the context of international cooperation, only in the context of the fight against terrorism, the Republic of Croatia exchanges many sensitive, important, secret information at bilateral, regional and multi-party level. Because of such irresponsible statements that show our misunderstanding and our responsibility to the information that determines both our individual and common security. The Republic of Croatia has received high international and serious remarks. As long as we are so improvised on some important secret information, we will have difficulty entering the euro of Atlantic integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63871	Thank you. And the third correction by the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63872	Unfortunately for us, it's not exactly the quote of fellow Cain to be between '95. And in 2000, the intelligence community dealt with intellectuals, journalists, union leaders, and that after 2000 it was engaged in internal obstructions. It would be true that after 2000 the concept of internal enemies was revived and the intelligence community connected in those years with organised crime and was involved in stalking and listening to respected President Vladimir Seks, Dr. Ivo Sanader, Franje Arapovic, Goran Ivanisevic and another 50 completely free and respected Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63873	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. It's an HSS rep club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63874	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club is always for those amendments or those draft laws that will provide better content, a better legal framework and greater supervision. However, we do mind a little bit that these days from some media, and even from the mouth of some politicians, we could hear that we are getting a law that is in the highest agreement with European standards, forgetting that the existing Security Services Act has reached a very high level of protection of human rights, that it has received very positive assessments of international factors between the rest of the Council of Europe, the European Union and NATO. In this regard, I would like to point out that the legislator of this bill also highlights a very high degree of protection of human rights which is very clearly apostrophe in the current law. Otherwise, somewhere in the 1990s, this area has been legally regulated and laws are being regulated primarily in order to protect human rights that are often exposed to violations within the framework of various services. In its previous view, the Proposer says that the key shortcomings that should lead to the new draft legislation are identified in the areas of territorial and functional jurisdiction of security services, the application of the basic methods of work, and in particular from the point of view of the optimal operationality and human resources management capabilities, given the specificity of jobs and the increased need for safety and efficiency of work. These are key shortcomings which the applicant already listed on the first page of the reasoning as key for which amendments and additions should be made. Of course, it should be noted that the legislative proposal is indeed in line with the standards of the security intelligence systems of the countries of the European Union. In particular, similarity can be found with systems such as the Netherlands, Slovenia and Slovakia which have redesigned their own systems, or adapted in the last few years to the needs of the modern security system and these needs. Furthermore, when the justification for the above key shortcomings of the existing law is read, then the proposer starts to lose himself a little bit in the way he tries to convince us of these shortcomings, and when he lists everything that the new law and proposal guarantees, one question arises. Don't we have all this together or can't we have it in our current bill of law? And aren't the current bill better, stronger and stronger human rights? As a result, we can conclude that the proposal for a new law and its appearance, but it is also very little different from the applicable law. So it's a little bit unclear why, then, the new law, why don't they amend and supplement the existing law. When it is said that this bill is in, in a way, a step backwards in the protection of fundamental human rights, then we can consolidate it for three key reasons. The first is that in the existing law, orders for all measures of secret data collection bring judges to the Supreme Court, and in the proposal for a new law, the Director can also determine for some measures on his own. Secondly, the Civil Watch Council is in the proposal to reduce powers. And thirdly, labour law has narrowed the rights of employees in relation to the existing law. These are three key reasons why this is a step backwards when it comes to human rights. I will try to make our remarks or our views of the HSS Club express in terms of the name of the law itself, as regards the merger of services, in terms of the operational and technical centre, measures of secret collection of data and equal legal status of employees. The law on the security intelligence system when we talk about the name of the law is inappropriate and the impression is that it is made up because of some other needs. First of all, we can't talk about the security system, we can talk about the services. Because the concept of the security system is much wider. Secondly, in terms of "security-intelligence" should be made an inversion and should be intelligence-safe and simply for one natural reason, because first there should be a notice of something that could be valorized as security. It seems to me that in both cases, the author wanted to meet some other needs that consisted of the fact that the name of the service had been expelled and that security intelligence, or intelligence, had been taken into account. Interconnection service. The merger of services is good, but nowhere is the main goal of this merger listed the reason for economics, which was the primary goal in countries with one civilian external and internal and one military. This process of parliament through committees and councils needs to be closely monitored, as other intentions can be gained as well. The operational technical centre being processed in Articles 18 to 22 is crucial. And it talked about the establishment of an operational and technical telecommunication control centre. The fact is that according to the applicable law, the operational technical centre is a fundamental part of the anti-intelligence agency and it is a centre through which coordination is carried out with telecommunications, operators and telecommunications users is a good idea. And it is ultimately also a recommendation, part of the European Union's recommendation. But the extraction of this center from the Anti-intelligence Agency in this way raises several questions. First, how it's going to be done operationally. Second, how much is it for taxpayers? And third, is this proposed solution good, or could it be better? The formation of a particularly separate body to which security services, police, intelligence and judicial authorities have addressed the law of the prescribed procedure is a good idea and it has already been existing in Hungary since 1992 and there has been a special agency to address other intelligence and security agencies with a warrant for the application of classified data collection measures. In this case, the Hungarians were managed by the fact that such a situation where they have a special agency, which as well as its director is equal to other agencies, will achieve more quality supervision and will reduce the abuse of covert data collection measures to the least possible extent. Namely, those who need a secret data collection measure, except that they should be given a court order now need to contact the director of the agency to provide them with a service. In Hungary, all authorised bodies shall address this technical service agency as regards the measures for secret data collection. So it's undeniable that an operational technical centre should exist. It is indisputable that he should be singled out from the counterintelligence agency. But now you have to answer the questions that are very slowly raised there. How is this going to take place operationally? In other words, how to isolate this technical complex system from the Anti-intelligence system, move it to another location, whether staff involved in recording and reproducing records will enter the centre immediately. That there are problems in this problem also shows an article 120 that does not predict at all when the operation-technical centre will begin as an independent body. Secondly, how much such separation will cost, i.e. it should be predicted that in the first stage a quality organisation will be set up, regardless of the location, and then in the second phase, to put the unification of all functions in one place. And third, if we really think we should build a center like that, then there's no reason not to. And that's why the HSS club proposes the following. To make a complete solution. In particular, the operational technical centre should be converted into the Agency and included in the Agency, with the exception of business related to telecommunications operators, the system of electronic reconnaissance and anti-electronic action. So then, in one place, we've solved the issue of all the surveillance centers. And now they work in POA, or the center of electronic reconnaissance. What's from the aspect of economics, but first of all, it controls a far more quality solution. Normally, in such a situation, the appointment of a director, Article 22 of such agency, would be the same as the appointment of the Director of SOA, i.e. VSO. However, we believe that even in the existing solutions, the Director should be made equal with the other directors in terms of how to appoint and resolve. Because this is how he is inferior and may or may not seem to be able to protect the legality of his conduct in a quality way. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 33(3), those measures are not listed in accordance with the standards of the European Telecommunications Institute, and they are also, or rather, not identically defined as those of the same measures in the Criminal Procedure Act. This would be especially important for his actions, since it is important that all institutions address him with the same requirements. The lists are listed here as covert monitoring of telecommunications data, so the question is whether the lists should be measures of secret data collection, because according to the Council of Europe resolutions and standards, these are databases. The second question is who will approve of the insight into these bases. Namely, the existing Criminal Procedure Act treats the list as an insight into the database and does not require a special warrant but rather a request from a competent police body and is forwarded as such to the realization. Therefore, there is a serious discrepancy between the Criminal Procedure Act and the Security Services Act with regard to listing. Therefore, police and intelligence agencies should treat these concepts in the same way and access the protection of human rights in the same way. Article 38 gives the Agency’s directors the power to approve an escort measure which is a step backwards in relation to the applicable law. The secret purchase of documents and cases, lists of phone conversations and controls of locations of users, I personally consider the accompanying measure to continue to be approved by the Supreme Court without the lists being treated according to the applicable rules of the European Union as measures of secret data collection, but as an insight into the database, so that in the case of the police and the intelligence services, it is to be approved by the competent judicial authority, and this is due to the fact that it is very sensitive data. All in all, I do not see any reason why these measures would be approved by the Director rather than by the Supreme Court because the urgency available to the Director is allowed 24 hours for all measures. The level playing field shall be significantly reduced in Articles 94, 95 and 96. In the first instance, the rights of temporary transfer which were previously significantly wider and which the Police Act had and Article 96 of the former Article 73 is abolished. As far as the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is concerned, we believe that the Committee should, apart from the president, always have a majority in the Committee and that the Committee should give its views on the sub-legislative acts, which would actively achieve the role of legislative oversight and give room for the Agency to act. We think that this is a very crucial issue that this Parliament and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security should raise and put it really as the most important supervisory element. In view of the specificities, the Civil Surveillance Council would agree that it should not be affected by their powers but rather by irregularities or inefficiencies or the width shown by the Council with more or less needs, but that it should not go below the level that exists and which is found in the existing law. Because of this, I think about this bill, given the view of the HSS Club that it should be achieved as a kind of consensus and that one such serious law has no need to be the subject of overvote because it is an interest that absolutely all the political parties involved in Parliament have and it is common, because this area we need to arrange to be in its full capacity and to give those results for which it is right to be confirmed daily and which are very important for the overall perspective of society and therefore I hold that between the first and second readings will be an opportunity to try to agree. I note absolutely we are for that law that will give a more quality way of working to a security-intelligence machine.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63875	Thank you. At 11.05 p.m., the time for the 10-minute hearing has expired. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63876	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It was at the beginning of auctioning what they would call that service, so let's call it a bumblebee, it's a lot more bombistic than an wasp, it doesn't look like much of an wasp, it's not God-knows-what. But I'm serious now. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this Proposal for a Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia in its first reading, as proposed by the Proposer, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this law provides new opportunities and dimensions in the work of security services, so as to ensure that security services can achieve their ultimate goal, and this goal is to create preconditions for the security situation and for the security of each citizen individually and the state and people as a whole. Since we are a tourist country and our comparative advantage, the economic advantage of tourism, and tourism is extremely sensitive to security, it is important that Croatia has a good security system that will be able to ensure this security for citizens and ours and those who come to Croatia. The third thing that gives that dimension gives the dimension of this law is rationality. By joining the two services we get certainly a rational, rational spending of taxpayers' resources, because we have one logistics, we have in one place management and personnel structures and financial and procurement of materials and equipment and certainly what is most important in one place is the analysis and pathway of data collapsing which is extremely important and what has proved to be particularly defective in some countries, that just the trip and the time to get information into the right hands to make decisions was decisive for terrorists somewhere to do what they did wrong. The fourth dimension of this law is compatibility with the laws of neighbouring countries, i.e. the European Union where we belong. There is no country in the world as strong and strong and as small as it was said here, which can protect itself from the global indifferences that bring us globalisation, and among them is terrorism above all. Only together will the International Community be better organised, and that category includes certainly the compatibility of legislation, will be more effective and will be able to prevent what is called evil in the future, which is terrorism. Without this, without strong international cooperation, there is no way that a country can defend itself from it, and that is evidence of what happened in America on September 11th. It is a reminder to all of us that this compatibility with neighbouring countries and the exchange of information is crucial. And now let me say a little bit about what's here and said. I cannot accept that services, Croatian services are spoken in the context of UDBA, in the context of KOS, in the context of the OZMA. Dear friends, a lot of people in Croatia remain alive because the guys who worked in those services were honest, honest and putting their lives at risk during the war, and many died went to data collection, information that we could all use tomorrow. Let us not identify these people with those who worked against the Croatian people, against the Croatian people, let us not identify these people with those who fought against the Croatian people in the 1990s, gather information for the benefit of the enemy army, which was only intended to destroy everything that is Croatian and everything that is done and characterizes Croatia in any way. It's not right for these people. No one says there have been certain abuses and there should be, but then say by name and last name, not all together in the same basket. This is irresponsible and it is not correct for these people who have been prepared, honest and very often without and little knowledge and experience, only had a great heart to gather information to help the Croatian people. Secondly, here I propose, as is the European gain, that the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security be of the strongest opposition party. But those of you who make this noise today, I want to remind you of something. In the last term, the government also took the post of president and vice-president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The opposition had nothing, you refused to accept, you refused to accept the HDZ proposal for a man proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. And the entire board has been working with one less member for four years. It is now proposed that the president of the Committee and we support it absolutely, be of the order of the opposition. It's a European gain, it's something that's inevitable, and that's what we suggested in the last term when there were amendments and additions, the adoption of the law in 2000. The opposition then proposed that the president be of the ranks of the opposition. It was rejected and accepted as it was. When HSLS broke the coalition with power, and the president was from HSLS at the same time removed from the position of the Committee president and appointed the president of the second who remained in power. And he remained the vice president of the board just as inside as he was from the government. Now, you've had both the president and the vice president and you've been objecting to our indemnity. Furthermore, when the Law was passed on security services in the Law, it was said that within 30 days new service leaders should be appointed, but you know what it means for the security system. Due to the inability to reach agreements, who will be appointed by the heads of the service are not appointed for a year and a half and the law in that section has not been reached and has not been consumed for a year and a half, but are appointed officers of the duties. It is not the same, and the legislator, it is clear to all of you, does not prescribe without reason to be appointed or appointed as acting. And for a year and a half, they were practically just performers of duty. Prior to that, he was in force, before that Law was passed in 2000, was in force by the UNS Act. The law envisioned expert supervision and the law was put out of force. The SZUP refused to accept that surveillance service. For a year and a half, this service and all security services in Croatia were without any professional supervision because the National Security Office Act was not applicable. It was simply without any explanation that the Law was put out of force, that law out of force could only put the Parliament in place. There's no executive authority. The question arises, and what was so important was that this Law was put out of force and by an illegal act, so that the supervisory service would not be allowed in the service to exercise oversight. Something was wrong. When it comes to the Civil Oversight Council, it has been formed, that I am not going all the way now, it has been formed and has been put into office with the decision of the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, which must decide on the rights and obligations of this Civil Watch Council, only after a year and a half of the day that the law has been passed. The question arises, and why did it take so long to put that council into office? A year and a half. Please. I understand that it bothers you, I understand that it's not pleasant to listen to, but I've been... when you told me about the one in the '90s. And in 2000, and what I'm saying, take the records of the Parliament, phonograms, and you'll be able to read out of them everything I've just said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not saying it to trip someone, I'm not saying it for reasons I want to gloat over it, I'm saying it because it doesn't happen again. And second, that this Law, in the way it rules now, is a step forward and that is good. This Law is a law that very often, very often, will experience changes because forms, notional forms, people who do not wish us to harm themselves from day to day change, their methods, their ways of work, and their executions are increasingly radical and it is certain that we will have to do both organisationally and by training people and every day by training these people, but also by changing the legal provisions we must adapt to these new challenges that will stand before us. That's my goal, and that's why I'm talking about it. Let's not be bigger popes than Catholics, but only when it suits us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63877	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63878	Well, it's not true, or it's not exactly exactly what a colleague said this law was made up of the example of European countries. Many European countries are currently in competition, and they are not making appointments, i.e. they are choosing the leaders of the agencies. In addition, all European countries have a parliamentary committee headed by the strongest opposition party, but. ... Let's let go of what happened before. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You said so yourself. Don't laugh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63879	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63880	We also lost the election because of it, but now you're justifying... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63881	Second correction, honourable representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63882	So it is not true that when it comes to the history of Croatian intelligence services to be spoken in context... but spoken in the context of SUZUP and it is not true that lives are saved by listening to journalists, trade unionists, opposition leaders and civil society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And another incorrect allegation. You claim it was undemocratic that we refused to appoint Ivić Pasalić. So listen, so Ivić Pasalić measured us and the ideal of democracy, then your views on democracy differ significantly from that of the entire Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63883	Coli Stazic, not a representative of Jarnjak, claimed that lives were saved because they were tapped journalists or politicians, he did not say. Dear Representative Happy Ferenchuck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63884	Thank you very much, Mr. President. ... The goat when he said the predecessors discussed secret services in the context of UDBA and KOS. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] I didn't hear any of us talking about this speaker talking in that context, but I said the Secret Service must have played a big part in the defense... The Republic of Croatia, but I also said that secret services had a lot of affairs, that many of their employees were in these affairs and that the whole system had been constrained in these affairs, that this was a major problem in one part of the work of secret services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today I also said it was different.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63885	Honorable representative of Shima Lucin, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63886	Thank you very much. Two false allegations. It is an incorrect assumption that the acting officer is not a function and that he is not doing his job, because that is because today in Parliament we haven't had a chairman of the Supervisory Council in a year and a half, but an acting officer, and if that were true, then my question means why haven't you fixed it? The other one, the other one. As far as surveillance is concerned, and that surveillance is not allowed to be manipulated. Mr. Jarnjak, I suggest you take the state secret off of me being able to publicly say why surveillance is not allowed to those who were working on listening to journalists and politicians and why they could not enter the SUZUP then. Here's what I suggest in front of the public, take down the state's secret for a reason why it couldn't be allowed to get into SuZUP and I'll talk about it in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63887	This is, this is another colleague of Lucin's, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because, you haven't corrected this other part of the incorrect quote but you've put one proposal to represent the Jarnjak. Don't do that. And respected. What? ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63888	Mr. President, the predecessor hurt the Rules of Procedure because it's not like you said, it wasn't correcting an incorrect assumption, but even if we take down a secret, no one has the right to break a law that's in force. There's no point above that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63889	This is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Jarnjak, don't. And the esteemed representative of Ante Markov, the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63890	Thank you very much. A fellow Jarnjak said this new bill is a step forward. If a step forward is the possibility of the Director self-applying the measures of secret data collection, if a step forward is a reduction in the powers of the Civil Surveillance Council, if the step forward is to narrow down employees' rights in security services, and what is a step back?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63891	Thank you. We're going to individual debates. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63892	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, this legal proposal has shown great public interest. Now a man wonders why? What matters to the citizens is whether there will be one, two, three security services, it certainly does not matter to them, they will not live any better or safer, the average age pension will continue to be 1,000, 244 kuna, will be 139 kuna less than in 2004. They're going to have to pay for every doctor's visit, they're going to have to be more patient on the waiting lists we talked about yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63893	And stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63894	Does this law still concern citizens? As far as they're concerned. Why? Most of them are concerned about civil surveillance, because they as citizens will be able to oversee the work of secret services. And why is that? Because it's still a vivid memory at the end of the 1990s, at a time when not only journalists were supervised but all the newsrooms, at a time when listening to the opposition leaders, union leaders, representatives of civil society, at a time when all of them, all those who thought critically, all those who dared to speak critically the late president called the cattle. Citizens see the relationship and current authorities towards them, see that power is all-powerful and that is how it behaves. They see that they can lose their jobs, they can lose their jobs, they can lose their wages if they don't belong to HDZ or if they dare to express a different attitude. It happens to them every day. Thousands and thousands of Croatian officials experience exactly that fate. Citizens know that HDZ has abused secret services and are afraid of happening again. Is their fear justified? Unfortunately, I'm afraid so. These services were arranged, there are no more scandals with them, the elected leaders who have started to act professionally were just driving people out of these services who have disgraced these services and who have awakened the suspicions of the citizens, and the law on these services is changing, and in what way? In a way to reduce civil surveillance. Why? Secret Service surveillance has four degrees, four sights. First, it's professional surveillance, professional surveillance. It's performed either by the executive authority or by this UNS, so anyway, there's no one against it. Let the government itself, let the executive government organize its own mind to professionally control the secret services. The second is judicial oversight because, nevertheless, the Supreme Court judges decide to apply secret measures and executive powers without a judgment can do nothing. The third is parliamentary oversight, parliament is just as the Constitution says and through its Committee on Internal Policy. And the fourth degree is civil or civilian surveillance. Only two of these four surveillance teams are completely independent. It is civil surveillance and it is judicial oversight because parliamentary oversight is carried out by the parliamentary majority and professional supervision is exercised by the executive authority. And we can only take them conditionally as surveillance in the right sense of the word. Well, now, the question is why civilian surveillance is being reduced. In the proposal, in an explanation, we have not heard a word of reasons in oral presentation, which motivates the promoter to reduce civilian surveillance after the painful experience that the citizens of this country had. To whom this civilian surveillance bothered, unless there was an evil intention. But if they're not there, and I'd like to believe they're not there, return until the second reading civilian surveillance to that level, to the level that exists now in the existing law. You have no reason to cut it, but none at all. The second thing, parliamentary surveillance doesn't exist, he doesn't exist if the president of the National Security Committee is not an opposition. No, because then most of them control themselves, then she controls nothing. Then she's actually hiding. Well, of course, the parliamentary majority will try to protect their government, so if the government does something to blow up the parliamentary majority that supports it, so they won't be happy to admit it, they'll try to hide it as much as they can and as long as they can. That makes perfect sense. Therefore, parliamentary surveillance only exists then, then and only if the chairman of the National Security Committee is an opposition. And now what is proposed? It's proposed to postpone. And why is that? Do we have an explanation, too much, logical, acceptable explanation for what delay? If the promoter realizes that the opposition representative must be at the head of that committee, why is he delaying this solution, why if the intentions are not dishonest? The only possible, only logical reason why this would be delayed is to control the services by the time of the next parliamentary elections and use it from the pre-election period, and to disable parliamentary oversight of them. So don't let the citizens think that about you. So don't do yourself any harm needlessly. So throw this one out until the second reading. Give parliamentary oversight to the opposition as you suggested, but without delay. Send a message we want to be fair in these elections, we will not abuse the secret services again, we have renounced these practices, we do not regret that Ivić-Pasalić was not on the Committee on National Security. Send such a message, not cry for Ivić-Pasalić. There's one solution that the practice has shown that needs to be corrected. It's a designation, a co-signation of a designation and a co-signation of a resolution. It's pretty clear about the appointment. They both need the president and the prime minister. In solving the case, Podbevšek showed absurdity. He lost the president's trust but had the prime minister's trust for a while. It can't be. When one of the two loses confidence in the head of the service, he has to leave the service outside. The resolution would be sufficient to sign one of either prime minister or president because the head of the service cannot be in office either as president, or as prime minister, cannot. He must trust both of us. So to appoint a subsign, only one signature is enough for a resolution. There's just one thing I'm going to say. This Regulation shall enter "When security intelligence officials collect data in communication with citizens must be legitimateised." Okay, that was worth it when they were separated. Well, then, the Anti-Intelligence Agency clearly needs to legitimize to its citizen. But now you've brought them together. So this is also true for the intelligence agency agent now, so we can imagine that he, for example, in a foreign country, will have to present himself in Belgrade under this law, say "Good afternoon. I'm an agent from Croatia. I'm asking you to give me this information." Is it? That's what you wrote in the law, that he's bound to legitimize himself. And introduce yourself as an agent. Come on, I mean, you've joined the service, and you didn't see that when the mergers stay, so correct that nonsense to another reading so that people don't laugh at you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63895	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63896	Thank you very much. In his first part of the hate speech, Mr. MP incorrectly stated: "Supervised citizens by HDZ." Yeah. I'm documenting. "Supervised citizens using the abuse of the Croatian Democratic Community", he said three times. Mr. Staciæ, that's not true. The Croatian Democratic Community has not supervised anyone. You have supervised because I have found my name in the list of those who are a potential threat to the state at the time your government was on, and your party in power. So the SDP was overseeing us who were creating a state called a potential threat to the state. What do I want to tell you? They didn't abuse parties? They abused individuals. Let us fight them together, not accuse each other of such hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63897	Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63898	Your Honor, Mr. President, I just have to say what Mr. Stazic was saying. It is true that there has been abuse of service for political purposes until 2000, but for that part, they cannot be responsible employees, authorized persons in those services. These were primarily the leaders of these services together in the function of politics. But unfortunately, Mr. Stazic, that proved the same thing, it happened during the former government, even though you weren't in charge of that part of the intelligence community's portfolio. Let's remember those spectacular actions themselves when the HIS employees were naked in Kunisčak, when they were fired for nothing. So it wasn't even that part that was made to introduce one effective surveillance and that's right, Mr. Jarnjak, but we can say that we don't care about it before or now these arguments. That's why we're asking for this whole surveillance thing now. We also remember this action that I was already talking about, listening not only to Mr. Hebrang and Letica, that part of the tracking. They were bishops, bishops of the Catholic Church, top athletes who had been put by someone in the secret service that they were conspirators, that they were destroyers of the state. So these dangerous things happened. Unfortunately, they're happening to this day. So let's draw that line today and rule out politics completely from the intelligence community. To perform effective surveillance because then we will restore trust to Croatian citizens in the work of the service. But I'm saying we can't say that they were members. The problem was leaders and politics. Common people, Croatian defenders, patriots were never a problem. And one and the other authorities fired them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63899	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63900	Dear counterpart Kovacevic, I didn't say they were the leaders of the service. I made it clear that it was HDZ. Despite his colleague Hebrang thinking it wasn't HDZ, it was individuals. So that individuals but individuals from HDZ certainly. Because of who else? It was the only ruling party to control those services. What are they doing with those individuals after they did their party thing? Which, in 2000, in 2000, was a seduction of order into the intelligence community. The law has been passed, civilian surveillance has been made, parliamentary oversight has been made. It took time to get these services and I did it now, and here I confessed it. Those last and now for the term of office of Sanader's government work neatly. Now, right now. Today I believe they work neatly and don't break the law. It took time to get them in line, and that's why I don't understand why they're changing something that's doing good? What is the need to amend a law that is in line with European regulations? And what, in these changes, instead of making things better, does it strengthen if it still needs to be reduced somewhere else? That reason, those reasons I can't possibly understand. I can't figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63901	Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63902	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I would still like to believe that we are discussing a serious very important law. And I will try to talk about it in a slightly different way because I think it is important for citizens to really see its full meaning and its true role in today's contemporary world in the Republic of Croatia that is approaching Euro-Atlantic integration, and from that aspect come serious requirements regarding the improvement of legislation and the action in this area. We know that dramatic changes have taken place on this global security scene in recent years. Nothing's the same as it used to be after 9/11. And because of this change in legislation, strengthening the capacity of the security intelligence system is one of the priorities that imposes a wider international community on each country in particular those who seek to be as soon as possible before the full members of the European Union and NATO. And these demands are fully justified and represent a common interest in the wider international community. What seems to me to deserve attention and not sufficiently highlighted in these discussions is the link between terrorism and illegal trade. The illegal trade today represents one of the major threats to the modern world and has its most diverse forms of drug trafficking, weapons, and military equipment especially light weapons. Smuggling people, women, children, smuggling nuclear materials, and a lot of other things that poses a security threat. The goods of dual purposes are subject to special legislation and restrictions. But also not only goods, materials, drugs, weapons, but also knowledge. Knowledge that can be used unfortunately for the production of biological weapons, bioterrorism, nanoterrorism, nanoterrorism and so on. These are the threats we face, and they require special attention. Special responsibility, efficiency and quality in the work of the security and intelligence system. Through this system of illegal trade, terrorism is funded and this is what is not sufficiently highlighted, not sufficiently recognised as an objective threat and as the responsibility that we all have sitting in the Croatian Parliament, which we participate in political life, I would say all together. Maybe you don't know, and that's why I'm going to stress the value of illegal trade is estimated to be about $680 billion a year. What does that mean? This means that there is one parallel legislation, one parallel economy that has its own interests and objectives, and unfortunately these objectives endanger not only the regulatory economy, but also today's modern system and the international community as a whole, and certainly individuals and individual states, and that is something that requires special attention and responsibility. We haven't talked about it enough. So-called border security, preventing proliferation through borders. One of the strongest requirements the Republic of Croatia will meet very quickly in the negotiations on accession to the European Union, so-called Border security on land but what is less known is illegal proliferation through the Croatian sea, nautical tourism as one form of threat through which unfortunately inadmissible activities occur. And now, it seems to me that in this context we are not aware of the importance and responsibilities of these laws and of all those changes that are ahead of us. I remember in 1994 I never had any experience in my life with the security and intelligence system and services, but in 1994 it was unusual, very unusual for me, when Croatia already had and established good co-operation with the United States, somewhere in the autumn a senior US delegation from the US Force Command in Europe came to Zagreb and we discussed security problems in these areas. Then an admiral approached me and gave me a red book and said, sir, this is very important. Do whatever it takes to translate what you can before, but not just translate it, but act according to what it says in that book, and that book was called the “Security Program Regulation” which is nothing more than what we are talking about today. NATO standards that have defined the work of intelligence services so that they can work together and have a level of mutual trust that is very important so that all of those problems that we were facing at that time with different aspects. Unfortunately, the book has been translated for years, and even slower what was written in that book has been carried out. And for this reason, with full justification, the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been stepped up these days, and many others, above all, to introduce and propose to the Croatian Assembly a set of laws that would significantly improve the security system through the work of security intelligence services through the introduction of new standards, but also not only organisational changes but also other relevant laws that we will unfortunately discuss in the next cycle of parliamentary debates, and these are very important laws that cannot be considered separately in relation to the Security and Intelligence System Act. The information security law in the procedure shows certain weaknesses and discussions of all these laws as a whole in order to establish that they are mutually harmonised functionally, organisationally, but particularly from a rationality aspect. There are significant opportunities to improve a lot. The importance and actuality of these efforts, I would also like to illustrate with a recent statement, with recent talks at the defence ministry when a senior NATO official said. Tomorrow, to get an invitation for NATO, you will not enter NATO until you adopt a new set of laws, but until you meet all those standards imposed on those laws. In the implementation of these laws, we must certainly, as serious and responsible people, take care of individual, human rights that must be fully protected in this extremely sensitive and important business. Let me just remind you, these days in the European Union and in the Member States of the European Union, they are very complex, and I would say a sharp, conflicting debate on the so-called ... So, to what extent and for how long to retain data recorded on the Internet to enable subsequent analysis and reconstruction of all possible security threats, so-called. Computer forensics and a lot of other things. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] The so-called Information System Security Agency proposes legislation that would be such a character that data recorded on the Internet must be stored for 6 to 24 months. This certainly causes certain technological changes, it also causes certain financial costs and these are new forms that will require further discussions in the Croatian Parliament as well. But here's the end I'd say next. It seems to me that this set of laws can be improved through one joint work and conversation, because the Information Security Act I have carefully read it to any amendments cannot be updated to meet certain standards, especially those relating to terminology and compliance with other laws. Different organisational forms can be improved through this cooperation. I'm just going to mention very briefly this national authority that's related to computer data analysis can be reduced to the Information System Security Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63903	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63904	Well, I'll try to pick up where I left off on behalf of the club. So, let me remind all of us. So, the conflict between security and freedom for each parliament is a challenge, so I think it is also a challenge for our Parliament. Often in the discussions so far, I do not really understand the role of the entire legislative authority in the role of national security, in the function of intelligence services. Actually, I'm going to try, and at the cost of being misunderstood by things to the ground, I'm going to strip. The interest and tasks of parliament are not to worry about whether intelligence services and the entire segment of the state are functional or whether they are doing well and how they work in quality. But first of all, it is in the interest to oversee the work of those services to work in accordance with the law. That and the subject if you open any textbook, any literature is actually about that. Whenever parliament is mentioned in a segment of national security, surveillance is always discussed in the intelligence department. So on that trail, I think, first of all, that this Parliament that should be the advocate of human rights should be kept in mind, in fact, to ensure that these human rights work. I'll try a few sentences again to get back on the subject of surveillance. You see, and perhaps you suggest to the Proposer that he consider how to make things happen in advance. If there is a committee that should be supervised, I am talking about parliamentary democratic surveillance of secret services, I think it should be possible, above all, to enable it to be relevant in the amount that is normal, therefore, familiar with production, or what intelligence services are doing. So far, it has been a practice, and in future solutions, it actually turns out that only on its own initiative will the committee actually be able to carry out this surveillance. I don't think that's a good solution. Experience over 10, 15 years has actually shown that unless the board has had that information, it can't work. It can't even act preventively. There is also a way of preventive action. If you will, in my opinion, the role of the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy should have one dimension and where it is carrying out key supervision and through which it performs key supervision in all European and global parliaments, which is to assess the item of the budget for secret intelligence services, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security suggests. Because actually the issue of finance is an important matter of regulation of work. For example, here we now hear how the new service organisation will contribute to better efficiency and efficiency. I hope so. But we'll only see it when the budget is adopted according to that new scheme and how much that's going to cost. So, I don't plead and it would be good not to talk about the past, although the past should not be ignored when we talk about this subject, but I think it would be good to talk about the metrics and what should be done so that what is happening to us in, through history, or even closer and further does not happen. Or let's just say, maybe we should think about it once, it's not like we've never talked about it at the Parliament, we've closed a session of the Parliament, and eventually we've tried to discuss all the dimensions that were before, which are now and perhaps public talk about it once, and that all things and all the cards are put on the table. Now it's a matter of responsibility and of us as an agent whether at one of those sessions, we discuss what we hear and say we can keep it to ourselves, so that it doesn't leak out again. The question of the public is being raised as a key issue of supervision. You see, we have about this situation, that our entire area of national security is closed. And then someone was talking about mystification and then creating a space for mystification. You see, in the world, all your relevant services have speakers. They also publicly inform the public about the work of the service. A team before certain findings are made today, certain analytical estimates work over 70% based on open data, from the Internet, the media and newspapers. So less than 30% is what is secretly collected by measures. Therefore, according to my assessment, it is not good that all committee sessions are closed. Here, then the press is waiting there, so they hear each other, they hear each other and then they make stories. So, I also plead that it would be good for this sublegal committee to have the right to give an opinion. Because in some of the cases we've had, not so long ago, it's actually proven that the intelligence regulations were one of the causes of certain negativity. Second, as far as the Supervisory Council is concerned. Since I was the one who advocated him when we built it into the old law, I'm going to say what his intention was and to what extent his role was achieved. First of all, the Council was conceived as an independent body that was neither imagined as any team of experts who should be able to determine whether someone had been violated, whether it was this or that. They had, for me and today, a task to indicate certain things and then to the council, that is, the National Security Office and all other bodies to actually ask them to be shown. But what happened? It happened next. That the sublegal act actually made the Council de facto committee of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Two examples, the President of the Council, who is obliged to keep a secret cannot, for example, come out publicly. So he can't say anything publicly, or what's secret, or what's public. You can't even talk about what he's doing unless the board president gives him that opportunity. Every six months, the board reports to the President of the Parliament what he's doing. Normally we never discuss it because it's so written in those papers that the president has no obligation to put it on the agenda. On the other hand, the way of work is defined as taking the decisions of the council to the half-members. So we don't have a president for a year and a half. Now one of the members has been on the road for seven months, and that council actually has one blockade. But I claim that despite all these blockades, the council has justified its function and that it should, if not with a larger one, and at least with existing powers, remain in this law. I think we are now given the opportunity and I really appeal that this law, with minimal changes, can actually happen to get it very high quality, to get it in that sense that all MPs in my opinion will be able to accept it. But normally, given the position of the promoter, I hope they'll take care of it. There are also some other laws that we will soon receive in the House. Just to mention another finding from one law. So in this law, it's said to be with the one who controls the confidentiality of the data. So now we're going to get the Data Securitisation Act, where secret information is not only about national security but also about the reduced effectiveness of individual authorities of the state administration. Now I'm wondering if the UNS will be competent to decide that I don't know that some state office, some state agency or some ministry is allowed or not to put a code of secrecy on some kind of internal act. So it seems to me that in this part a little too far in terms of interpreting people's rights to access information and that a little confusion had been made that in the segment of national security, what I think was actually not a matter of national security or public security, but actually the matter of the operation of the public authority body was I don't know that it was about the government, this and that. So I end up in a way that it would be good if those who propose this law might not only respect what we're talking about but I don't know that there's some kind of round table that would make sense more that it was before all this than, let's say later, but to think about actually talking about some things one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63905	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63906	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here through the work of the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security are my only experience related to this matter, but all I want to do is look back at the proposal of the Security and Intelligence Act of the Republic of Croatia. This matter has so far been regulated by the Law on the Security Services of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 2002, then adapted to that law by the security and intelligence system so far, by including standards that ensure effective protection with the Constitution of guaranteed human rights, which is reflected in the introduction of the Supreme Court institution which approved the application of the measures of secret data collection. For the first time, the same law introduced and implemented a constitutional solution whereby the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia participate equally in the direction of the work of security services, through the institutions of the National Security Council and the Security Service Coordination Council. The law also introduced a professional and administrative body of the National Security Council, which enabled the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to serve in the preparation of meetings, carry out professional and administrative tasks, but for the same purposes, professional surveillance of the work of security services was carried out. Furthermore, the Civil Oversight Council was introduced, but as we have heard, unfortunately it was formed only two years after the law was passed. Of course, we can guess about the reasons, but it is also the fact that the leaders of the security services are also appointed by a year and a half late. The application of this applicable law over four years has also seen some shortcomings that seek to address this new Proposal for a Law on the Information Security System of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, instead of the current two civil-intelligence security services of OA and POA, the establishment of a single SOA security-intelligence service is envisaged. This proposal is on the trail of similar solutions from countries in the environment, and will be particularly effective in the Republic of Croatia for several reasons. First, in the current conditions when the Republic of Croatia seeks to join the European Union countries, there is an old classic division of jobs in the country and in foreign affairs. By escalating behaviour in the society of particularly organised crime, international terrorism, corruption, money laundering and proliferation, the problem can no longer be seen from the aspect of being viewed and processed by the Anti-intelligence Service operating in the country and the Intelligence Service acting exclusively abroad. The new situation has led to the loss of rigid division and the need for internal and external services. The new establishment of the joint service will greatly increase efficiency in preventing and detecting the above-mentioned objectives of the intelligence services. Furthermore, the need to double the management staff, logistics and technical staff, operational and technical personnel, etc. ceases. All of this will greatly reduce, in fact leave room for the new united service to best and best quality personnel to focus on operational work. Also, this solution ceases a major problem identified by the application of the current legal solution, which is coordination between services in particular regarding the establishment of cooperation with foreign security and intelligence systems. This role has been played solely by the Intelligence Agency so far, which, among other things, could have led to a lack of understanding of foreign services that wanted to cooperate with, say, the Anti-Intelligence Agency and had to be implemented through the Intelligence Agency. This way, this cooperation will be faster and simpler and more effective. As for surveillance of security intelligence agencies, surveillance of agencies is shared we've already heard it at four levels. I'll mention here three, so professional, parliamentary and civil surveillance. Professional oversight in the jurisdiction of the National Security Council Office, which significantly increases the powers of this proposal of the law. In addition to the competences for the areas of legality and the handling of security agencies, the Council's office shall also be responsible for the issues of effectiveness and purpose of work and for the achievement of the prescribed and targeted objectives. Parliamentary surveillance would continue to be carried out through the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, with the Committee having the possibility of direct supervision. The law is a well-regulated and sensitive matter of indulging in the Constitution guaranteed civil rights and freedoms. In this respect, the Civil Surveillance Council continues to play an extremely important role in overseeing security agencies according to the representations of citizens and institutions of civil society. In addition, the fact that, in the preparation of the Civil Surveillance Council law, it established and proposed four objections to the proposal for a law of which three are respected and are an integral part of this bill. The legislator should consider and consider possibilities and further remove the possible doubt left by Article 110(6) and (7) concerning the fact that a representative of the Civil Surveillance Council may take part in monitoring the exercise of supervision by the Office of the National Security Council, when the Civil Watch Council finds doubt about the threat of human rights in a way that the word "can" replaces the words which will unequivocally enable the participation in the surveillance. In each law of this kind, the regulation of the measures of secret data collection which endangers rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution is of particular importance. This legislative proposal also provides for the approval of measures based on the decision of the Supreme Court. In terms of operationality, an extension of measures which are no longer limited has been improved. Article 36(2) provides for the possibility of approving the measures for the secret collection of data which are otherwise in the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Justice to be approved by the Director, temporarily at 24 hours until the decision of the Supreme Court Judge. It is further stated that unless the judge approves the requested measure, the intelligence agency shall be obliged to suspend and destroy all documents and means in which the information they have learned through the application of those measures has been recorded. For operational reasons, this is a good solution, but the legal text does not clearly show how to control such cases. I think you should think about it. As far as security intelligence cooperation is concerned, I've already said something. With foreign security intelligence services, it was dealt with with the way in which this co-operation on the proposal of the Director of the Agency and, with the opinion of the Security Coordination Council, was approved by the National Security Council. It may be more operational and effective if cooperation is approved by the Security Service Coordination Council because it is a more frequent operational body. On the other hand, by respecting the facts arising from the obligations and tasks of the National Security Council described in Article 3 it is logical that these decisions are to be taken by the National Security Council for the services of important decisions. Finally, the new Bill of Law is, in any case, a step in adapting this topic to European Union countries that have similar or identical solutions. The law is acceptable and I think it satisfactorily regulates the subject of the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63907	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63908	Thank you, Mr. President, for your honor of the secretary of state, your colleagues and your colleagues. Why is the public particularly interested in discussing such laws that regulate the security and intelligence system, or agencies? Not because they are particularly interested, that is, in that they are offering some of their own special will to such agencies and security agencies. It's because of a very negative experience, which unfortunately during history and an ordinary citizen with such agencies and such security services has been dealt with. This Law should, at least so announced, introduce better European standards in the work of the Croatian Security Services and in order to achieve the goal of them and the Law, in order to finally start doing their job. But it's very important to emphasize here what they do for a living. Usually we have problems with various different institutions, democratic institutions that are still growing. We have problems with them, some slower, some faster. Generally, citizens have little confidence in them because they often do not do their job, or do no work at all. However, these services have always been agile, but not to do their job but to do what is not their job. And in this it is precisely some magical attraction of many of our Croatian husbands to conform to this kind of business or to be inserted into a committee or into those agencies, and so, because, as much as they are hated by citizens, ordinary people, yet somehow they create some kind of secrecy, they create some kind of power. But their power never stemmed from the law or from the nature of the work she was supposed to do. So we know what their job is. The job that regulates and this law is to deal with these security services. It is their job to act against terrorism, violence, extremism, foreign intelligence, endangering top officials, organised and economic crime, breaking state information systems, giving away classified information. It would be very interesting to see, and I don't know why it would be a secret, if one of these intelligence agencies were successful in their primary and only work. Not at all. Why? Because they were mainly used for political accounting not only of political inexperience but also of the same political options and parties. And why is that? So to have some information that has nothing to do with the security system, from the security of the country, but that person in one way or another, even the distorted information, because they are never fully and well collected, can serve as a political account. And that's nothing but a political racket, but a state terror. When a state, or when such mechanisms are in place and people through these systems, deal with such a business. And that was too much, and we'll all agree. But did anyone answer to that? It's not. Because, just under the past law, the current one we are trying to change has just begun to revive civil oversight and parliamentary oversight of these services. Now it needs to be contained. The truth is that they're better, we can all agree, and those who are better or less familiar with these agencies, but just because the new law provides for a security intelligence agency that would bring together the former U.S. and the P.O.A. and the military intelligence agency. So, in this organisational sense, it certainly is a better solution, or somehow by nature of things, it is imposed that it should be and it is a better solution. However, in other things, it is in these control mechanisms that things are drastically restored. And why is that? Is the government, is the government really ready to remove political influence from these agencies so that they can truly fulfill this painful and boring, boring job? It is therefore not a job which often invites the public to some classified special information because this is the data if the data of the security services they had had was a gynological examination of a journalist then it obliges us here on special care. Do we remember the end of 2003 before the parliamentary elections and the accusations that bugs, bugs that are being tapped by HDZ? As soon as power was obtained, it could therefore be thoroughly checked because it would remove not only the suspicion of the one who was suspected but possibly also of these agencies, but no one else was interested in it or the injured who were then triumphant after the election. It wasn't interesting anymore. As you can see today, we even have a report, or there are comments from intelligence, here from the POA, they were not interested at all, or they couldn't determine whether or not it was a special subject of their interest to see whether the CIA actually drove through Dubrovnik airport people who later said they were tortured. The damage to the territory or without their consent, they don't seem to care. In fact, they still write a denial that they didn't do it. Also, many things that are important for Croatia, the issue of privatisation is a key issue, especially in the further development of Croatia, but primarily because of this one issue which is immediately the very idea of a citizen creating a negative perception, also because of the negative experience we have and we still have. What are these intelligence services, it's the primary task would be to examine those who intend to buy, who are the owners, which is the capital, what is it, has that ever been questioned? In fact, we have a situation in the Liburnia case that, well, the government didn't even know about any data or opinions that even existed, but not from these services. This law wants to figure out as we heard from Mr. Jarnjak's mouth, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, that it was made by example to European countries and it can indeed look European in this organisational sense, but its application is not ultimately European or on this trail. Obviously, democracy here is still on hold with this authority, because we want to boast that we have modern solutions here that are on the trail of the most democratic countries, which have an opposition representative at the head of the parliamentary committee that is in charge of control, but we do not want to apply it. As of today, we have not heard the argument from the Government's representative, nor has it been written in this written text of the bill, which is why this application of the law is delayed, this provision. Today we heard from Mr. Jarnjak's mouth that it was because then the government was such that it had no such solution at all, so it would be very interesting to hear whether the government agrees with that argument so that, in the next proposal, we have such an explanation. That would be a very interesting piece of information, later when the students of the bug studied the way and procedure of passing the law and their explanation that something was delayed because the former government didn't do it, so we can act like one. It's really very original and interesting behavior, but it's not about that. It is that we are prepared here to pass laws that are corrupt because it is not corruption of political officials of the blue envelope, but the provision of certain syncurrencies and positions which otherwise do not belong to them, it does not belong under this Act, but according to the transitional and final provisions it will happen so that there will be a representative of the ruling HDZ until the next parliamentary elections again in that direction which I from my heart and wish for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63909	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63910	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleague Anticevic. I quote, "The last few years things have been drastically restored." That's not true. The organization of security services was restored in 2000 when you crashed the security system of the Republic of Croatia and created your system that was destroyed in 1990. That's the first one. Second, as far as bugs are concerned. They're not dangerous in listening devices, but bugs are more dangerous if someone's got them in their head.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63911	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63912	As far as bugs and bugs in the head are concerned, there's a song from Tychi "the bugs are in your head," so I'm gonna help you out here... , and the first thing I would like to replicate to an esteemed colleague is that there is no way to talk about the role of members of the security services, or intelligence community in the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this part of the work of members of the security services, i.e. the Homeland War intelligence community, there must be a special recognition because they were at the level, at the level of their tasks and roles and enabled the defence of the Croatian state, they enabled timely action by both the Croatian armies and the entire Croatian forces. So, I've never been there for that, and let's not take credit for the members of the intelligence community themselves, there's always been a problem for leaders who then acted on policy orders both before and for your authorities, and even now, even though it's getting smaller and smaller, but I have to point out here a big problem that hasn't been solved for the former authorities or for the current authorities, and it's about protecting the secrecy of the data. In fact, according to a valuable law that is still in force today and the former government, these should have appointed a council that would always have ruled out whether the information published in the press meant in the media, could be published, and unfortunately this council has not been appointed today, and therefore we have meant this inactivity as well as the former and current authorities have happened that we have also discovered important data from the Ministry of Defence and all other services that have only damaged Croatia, that embassies have been listening to other things that have hurt us a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63913	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63914	Dear counterpart Kovacevic, you will not like all the employees by twisting my words. I didn't criticise all the people here, but I was talking about something, about the abuses that took place within these services, and unfortunately, of which abuse is not immune to any institution or service. Thus, pointing to shortcomings, pointing to failures, pointing to illegality does not mean tarnishing the whole service. In fact, it means just to speak in favor of that service and on behalf of those people you spoke of but unfortunately not all of them. Nor did I say they were all like this. No, it didn't work out. It didn't work out because we know very well when we're talking, so they're all the same in politics, not everyone, not in the judiciary, not in these services. Because saying they're all the same means capitulating in advance to change anything at all. Because if they're all the same, there's no one to change them at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63915	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63916	I must say that I am a layman for this topic, especially when it comes to national security and remain and intelligence work. However, I will speak here from one perspective of the subject of the processing of various intelligence services and the chapter of the law that speaks of civil or civil oversight of the work of civil services. In general, I think there is one problem in Croatia with intelligence and culture that stems from the circumstances because it was a dominant political issue. If you look at professionals working in Croatia today, very few engineers, only two, three, practically one economist and is shown publicly as a plagiarizer. There are no lawyers, and this is mainly done by professors at the political college who are mostly family with some military intelligence signs and it is easy to recognize the handwriting of this pretentious law that they participated in his work. Today intelligence is becoming predominantly related to the transfer of technology business and intelligence work and the protection of wider national interests. This guy argues with me and they're gonna try to illustrate here with a personal insight into something I'm gonna call three in the dark. We all act like we live in a world where nothing happens. If you open daily and weekly newspapers for the past 15 days, they are flooded with alleged former UDBA and KOS associates. Everyone then kind of gossipy enjoys at home, among friends, in cafes saying you saw a picture of that in both that and that newspaper, he worked at UDBA and KOS. I'm one of our colleagues when I saw it before this session I approached him and asked what was true and what was a lie. The man told me I studied with that and that man and that's all I had to do with that incrimination. Therefore, I absolutely trust him and this dirty war of secret intelligence services since 90th, after 90th, and this year I will connect to the chapter concerning the structure of this Civil Surveillance Council on the work of the security services. Article 112(2) states as follows: "The president and members of civil surveillance agencies shall be selected from the order of non-party public figures highlighted in the fields of protection of human rights and the development of democracy, as well as from the order of scientists and experts in the field of rights and the protection of national security." At least due to the elemental competence of membership, several victims of the persecution of those funds, who were in prisons, exiled, etc. should be included. As far as this positive definition is concerned that someone from NGOs dealing with the protection of human rights is not contrary to the possibility and the fact that they directly threatened human rights. At the head of the Croatian Helsinki Committee is Mr. Zarko Puhovski who, by this legal definition, would be a candidate, a very prominent candidate for a member of the council even though he was a crown witness to our colleagues who earned heavy dungeons because of this. Therefore, in defining who can and who cannot be, discriminatory criteria should be laid down, at least seeking a statement from these people that they personally did not cooperate with secret services until the 1990s and that they were not involved in any way in harming individuals whose human rights were at risk at different times. As far as these discussions are concerned, they and I will give you three examples. In 1994, in the framework of the intelligence and security action "The Shepherd" on the occasion of the arrival of St. Father Pope, a very prominent member of the then military intelligence community in Croatia colleague of many of our fellow exiles in the political regime of the 1970s, the victim of the "Croatian Spring" approached me very excitedly in front of the City Cavanaugh and told me that he saw on the minister's table a list of people who should be tapped and stalked as potential assassins of the Holy Father and said that he would not have a peaceful conscience if he didn't tell me. That's when I went to the UNS. Back then, he was the president of the UNS, Mr Hrvoje Sarinic. I wrote him a letter, to the President of the Republic and to Nikica Valentis, who was the Prime Minister. And Hrvoje Sarinić received me very quickly and said he would check on what was going on. The late President Tudjman so likable said, "At last, the rule of law is working." and he was glad to see that the intelligence community is engaged in various enemies and Nikica Valentic as usual has silenced that fact. This man today, by these criteria, could have been at the head of this committee in perspective. If I had to sign this provision, it couldn't be. Another example here is the present Mr. Shima Lučina, who speaks very proudly of the period after 2000. I'll tell you how procedural it looked under current law. When I learned from the PDS, the Pučka Information Service said that about 50 people were bishops, athletes, Parliament Speaker Vladimir Seks, President Ivo Sanader and others were treated as potential destroyers of the constitutional order and state enemies, I very carefully submitted that submission to our Security Service Supervisory Council. The Council has issued some confirmation that my human rights have been compromised. That went to the board. The board confirmed that position and forwarded it to the state's attorney. And as it is said in the people, "The cat bit you, he didn't eat the donkey wolf, because you don't know who the donkey is and who the wolf is." But that's not gonna happen. And not only that, but during Mr. Shima Lučina’s reign, he was an eclectic example. If you bring back the idea of a state enemy and what happened in 2000, you have an even more absurd situation. The intelligence community always exploits the paranoia of people who are in power, who are logically concerned about their own safety and security of their own family. My friend calls me a small entrepreneur, a great Croatian warrior and a hero, a liberator of Knin, and says he is the subject of the persecution of the Croatian intelligence community. That at a hotel there in Kanjčević's Laguna with his friends he drank a little more and that in the story they said it would be best to kill Hansel Racan. They haven't given him a year of peace. I called Rank Ostovic. I said, "People got drunk." But not only that, it broke out in the paper, in all newspapers, that the intelligence community successfully prevented the assassination of Ivica Racan. Therefore, my lords, when you speak to me and you, I am prone to the position of Nenad Trazic, who is about to lift a plate for the replica that does not matter who is, what is the law but what are the people? And in this law you don't have a chapter at all, you don't have a chapter intelligence officer and intelligence officer, where security checks would not be put in the front row, but checks on their competencies. What modern people are they? When Tomislav Karamarko came as head of the intelligence community, I knew him from a banal situation because for three years we trained Nanbudo, he came to me proudly and said, "There are fantastic people in this intelligence community, fantastic people." What was missing? That the head of the secret service is not every other day on Croatian television, on New TV, in the Nightmare code, but simply not in public and exploiting those skills. Therefore, gentlemen, if you'd like to begin at Sponz. In Sponza, which was a historical and customs store and a Latin-language market, there is a sign: "As long as you are valid, it is valid". Therefore, when you speak critically about HDZ with which I did not have any good relations when I grew up with my dear late dictator, they were stalking me as you see, but this rudeness to see the stones in my own eyes and the persecution of Croatian prominent politicians of our Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, and that you are neglecting the fact that while the highest Croatian Parliamentman, Mr. Franjo Arabovic, with his family, was eating lunching that some kind of destination had been carried out and he would certainly publicly confirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63917	Thank you. A few replicas. First respected representative, Željko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63918	Well, I agree with my fellow Flightman that you and I shouldn't be sharing. However, I wanted only in one part of the discussion of my fellow Letica encouraged me to clarify some things. I think that's where we agree most of us in the assembly. How many para-intelligence groups we have that even have a listening apparatus for listening to citizens, listening to police, institutions, and so on. It has never been officially established or made public that any of them have been caught. I think it's the same big problem in the intelligence community. But we do know that many secret agents have great wealth, that many are sitting in counties, cities and state-owned enterprises. So by the power vested in me, I don't care who the government is? Is that yesterday, tomorrow, today? Simply secret agents can be secret agents, and after their service, you know what's next with them. Not that they sit in the county councils of the city, sitting in various businesses and getting rich. I think in that context, I support this debate, and that's why I'm essentially giving a replica to explain some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63919	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63920	And I... From the time of OZNA to the time of SUZUP or I don't know the SIS and the times of these, perhaps not the last generation being in the Intelligence Community meant gaining the privilege of wealth. [[I don't understand the speaker.]] It's really... And the other problem is, I will quote the position of the great American General Joseph Garret who, at the request of the US and Croatian governments, worked on behalf of Croatia on behalf of the storm. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is what the man wrote: "Unfortunately for national security strategies in Croatia there is no fully developed theory of statehood or there is a recognizable doctrine for the development of national security." That's our problem. We don't know what it means to have a state?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63921	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63922	Thank you very much. I remember some time not so long ago, some, somewhere it was the beginning of 2000, in the middle of 2000 when many employees and participants in public life in Croatia were disappointed because they were not subject to the processing of secret services. That was an interesting situation for you. "How could they not?" I say, "You probably didn't mean anything in the space of political or public life, so they didn't listen to you." I think that here in this Croatian Parliament we are talking about this topic or we are not allowed to talk about someone else, we must rise. I was quoted by anyone above the coffee shop stories. "Modus operandi," when the Secret Service wants to make a fuss, then find you a reporter or I don't know who, and then he shares some of the people he has to share some papers with, you know? Then who's going to make a big deal out of it? And then you get a big deal about it. Let's just say I'm surprised that fellow Letica didn't mention the murder or the assassination attempt on Prime Minister Sanadar? It was much more written than the assassination of Prime Minister Racan. It's another thing. The council, it's the only thing relevant to me. The council, I don't know, surveillance has finely established that there have been no secret measures. If Mr. Letica suspects it, let her ask for a super audit, or let that story be told again. I have no reason to defend the council, but they explained it nicely there. That came from the POA. They didn't suck it out of their fingers if there wasn't any covert measures. Now we can talk as much as we want and what we want but there were no secret measures. And those who have been published are not important to you. The ones that haven't been published are important. The right of intelligence services never disintegrates and publishes their names. It should always be kept in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63923	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63924	It's highly cynical, Mr. former Home Secretary, that you say that the matter is too prestigious, and you're listening to someone, working and stalking. You should be ashamed of that thesis! And if you pull me again by the tongue, I'll tell you something about the constant closures and guarantees you've given me about providing medical assistance to people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63925	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63926	... Leticia, I just said that's what people came to tell me. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] I can tell you which one. Therefore, but I have no reason to. So, I'd like to ask you to protect the integrity of the MPs because the MPs here are offended or guilty or indemnified. You don't need to lose your temper in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63927	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63928	Dear fellow Letica. Intelligence can be manipulated in different ways. A classic way for the government to abuse intelligence services against its citizens, but there is another way, and that is that certain public figures, individuals, abuse the existence of intelligence services to draw attention to themselves and to talk about how these services are haunted, how they're spying on them. A classic example of that was '99. the years in this House in front of the press. A press conference has been called. HDZ called her and said no '99. I don't know what Racan's government, then, in 2003, that bugs were set up in Parliament. After the change of government was won, the journalists did find the bugs, which is with the bugs. President of the Parliament says what it was when we were in the opposition we spoke. A classic example of how to manipulate the public in order to draw attention to themselves and actually distort security services that are not guilty, nor have they set up bugs, nor have they listened to anyone. Nothing, a fictional story. If we have a council of oversight, we can talk about whether it's well-assembled or not, but we have to trust it. If we don't trust him to change the law, let's change the composition of the council. But if it's in your case, or if it's in the case of the Assembly Bugs or tomorrow in my case. If the Board of Supervisors says there has been no secret measures, then forgive my colleague Letica irresponsiblely, irresponsibly to leave doubt on the secret services that they are being used against the law and that is not the case. Therefore, this kind of exhibitionism should be avoided on the burden of intelligence services.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63929	You should avoid even more than that and these investigations on my behalf that I've spoken on the question after the election. We were in opposition. So you're suggesting like I said we built it. That's not true. At that press conference, these bugs were shown and shown, and the fact that you don't want to see them now is another thing. Bugs are often invisible, sometimes visible. The reply to the replica, peace there, respected representative Nenad Stazic, this Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63930	And you see how the public is manipulated by fellow Stazic. And the Board of Supervisors, the civil oversight of the security services and the board of directors concluded that my human rights were at stake, and I was one of the 60 who failed to submit that submission. If you're asking me, I'm going to see State Attorney Bajic tomorrow to see what kind of threat he's taking in that regard. Therefore, do not manipulate!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63931	And distinguished representative Franjo Arabovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63932	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've been called twice this morning, so I'm going to explain some things about these intelligence services that I liked. I liked sitting with my wife, my rightful wife at dinner, one hour a night next door, there was a girl, now my wife's legal. Yeah, and we're sitting at dinner next to Sinj at a hotel somewhere around 1:00 a.m. on a helicopter night, gentlemen living truth. I don't know what spiders are. Full military equipment. Now I found that interesting. They're coming to the hotel. In us we sit one 30 top athletes from all over Croatia, with women, with girls either way we sit. We're not talking, we're listening to music, and they've reported that there's a rally here where there's a military coup. The reason we've signed a petition to help our generals, which I would sign today and I'm not ashamed of, but I'm proud of it. So it's true alive and there's no bugs, there's nothing there, and what the success of all of us was that. Because we disarmed those guys, took off those masks that they had and sat with us until the morning at the restaurant and insulted those who sent them, because at two o'clock in the summer they were lifted up. So this one, and only in the end, to say, in 2001, to the esteemed Mr. Slaven Letica. What you said was great and I'm glad you said about the former president that the dictator is, but not the former president of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63933	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63934	I thank my colleague, Arabovic. I asked him to let me... And I'm glad to know, which is a small segment of the mosaic of the covert service abuse from 2000 to 2000. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, Sima Luchin did not know at all about a large number of abuses, and he told me on several occasions that he practically did not know what was going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63935	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63936	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much for trying to take my time, but it didn't work. The first thing I have to realize is that here today I have heard a lot of ex post wits, subsequent minds about how and how the intelligence community was supposed to operate in Croatia, and that means that Croatian citizens have a lot of confidence in the intelligence community. I can say that because I am not personally interested in why the former government did not immediately give the leader, that at the head of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security he was a representative of the opposition and that the opposition had a majority. So that's no reason for me. If we have the opportunity to do this now, let's do all these things that will lead to us having an intelligence community that will primarily be in the position of Croatian citizens, and at least in the function of politics. We heard, I also said on behalf of the club that this is what is the worst that Croatian citizens and predicate and understand that unfortunately intelligence services were in function of politics. So those who are in power. Here today we have heard many such examples and this is bad for both members of the intelligence community and for restoring trust for Croatian citizens in the functioning of the intelligence community. So, the best one is that intelligence community that is little known and in which citizens have confidence. That's what we should be trying to do. To do so, we must have not only legal solutions but we must also have people ready to do so. The first thing that is the worst, which always bothers me in all the legal proposals, i.e. the reasons when it is said, is that we must do it either for the sake of the European Union or for NATO's sake. Well, first of all, we have to do it for the sake of Croatian citizens, for the sake of the Croatian state, and I don't care what we need to do for the sake of the European Union or for the sake of the NATO Alliance. First of all, we do it for our sake, for the sake of Croatian citizens, and then if they're satisfied, it's their business, and it's not our business anymore. And first of all, I have to look back on this, too, that no one today mentioned the cases of members of the security services, or the intelligence community, which are within the meaning of General Gotovina's action plan for... British intelligence communities were designated as the people who sabotaged that action and everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing has ever been proven, and they all ended up on the street. They all ended up on the street, and neither did the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discuss it, nor did the Committee on Human Rights discuss it. And these people write to all of us board members every day. Some also have the rulings of the Administrative Court, such as Radovan Palmovic, Major of the Croatian Army. And nothing's going on. What about their rights? What about their human rights because they got fired from the service on the basis of the MI6 intelligence community saying they were in the post of protection of General Gotovina? And that's not proven at all. Let's talk about these people. There's a lot of them, they write every day. There's a case of Mr. Yukica who also left the service, you don't know why he left the service. There's no valid explanation. So all these cases point to what I was saying. That we need to establish a full surveillance function on the work of the intelligence community, and that is not so much evidence yet is that today let's say this bill, which is not a package, because there should be at least three other legislative proposals here in front of us on the protection of the information systems and everything else, so that we can systematically discuss and see what it will bring tomorrow, related to the security intelligence community. It defends employees, i.e. State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice who have not even worked on this law. This proves that we do not have a person in charge of national security, or intelligence. And that's a great regulation. It's a major failure and that part must also be changed. Because we saw for ourselves, and according to the numbering, I said that James Bondovska is the numbering of pages 1/32, 2/32, that it was not done at all by the representatives of the Justice Department. It was particularly funny to listen to them on committees on legislation, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security where we asked them professional things, which they unfortunately do not understand. And therefore, let's get back to the point. For me, the key is five things that will personally be the most important thing for me if I vote in the second reading, the final proposal for this law. First of all, the chairman of the board must be of the order of opposition from the entry into force of the law. There's nothing left to wait for. Secondly, it should be considered that the opposition also has a majority on such a committee, because it will not happen that all the affairs that were, which have not been investigated in the end, have always ended up under the rug of the whole situation. So you remember that presentation "Turek" where it was even suggested that members of the security services were guilty of not co-operation with the UN tribunal in The Hague. I mean, it was such a crazy thing that Mr. Markov and I and Shime Luchin could barely get out of the loop. The other is the important thing. Why is it important to be of the order of the opposition? As a result, in all cases, when imposing up to 24 hours on which they have the power to listen in secret, the services should immediately inform that the Supreme Court judge to whom, within those 24 hours, the order and the chairman of the Board which is of the order of the opposition must be sent. The fact that such a committee president must first and foremost pass one key security check. So we don't put a man on board who's gonna deal and give secret information, which is a big problem. We need to be aware of that. The same situation also refers to covert monitoring measures, concerns those situations of receiving phone calls reports and everything else. It also needs to be known when that part is required to go to the chairman of the opposition committee. So he can always react in due time if it comes to any abuse. And we know that services are always like that. In all countries in the world, they serve and are in the service of politics, but this should be reduced to the least possible measure. Then such a single committee will always be able to see whether these measures are of secret importance to listening to and all that falls within the scope of human rights restriction, in each report when submitted at the end of the year whether they were justified or not justified. And that way we can stop all these things in time. The second thing is about the Civil Surveillance Council, that is, citizens' supervision by new ones. They must have authority, not only at the request of the citizens, but must have authority and may, under official duty, take measures to determine whether, in any particular case, human rights have been violated, or if they have been unlawfully applied to it, by means of covert surveillance measures, whether covert listening or what may already be current at that time. And then, in such cases, they should be entitled to direct insight and supervision in that part, along with the normal representatives of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. With the fact that I can't get into situations with a network of intelligence communities and other things, because they, I mean, these are the things where secret information would be echoed. And I'm saying, and this is also the important thing at the end of what I have to say, those transitional and final provisions have been made very badly. So let's figure it out once, and I'm also telling all the members of the intelligence community, don't play James Bond, James Bond is just in the movies. She's the best intelligence community that no one knows what she's doing, how she's doing, that's how she's gonna know she's doing it. And I say that sentence known when recruits are members of the intelligence community either in the United States, or in the UK, when they tell him, whatever you do right, no one will know about it, we'll know about it, and you saved me, you helped the state, but, for everything you do, everyone will write and everyone will know. So that's the most important part, not that James Bonds give us these or they're sitting in bars at football games. We had a case where the football court was James Bond and everything. We need to make that part so that the intelligence community has to do their job and there's no public place for them. It's the most important approach and the most important principle. So let's get back to saying eventually on this subject. These are key things for me, along with these other laws to finally put the Intelligence Community into office and to restore the trust of Croatian citizens in the work of the Intelligence Community, and not to do so because of what NATO is asking us to do, what the European Union is asking for, so they also asked in the "non paper" to fire these people, we fired them, and human rights are injured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63937	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63938	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In one case, I agree with the legislator of this law, which is that the applicable 2002 Security Services Act is very contained and fully regulated by the area of security intelligence. It is certainly difficult to agree with counterpart Zdenka Babić Petricevic's claim that the former government has reversed the intelligence community system. In fact, I agree with most of the contents of this proposal because it is actually a prescribed law, of course, with the adaptation of the current ruling set. Only four years after the current law was passed, someone thought that individual solutions to the law had become obsolete and did not meet the existing conditions for all security needs. No law is assumed to last forever, but it is not expected to become obsolete after four years. Why does any shift of government in Croatia mean changing the law in favour of ruling without any interest in the long-term benefit and interest of all citizens? One of the most important changes adopted by this law is the unification of existing intelligence and counterintelligence agencies with a security intelligence agency. This change is explained by the fact that POA and OA did not cooperate well in practice, which represented bureaucratic interference and slowing the flow of information to the detriment of efficiency and rationality of business. But that should not be attributed to the lack of a valid law but to the incompetence of directors and leaders in those agencies. Nothing really guarantees us that uniting inefficient and inefficient POAs and OAs into a single security-intelligence agency will improve communication and efficiency within the new agency, i.e. incompetent structures and the poor heritage of POA and OA to the next and emerging agency instead of amending the law. I think it might be more useful to replace people who are responsible for the bad situation in the intelligence system, not to adapt the laws to their incompetence. But one thing is certain, by joining two agencies into one, there will be too much power in one man's hands. So while some within the system of positions will be strengthened, some of the changes that this bill makes will lose on their importance. For example, the Council for Civil Oversight of Security Intelligence agencies will be called after the new Civil Supervisory Authority instead of strengthening and gaining greater power to lose and existing powers, and the future supervision of intelligence agencies will be possible only at the request of citizens, in such a way that when the Council finds that there is a reasonable doubt about the threat to citizens' rights is applied for in writing by the Director of the Security Intelligence Agency, or the OTC. So what's the point of the council anyway? Is that correspondence with the directors of security intelligence agencies? If that is his sole purpose, then I believe that a mere formality can then be completely abolished, because the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are capable enough to write their own request for a written statement from the director. In view of the affairs of intelligence services in the past 15 years when they have been misused for political and private purposes, the Security Intelligence Council should increase the scope of powers rather than raise them to the postal service. In the background of this change, it could be a fact that the council, or its president, has not yet been forgiven for its behaviour in the case of journalist Helena Puljiz in late 2004. The work of the Council under the applicable law is, among other things, to monitor the legality of the work of security services, to monitor and monitor the implementation of measures of secret collection of data restricting constitutional human rights and fundamental freedoms, to monitor legal arrangements in the field of national security in other countries, and to propose solutions for the improvement of legal legislation regarding the legality of the work of security services. I don't see any reason why the part-round work of the council comes down from existing powers to write letters to the director of SOA. In order for council members to be non-partisan experts, I believe that this body, or its members, should continue to protect human rights of citizens and be a civil surveillance mechanism for the work of security agencies that citizens should protect rather than endanger. I also consider a bad newspaper according to which the SOA Internal Labour Regulation is adopted by its Director, the VSOA Interior Regulation, the Minister's proposal on its Director's proposal, because so far the solutions under which these regulations are adopted by the Government, with the consent of the President of the Republic, are much better, so they should be retained because it gives yet another lever of control over the work of intelligence services. I believe that these and others in the discussion of the shortcomings mentioned in this proposal should be incorporated into the final proposal until the second reading, or at least leave them as they are now in the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63939	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. ... No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The tiles should be played very late. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63940	Mr. President. My colleague, it is not true what you said to Zdenka Babić Petričević about the destruction of the security services in 2000, but it was a reality, so I will shortly brief a few cases after the 3rd of January 2000. Under the reorganisation of security services, 120 security officers were fired one day. The meeting in Split was declared a coup. Dračevac was declared a coup. It's a letter from the General with a coup. The verification of the weapons of those people who defended the Croatian state without counting further what you did to individuals and coming home, and Mr. At that time, the Minister of the Interior under which the warrants were coming home at midnight and checking on the basis of whether you had a weapon, feared the whole family and not just an individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63941	Replica, respected representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63942	I give up, I give up the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63943	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63944	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sure my debate won't be as substantial as my colleague Lucin's debate, but not as vehement as my colleague Slavna Letica's debate. In fact, I'm going to look more at some of the principal things about this proposal for a law on the security intelligence system. The Croatian Security and Security System has attracted public and media attention in recent years, and that is often to affairs and scandals. The publication of data and original documents proving that the services, exceeding their powers, committed countless abuses, created a well-founded belief in the part of the public that the services are a powerful lever of the ruling structures used primarily to achieve their political, fractional and private, material interests. And that services, in particular security, act as a kind of political police whose purpose is to stalking and disabling political inexperiences. In addition to showing that the activities of intelligence and security services are not in line with the requirements of democratic order, affairs and their sensational processing in the media have negatively affected the possibility of more systematic discussions in political bodies, parties, scientific institutions, media and the general public on more relevant issues of the purpose and way of action of intelligence and security services. This also contributed to the legacy of the former long - term system in which the activities of these services were kept in the strictest secret, so the public was largely unaware of the way these services worked. The establishment of democratic relations has made it possible, however, to open the issue of intelligence and security services and their activities, but much further than the discovery of affairs and the demonstration of their carriers could not have occurred. For transition countries, the position of intelligence and security services is particularly sensitive. The wording of the earlier system led to social change has completely changed the position and functions of security intelligence services in those countries. Security services used to function as political police, they were party weapons, and as such followed the voice of the regime's most hated institution. Today, however, we cannot talk about the security-intelligence system as a weapon of the party, but we won't make much of a mistake if we call it the weapon of the ruling structure. Such a state of the security intelligence system is partly due to the fact that on wartime occasions some parties organised their own party intelligence and security activities. You know who he's thinking of. In such a very unfavourable social, political and security situation, it was necessary to access the creation of legal organisational and personnel conditions for the establishment of a new intelligence security system. The key difficulties in this work consisted in ambiguities and lack of knowledge and experience with a system that would be appropriate to the democratic order. But also in the lack of political will to truly create such a system. As a result, the information-security system in the Republic of Croatia is in a rather confusing state and it is high time to do something about it, and the first assumption is this thorough legislative regulation. Two are fundamental requirements that the re-establishment of intelligence and security services must meet. First, services must be so formed and run as to be maximumly effective and meet their task of protecting the country's security and preserving the democratic order. The political leadership of the country, as well as the public service must at any time be able to provide full, accurate and timely information on potential and active threats to national security, as well as assessments of ways of achieving vital national, political, economic, security and other interests. The services must also be at any time when they are able to eliminate national security threats in their prescribed work. Another fundamental requirement that must be satisfied is that services do not endanger the fundamental values and institutions of the democratic order they protect and that they are responsible for their actions to the democratically elected authority and the public. At the same time, compliance with both of these requirements is extremely complex as the requirements are to a good degree contradictory. Here once again comes the importance of quality regulation which is the assumption of meeting these precisely basic requirements. In order to be able to come up with and establish an appropriate system of intelligence services, the Republic of Croatia must discuss and develop several basic documents that regulate national security affairs. It's part of an intelligence and security service. The fundamental political document defining national security of national security tasks is certainly a national security strategy. The first priority strategy should set criteria for national security, determine what is considered to be a satisfactory state of national security. It is then necessary to define the tasks of national security, determine the ways and measures to be achieved, etc. In any case, this is neither a place nor a time to say what all the strategy on national security should contain and what it should look like, but I think it is important to say because of the simple fact that the Republic of Croatia still does not have the appropriate document, regardless of what the last government has adopted at the beginning of its mandate strategy. However, I note that the circumstances have changed so far and that, under the new circumstances, it would be necessary or a previous strategy to complement and correct or adopt a new strategy. This circumstance has reflected the strategic uncertainty of its intelligence and security services and is one of the reasons for the unsatisfactory situation in this sector. In order to ensure that intelligence and security services can have a clear objective of their activities and that they can be functionally functioning by the national security system, national strategy of the Republic of Croatia should first be adopted as a basic document that would give intelligence and security services the necessary legitimacy in their activities. And he would also present the most relevant programming document that would define both the objectives and the priority tasks of the intelligence and security services. Without this document, the adoption of this Law seems irresponsible and unprofessional, but the government seems to think that this is obviously not so important. The next act to be adopted after the strategy, the National Security Act as a normative act that would be complementary to the National Security Strategy as a programme act. It would identify, formalise and regulate relations between institutions and organisations forming a national security system, prescribe basic powers, responsibilities and tasks, and other principles, operational and structural issues of the national security system as a whole. Only then would it make sense to pass the Intelligence and Security Service Act to regulate the work of intelligence and security services. This way it's all something on the neck, on the nose, without any idea of the integrity of the national security system. The bill itself shows some progress, but the issue of parliamentary and civil oversight is still insufficiently resolved. It would also be a more quality solution if the SoA and OA's internal work regulations were continued by the Government with the consent of the President of the Republic, not the SOA Director, or the Defence Minister. The team would better regulate the area and there would be fewer opportunities for malfeasance. It is also unclear how the Ombudsman will be able to protect the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in procedures conducted in security services, and what is guaranteed by the Constitution for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63945	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramaric, 5-minute debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak, 5-minute debate, Club of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63946	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is certain that much has been said here today and I believe that a lot has been said and in good faith that the law would resolve as much as it is possible by law and by law to provide for all cases and by law to solve all those moments in which our services are located without at the same time being violated by fundamental human rights. However, it is also important to note again that the compatibility of our legislation with the countries of the European Union is one of the essential assumptions that we can fight together with these countries for security and for our countries. I repeat, there is no single country's security if there is no security in their environment and if they do not share the timely information that is necessary together, and also if they do not cooperate with each other. It's been said a lot at the expense of service and service until the '90s. So let me do it again and some things from 2000 to here, and that's one of the moments. You all remember that pile of files that were recorded on TV depicted as abuse of the former service and one of the people who worked in the system then complained that it was impossible, that those files were all true. The Security Services Supervisory Board, civil surveillance carried out on this request and concluded that 25 files had been formed against the law, unwarranted and that someone had to answer for it. It's the findings of the Civil Surveillance Council. It raises the question of what purpose and why it went into falsifying official documents, that one service engages in falsifying and knowingly misleading people, on the one hand, citizens who have been injured as their rights, and on the other hand against people who have done their jobs. On the question in one show why it was, why such things had not been processed was answered unfortunately it was all under the law. Unfortunately, or I don't ask someone else to provide it. Surely these examples serve only to prove themselves. That without sound and clear supervision, there is no service that will not commit and will not come into the situation, so that it will come into a situation to injure some fundamental human rights. It is certain that, between security and fundamental human rights, there should always be a balance that the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution are also realised, but that the safety of citizens and all those who come to us is also effective. I believe that the assumptions of this Law speak also when it comes to civil oversight of security intelligence agencies, it is good to read Article 110, which says that the surveillance of the security intelligence agency is considering the representations of citizens and associations, so the association, i.e. individual cases of endangering citizens' rights, has been added. So it is not a question of what they will do, but of how they need to do their ministry. It is not the narrowing of this right that they have already had, but the regulation clearly which way and methods can be used during their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63947	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63948	It's incorrect that it's 25 files for a simple reason because it's a matter of accessing what the file is. If the entire newsrooms are heard and supervised, then if individual journalists are singled out, so as not to see what one was so followed, and the other is not a completely different story. I understand the need of my dear fellow Capricorn to talk about this because he was in the whole story... I'm waiting for the court, it's been announced that I'm going to be called to court, that I'm going to be sued, and I'm waiting for that to be called into court, and I'm going to tell you exactly what was going on here for the simple reason, because it can be looked at very well together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63949	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63950	Your Honor, Mr. President, the words I have spoken are a quote from the Civilian Oversight Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63951	Final review, State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63952	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before, hopefully, the midday breaks and the continuation of the parliamentary debate allow me to look back on what is said today about the proposal for a Security Intelligence System Act and I would start, I hope I won't make a mistake... Agent Slaven Letica, if I'm going to make a mistake, which, quoting an American author, said that he said in his text that we Croats don't know what the state is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, now we can't depolize here, but I'd take advantage of it and say that we're still learning what the state is because we're a young country. In the human century, human years are still in puberty. The creation of a state is never easy, it is a great undertaking and requires a lot of patience and tolerance, and even learning on your own faults, and if you are still a country that is considered a country in transition, there is, in great change, a tendency of course, that existing services that still draw their origins perhaps from other systems, regimes and abuses. What this debate has shown today is that I will not return to the past, of course, because we are talking about a new law, which is that I was glad to hear during the debate that progress has been noticed in the practice and work of our security services. And that's what's important and important. No matter how good the law is until the service is operational professionally, until they work under that law and according to the rules of the profession, we won't have what we're talking about here today. So what was said here is a return of trust seems to me to show at least part of the debate that we are on the right track, absolute depoliticalisation and the removal of politics and professionalisation and rationalization of these services. Now I think it's exactly the right time to take a step further and with the help of this new Security Intelligence Act. When the services in their practice, in their work now consolidated the time to move forward, allow them to do their jobs even more professionally, to be even more efficient and to make the system more rational and not lose sight of it. We are a small country with great needs and the system should be such that, with efficiency, insurance and rationalisation and this is proposed to some of the measures of this law such as the merger of the two civil services so far. This is not the need for their control but rather the need in the first order of rationalization and better, more efficient removal of jobs. This law also opens up the possibility of further professionalising them, controlling those who work and of course leaving the service. There is no need to underestimate in any case, and the emphasis here was justified in overseeing these services. I do not think that these services should be mystified but those who are less present in public because by their definition they are called secret services should not be on the one hand, but on the other hand there should be really effective monitoring of the work of these services and all kinds of supervision of these services and professional about which there was not much talk but certainly civil surveillance. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not in any case advocate or propose, nor does it need to abolish civil surveillance. That would really be a step back. So, the government leaves civil oversight somewhat in a different area in force... which have now been said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm saying, I stress, it's important to stress that civil surveillance is not abolished or terminated. The fact is that none of the countries in transition did it because they did not recognise this need is sufficient reason or we need an excuse to end it. In fact, we need an example of how this can be done and still needs to be done. There's been a lot of objections, of course. This is the first reading of the bill. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will play an important role in parliamentary supervision and in some other authorities in carrying out this surveillance, in the common objective of both the High House and, in particular, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. And only in the final and final. I do not think it is bad that this law on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was defended by a representative of the Ministry of Justice. Why am I saying that? Because national security is much wider and there is no single minister, in Croatia as a small country it may not be necessary, which would be explicitly in charge of this area. Finally, the National Security Council also has defence ministers, both internal affairs and justice. But taking into account the fact that, right here in the parliamentary debate, the emphasis is placed on supervision so as not to harm fundamental human rights and the Ministry of Justice is responsible for the protection and monitoring of these rights is good that this law defends itself from this portfolio on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And in support of this, recently watching TV colleagues from the State Secretary and the Slovenian Ministry of Justice also explained their amendments to the Security Services and Secret Service Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63953	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue at 3:00. We will vote on the debated points Health Development Strategy 2006 through 2011 with that package of legislation on health care in that previous debate, about interpolation, about this very recently completed debate on this law. It's going to be a very short vote. And then we continue to debate the trust or mistrust of the Deputy Prime Minister. ... It's until the debate is over, after which there will be an immediate vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And tomorrow you know the program, but we'll say it in particular. Resume at 3:00. It's 13,37 hours. Proposal for a law on the security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals, opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 74 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 17 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63956	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The representatives of the applicant of the proposal to show no confidence to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Damir Polancec, consider it necessary to open a debate on the trust and accountability of the Vice-President of the Government and show him no confidence. Mr Polancec, Vice-President of the Government and Chairman of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, led the settlement process with privatisation and investment funds, Dom Holding and SN Holding, where he was neither legally nor consciously doing his job, thereby causing significant damage to the Republic of Croatia. Negotiating the settlement of the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Polancec did not take into account the findings of the State Audit, the documentation of the available Privatisation Fund, the state of the file in the State's Attorney's office's reports, the warnings of the State's Attorney's Office, and the adopted arbitration lawyers, and the above-mentioned agreements, he favored the Dom Holding and SN Holding, and to the detriment of the Privatisation Fund, and the reputation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and also publicly deceived the citizens. In addition to the fact that Mr Polancec was unconsciously and illegally doing his work and causing damage to the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63957	Just a moment, Mr. Linic. I'll have a five-minute break to get the MPs to follow closely. It's a five-minute stop. It's 3:12 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63958	Over 554 million kunas were paid under an alleged settlement contract of €238 million, in shares of the hotel "Liburnia", and more than €684 million was paid. And it's illegal. The payment of that amount was effected without a contract, for the reason that information from the Privatisation Fund has been made available to us that the contract, which was otherwise signed in May 2005, is said to have been signed in 2005 but the Fund provides information that the contract was put off in 204. And that means that there are no legal bases on the Fund's board of directors and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been deceived. The illegality is also reflected in the property available by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, because it is illegal, against the Privatisation Act, to enable ownership of the important property of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which is to the hotels "Liburnia". And he didn't respect the Privatization Act. In addition to illegality, we estimate that he also favored former PIFs or holding companies. This bargaining is precisely what we see in the fact that the holding companies have made more income than they have been given according to a court ruling for more than 684 million kunas. It was also that by acting and acting in the Privatisation Fund, it enabled the holding company to take over the majority ownership of the "Liburni" hotels. Also, in order to please and enable funds to acquire majority ownership, he traded shares in HFP's portfolio to obtain the majority ownership of the hotel "Liburni", which has not been defined by the law of arbitration. He also favored funds for failing to follow written instructions from the State Attorney's Office which otherwise led court disputes on behalf of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Privatisation Fund and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, since these are two separate disputes. In this way, it damaged the Republic of Croatia by favouring the funds, which looks at the unconscious conduct of the settlement process by the Vice-President of Mr Polanec. Unconscious business and process management are seen for the reason that Mr Polancec has not studied the findings of State audits on the procedures for purchasing privatisation, and in particular on the exchange of shares procedures, and the damages caused by former employees to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. I think of workers before 2000 of the Privatisation Fund, who also benefited from their harmful activities from the above mentioned PIFs. And among them I mention Mr. Ostovic. Also, Vice President Polancec did not consult with the State's Attorney's Office to conduct court disputes, nor did he he heed written warnings. We also see unconscious process management for reasons why Mr Polancec is aware of the longstanding problem we have in the Croatian Privatisation Fund with these PIFs did not organise the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund to avoid new problems, new affairs and new damages to the Republic of Croatia, resulting in the government's decision to annul the settlement itself. What we're holding him responsible for because he knew how dangerous it was to deal with those holding companies. He also did not remove the possibility that persons responsible for the damages that are just being done to the Republic of Croatia to make deals with those holding companies. We also believe that by acting as Vice President Polancec... and damage to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The damage to the Croatian Privatisation Fund for the reason that today's shares of "Liburnia" hotels have been blocked, and new court proceedings have been launched. Also, the damages caused by over a billion and 200 million kunas of judicial proceedings at the moment, and the judgments already closed, amounted to 550 million kuna. And the damage to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and to international scandals, and I would say the arrogant treatment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But what he was most resented and assessed as the biggest failures are due to the untruths he daily referred to to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and despite very clear dissatisfaction by regional and local self-government, by employees, by the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, he falsely defended the settlement procedures and justified I would say the quality of the completed business on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, since Mr Ostova, who represents home holding, made it clear that he paid some parties in the campaign, and especially the most democratic community in Croatia, was given the reason that we can assess that it was political corruption and that, simply by doing so and favouring the holding companies, everything was done to pay off the money received on the burden of the Croatian State, the Privatisation Fund, the payment of services to funds, which is called corruption. What we also want to point out as proposings is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has annulled the plea to the guilty by declaring the president and vice president of the Fund. The government has replaced Mr Ostovic as Fund president and given the order to the Croatian Privatisation Fund to replace the vice president of the Fund. Today this same person, Mr. Gotovina is still vice president of the Fund, which means that Mr. President of the Management Board or Vice-President of the Government has not realised the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the course of this session, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted the National Anti-Corruption Programme, and given the "Liburnia" affair, given the possibility that a member of the Executive Authority is involved in possible corruption, given the payment of party activities and payment of these same state-owned companies, we assess that the Government should try to turn this programme into activities and prove on such examples that it will fight corruption in the Republic of Croatia. At the end of September of 2005. The government also made a decision to initiate the process of confiscation of the holding company, while at the same time Mr Polancec, on behalf of HFP, made a decision on the conclusion of a deal with "Validus" from Varazdin, on the payment of more than 100 million kuna on the burden of the Privatisation Fund. It is also important to say that after the end of the contract, the Vice-President of the Board of Directors did not take action to pay off the valid verdict that was brought by the arbitration of the Chamber of Commerce in early 2005 but was followed by a new lawsuit against the Republic of Croatia and the blockades of the hotel's "Liburnia" shares. So we have new court proceedings instead of simply trying to pay off the fund by existing judgments to reduce the damages of these moves. All of this above is also the reason why we propose to the Croatian Parliament that Mr Polancec should simply be distrusted because of the unconscious and unlawful performance of his duties. Now let me take a few words to refer to both the reply and the government of the Republic of Croatia's testimony regarding our request. What is very interesting is that the government in its response is trying to point out that the Croatian Privatisation Fund has received three disputes, lost three disputes and is trying to say in its response that if the value of the disputes is taken and that, according to those three lost, the state has been damaged by 80% of the values, and for what we get 20% of the value in the government's response you can read the data in which it says such a result was the reason why it joined the settlements. What we promoters consider what is written in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is at least tragic. The problem of justice and corruption in the judiciary is evident, the huge dissatisfaction of the citizens of Croatia, us here in the Parliament with the judiciary, the International Community and instead of the government trying very clearly to point out the problem, and the problem is that we have different judgments in the same legal business. It is something that is inadmissible, it is something because it is in the same period of time with a difference of several days, which means the total legal uncertainty of Croatian citizens, economic operators in the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, according to the same business, the Government of the Republic of Croatia believes it is possible to bring in different jurisprudences, an unsustainable theory. On the contrary, it was a motive for us proposing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia clearly points to a problem in the judiciary and makes it clear that we may also have corruption. Why? Because almost 80% were sentenced to the burden of the Republic of Croatia. So someone who expected large revenues without working on the burden of the Republic of Croatia could bribe someone. The one who could get little obviously could not participate in this, and we had very clear that the Croatian state in that part had achieved a positive right. It would also be very important for the government to point out in its opinion that those arbiters who did not agree with the words on the damage to the Republic of Croatia were being fenced and clearly warned about the harmfulness of such decisions, that it was written in the jurisprudences. This is how some arbitrationists acted, but for the government we do not see here, the government sees no problems and it is evident that these are the weaknesses of the judiciary that must be opened up and that is something that for the Government of this match 3, 3, 80, 20 is a sign that we should speculate with those who cause such negative phenomena in the Republic of Croatia, it is a sign to us that we must open up the problem of the judiciary and the warnings that we have from the world from Croatian citizens, and take very seriously. The Government also states in its response in point 6 that the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia has given its opinion and that the State's Attorney's Office has always cared about the view that we will lose our disputes. The government is also trying to say that it does not know the opinion of the State Attorney's Office that part of the disputes is unquestionable and that the likelihood of obtaining disputes from the Republic of Croatia is great. Even you cannot find in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the Croatian state is leading two disputes. One dispute is run by the Privatisation Fund, the other is run by the Croatian state. The Privatisation Fund has lost its disputes, and these are the two difficult jurisprudences. Disputes with the state and not with the Fund are those for which the State's Attorney's Office has made it clear in a number of proceedings that it is impossible to lose the dispute. It is impossible to lose it because the funds are seeking damage from the Croatian state, and since they have achieved a stock exchange in both the first and the second circles, there is no such damage. The state's attorney's office has made it clear that these are like back-up lawsuits, therefore, there is no way of losing the state of the dispute. No way. The state's attorney's office is represented by the Croatian state and their opinion is unquestionable in the part. However, regardless of this, such a position of the State Attorney's Office in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not wish to speak a single word, is paid in the amount of a billion and 200 million and the amount in those lawsuits. Therefore, where it is unquestionable that the state will receive, unquestionably in the opinion of the State's Attorney General, a large... where the state will win the dispute, where it cannot lose through the settlement is paid to the funds, it is eligible to the funds and that is why 680 million kunas are paid more to the funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In disputes for which the State's Attorney General clearly states that the Croatian state will not lose. And not just that. It does not pay for the Croatian state which is sued, it pays for the Privatisation Fund. These are two legal entities and cannot be charged with disputes with the Croatian State by the Privatisation and Liburnia Fund. He can't, but it only happened so that he could become the majority owner of Liburnia. What does the Privatisation Fund have to do with the damage claim against the Republic of Croatia? And why is this lawsuit? Well, because the fund-raisers estimate they've been cheated on in the process of coupon privatisation. Cheated in funds. Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, 680 million were paid, 680 million. The health taxi package was 300 million. Only two funds, just two funds, and for the damage the State's Attorney's office said would not lose the dispute. However, you have an update, I apologize, in a report from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the State's Attorney's Office considers that there are no prosecutions. And that solution by the State's Attorney's Office on Criminal Persecution refers only to the shares of Sugar Virovitica. What does that mean? Consciously, even today, the government presents incorrect facts to parliamentary deputies. He's conscious. It does not call for solutions, decisions, opinions of the State Attorney's Office, which only represent the Republic of Croatia. And what does that mean, is that what Mr. Polancec's corruption activities are hiding? The Government of the Republic of Croatia also states in point 9: The State Office shall submit its reports, the State Office for Auditing, its reports to the State's Attorney's Office. Well, it doesn't matter if the government examines Mr. Polancec, either, find the State Audits. It also found that HFP also filed criminal charges against participants in the exchange of shares. But the government is calling for a state's attorney's statement that there are simply no criminal activities. And it's already been noted, it's only about sugar in that document that the government is reading. At the same time, the Government of Ivo Sanader, which has been identified by the State Audit and we have often discussed these irregularities, does not consider it relevant that officials in the Fund and neither Mr Polancec would have acted on them. However, they believe that although it says there are damaged shareholders, that the Fund is damaged, that they have earned especially Dom Holding, they further consider that they were to be negotiated, that they were to be negotiated. Therefore, neither the State Audit nor the State Attorney's Office according to this report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is relevant for the behaviour of people such as Mr Polancec. Because it's simply an interest to be, to settle and make it possible to benefit the Fund and the Holding. And now imagine what's interesting. It's all clear, there's no investigation, there's nothing, and the applicants asked the Privatisation Fund to deliver some of the documentation to prepare this quality. And what do we need in charge of the Privatisation Fund? All the documentation is in the police because there's been an investigation of stock exchange procedures and a disputed settlement. So, it's all clear, we were all supposed to make arrangements. When you're looking for documentation, it's where the law enforcement authorities handle it. Clearly, then, we will hear more about it and talk more about it. Therefore, I would say that in the light of the Government of the Republic of Croatia we have a series of elements in which the competent authorities of the Croatian Parliament are, because that is the number of the State Attorney's Office and the State's audit that pointed to failures and legality, it simply does not consider it relevant. It's all gone because it was a settlement, because it's important to simply accommodate two funds and not a small amount. It's been paid more than the judgments, 640 million kuna. In fact, it is another interesting fact that we can find in the government of the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia, Ivo Sanader, accuses the former government of not making a deal, accuses the former people of not guessing, and there is a fundamental problem that the Government of the Republic of Croatia sees because if a billion 200 million were settled in 2002 there would be no problem for this government. Now let's talk about who the former government was supposed to deal with, and then take the State Audit report that we often take here, and what does that report say? The exchange of shares with privatised investment funds is not carried out in accordance with the Regulation under the conditions and means of exchange of shares, i.e. no assumptions for the replacement of shares are met. Clear formulation in the State Audit report. Then, if the auction value of the shares is taken, the privatisation investment funds have paid back the shares paid by 182 million points in the auctioning process, and in exchange the shares that were valued at 186 million points in the auctioning process have been paid back in the first round of the replacement of 3 million and 700 points more. So it's a pity for the fund. Further in the report, although privatisation investment funds are asking the Croatian Privatisation Fund for the nominal amount of 339 million marks compared to the auction value, the Croatian Privatisation Fund transferred a higher amount of shares. These shares are even in 35 companies of nominal value of 72 million dem. Privatization investment funds, especially by the Fund and Velebit, which the Croatian Privatisation Fund owes the shares of the nominal value of 86 million marks compared to the auction value received more than 21 million points, i.e. over 30% higher value in swaps than they were supposed to get. Therefore, the find of the State Audit clearly states that they are in business with... After the first round, the Fund's special status had a Dom Fund, Velebit, and that those who specifically damaged the Croatian Privatisation Fund, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ivo Sanader, said in its obvious statement that the former government was to be guessed after these findings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If I'm out of time, I'll continue with one of the follow-up calls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63959	Peace, please. Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First, honourable representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63960	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Linic said Mr Polancec damaged the Republic of Croatia by negotiating with the PIFs and favouring them. It's a classic replacement thesis. Namely, where did the damage come from? The damage occurred when counterpart Linic, who led the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, insisted on the suspension of the Croatian Fund's commitments to the same PIFs, although he was warned by the legal sector of the Privatisation Fund that this will cause multiple problems and multiple costs and that the prospects for obtaining court disputes, which later became clear, more than minimal. This was the one who led the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and caused this damage that we are talking about today, and this is quite clear that it is a classic replacement of thesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63961	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63962	Mr. President. So I am also correcting the incorrect assumption that Mr Linic claimed that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec has done multiple damage to the Croatian Privatisation Fund as well as to the Republic of Croatia and its taxpayers. In fact, it is also clear and visible from the State Audit Office report that, and the minutes of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, that it is Mr Linic who insisted that Croatia's Privatisation Fund be suspended and thus caused immeasurable damage to the Croatian Privatisation Fund even though he was warned, he was repeatedly warned from the legal service that all claims have minimal prospects. So Mr. Linic whose house is burning down that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63963	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Zeljko Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63964	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Inaccurate quote from counterpart Linic, I quote: "The Vice President Polancec has caused new damages to the Croatian Privatisation Fund and new privatisation affairs". New damages and new affairs caused by his colleague Linic when he was at the head of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which did not perform everything he had to do about what the talk was about, and how much damage these damages are we can only read from the following figures. A million and 700 thousand kuna costs of the process, 3 million and 700 thousand kunas to the State's Attorney's Office, 2 million kunas of legal services, and now that the Government is headed by Prime Minister Sanader and Vice President Polancec is trying to mitigate and halt the damage and further damage here is being debated about their responsibility, which I think is deplaced and politically.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63965	Next correction, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63966	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Damir Polancec is incorrect in point 2. that he was unlawfully, unwittingly doing his duties, thereby causing considerable damage to the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary, Mr. Polancec... [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63967	Please, ladies and gentlemen, counsellors, moment one. I maintain order. I've also made it possible for a proposing representative and everyone else not to be disturbed. Please keep that in mind all together. Please, gentlemen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63968	So it is an incorrect assumption that Mr. Linic, Mr. Polancec, the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, illegally and unwittingly, has done his duties and has done damage to the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary, everything he did was in accordance with the special regulations of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore this finding in point 2 is incorrect and a complete proposal in points 3 and 4, and point 5 is falling into the water and it would be much better for this Croatian Parliament and for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if we had discussed the next points of the agenda and any good law proposed either by the opposition or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63969	And finally, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63970	It is not true that Mr Linic's claim about Mr Polancec was that he also affected everything he said that I did not repeat. The truth is that, by changing power in 2000, the Croatian Privatisation Fund stopped carrying out contractual obligations under the agreement on the remuneration of shares in the purchase privatisation programme from 98 to 2000. And there lies the cause and the producer of other liabilities and dues which by paying off, not by service obligations caused all of this further because it was necessary to provide shares of profitable companies and not those because it was exactly in the rulebook. You didn't respect it, you got three convictions thinking it would be all right. Later, the whole thing changed, and you, in your 2000 decision, unserving obligations caused everything that happened later on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63971	Thank you. Does Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec want to take his word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63972	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I will try to focus in this first address only on the most important elements of the government's perception of the Republic of Croatia, which helped to recruit fellow Privatisation Fund with my help. So, for starters, I would like to clearly reject and say that I consider all arguments and arguments by the representatives who have encouraged such an initiative absolutely unfounded. And now I'm going to try in short lines and explain why I'm such an attitude. The data referred to in paragraph 1 on page 2 of the proposals relating to the acquis adopted in favour of Dom Holding shall be accurate. It is true that the acquis was adopted on 6 February 2002 and the executive solution on 12 January 2005. The proposal proposes that the application by Dom Holding amount to 301 million 151 thousand kuna, including interest and cost of the procedure. According to the acquis, the Croatian Privatisation Fund is obliged to transfer to Dom Holding shares which were subject to a share compensation agreement in the coupon privatisation programme totalling 85 million 940 thousand 708 marks in kunas, depending on the rate to be applied which would represent approximately 327 million 966 thousand 930 kuna and as follows. So transfer the shares of the Hotel "Croatia" Cavtat, hotel "Liburnia Riviera" hotel, Kraša d.d. Zagreb, hotels Opera d.d., MTČ Trikotage d.d. Čakovec, MTČ stocking factory Čakovec and Technomonta Pula in the above amounts as indicated in the table. It is clear from that table that the Croatian Privatisation Fund did not have sufficient number of shares to carry out its commitments to Dom Holding. More specifically, HFP has had shares on the nominal amount of EUR 275 million circus and the only possible solution given was to reach agreement on how to settle the demand of Dom Holding from the river I mentioned. It is true that on 12 January 2005 on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce in Zagreb, the Court of Commerce made a decision on the exercise of the acquis. However, the applicants do not point out one extremely important fact and that the solution in question provides that the HFP is required to be transferred to the House of Holding within eight days of all the shares in the river and that in the event of failure to meet the HFP, the pens are determined, and here I ask you to listen well to me in the amount of 100 thousand kuna daily starting from the end of a given solution. In doing so, the appeal does not delay the implementation of the solution. Therefore, the court set out the pens that HFP had to, could not avoid because it had not had enough shares to act according to a solution which urgently required access to the agreed solution of the situation and the avoidance of the payment of the penalty. In addition, the provisions of Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The implementing law provides for the possibility that the court may, on the basis of a proposal by the authorising officer, prevent and punish, in this case, the House and the SN Holding, other than the fine and the prison responsible person in the legal person for the cases provided for by law, if, contrary to the court’s order, take certain actions with a view to hiding the property, if they take actions which may result in heavy compensation and if they take actions that interfere with the implementation of the law or in other cases provided for. Dom and SN announced the possibility of proposing court sentences and prison sentences for the president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. If the court would accept that proposal, that's another thing and it's hard to say at this point. However, the very fact that the HFP president is proposed to impose a prison sentence would be indeed discrediting both for HFP and personally for the head of the fund. Such a possibility was announced by PIF Validus, who proposed with his own purpose and the court also accepted a fine for the president of 15 thousand kuna. On the second page of the second proposal, the Proposer states that the rule of law was adopted in 2002 and that the exercise was initiated in 2004 and that the case was cited, the case was probably agreed only in 2004 with Vice-President Polancec, and related to the acquisition of shares of the hotel in Liberia with the aim of providing Dom Holding with majority ownership of Liburni hotels with completed quote. I am very well known to you only on 24 February 2005 by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia appointed president of the HFP Management Board, so it is clear from this, obviously, to anyone who wishes to talk with arguments, that I could not even participate in the agreements that the promoters are talking about. Dom Holding has also launched the task of handing over all the shares of the river, including 72258 shares of Liburnia. The Executive Decision provides that the HFP is to be transferred within 8 days to the House holding all the shares of the Rivers and that in the event of non-fulfillment of the HFP, pens of 100 thousand kuna are to be determined for each day of delay as indicated in point 1 of this material. The HFP did not have sufficient shares to carry out its obligations to the Dom Holding and thus could not implement the court's decision. In addition, Dom Holding did not need any agreement or any agreement whose consent to launch an action against the Privatisation Fund. Dom Holding has a right to a permanent elected judiciary which is both a powerful and executive document which has the legal right at any time when he decides on the adoption of that right until the end of 10 years to request its execution. I would also like to say that the decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give its consent to the Privatisation Fund to be represented in negotiations with all former PIFs dates back to 4 August 2004. So before I was appointed president of the Trust Management Board. It is noted that before the decision was taken on 4 August 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia requested the opinion of the State Attorney's Office which I had heard of countless times here that I had not consulted them and did not respect their opinions, and the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia gave full consent to the entry into negotiations with effect from 30 June and proposed a uniform solution to the overall problem of coupon privatisation. All of this happened long before I was appointed president of the Privatisation Fund Management Board. It is true that the third page of the second proposal, which states that SN holding by implementing, blocking accounts, the giro account has charged an amount of 230 million kuna, while the difference has remained reserved in the special transitional account and is subsequently returned to the fund, so that at the time of the conclusion of the agreement of 8 August 2005. HFP according to SN holding had a debt in that amount. However, what you are not saying, or what you are deliberately forgetting, is the fact that the funds removed by the HFP giro account were mostly paid to the HFP on the basis of its management of shares owned by DAB and HZMO, and these funds were to be forwarded to DAB and HZMO. The funds achieved by selling shares of the hotel Split primarily owned by DAB and dividend based on shares owned by HZMO, managed by HFP. It was therefore opportunistic to return part of the funds withdrawn through the agreement in order to settle the commitment of the Privatisation Fund to those institutions. Items 4, 5 on page 2 and paragraphs 1 and 2 of the third proposal refer to the replacement of the hotel shares of Liburni between the HFP and the capital fund. It states that there is a failure in that swap transaction since the nominal value of the hotel's Liburni shares is treated as the market value of the shares, i.e. that no procedure has been carried out to determine the market value of the shares is correct. Namely, the HFP replaces the shares by the rules on the terms and conditions of the exchange of shares or the share of which the Regulation provides for both the conditions and the means of replacing the shares or the shares at the disposal of the Privatisation Fund. According to that Regulation, the replacement may be carried out on the principle of equal nominal values as done in the case of the swap of shares between the Privatisation Fund and the Capital Fund. Following the above, I think you will all agree that the motions for failures in that transaction are completely unwarranted. In addition to the above arguments and the facts that make the proposal unfounded, it is necessary to indicate and specify the reason why the HFP found itself in a situation that needs to enforce the Rivers of Million Values. By changing power in 2002, the HFP ceased to implement contractual obligations under the '98 share compensation agreements in the coupon privatisation programme with all legal followers of privatisation and investment funds. until 2000. Those contracts obliged the Fund to make up for the shares of PIFs which were subject to coupon privatisation, which were not yet in line with the Regulation on the free allocation of shares as an implementing act for the purchase privatisation, since they were shares of non-solvent and non-profitable companies. While Article 12 of the Regulation and clearly and unambiguously regulated that the shares covered by the purchase privatisation must be shares of profitable and solvable companies. And now we have decided, that is, the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund has decided not to fulfil any more contractual obligations on the basis of a share compensation contract. However, who has made such a decision and on the basis of which the arguments, based on which analysis and I, with most of what Mr Linic said and said about the findings of the State Audit Office, can and agree, and there are indeed not many arguments, and that this process has been said to have been transparent enough. The purchasing privatisation was a noble idea that was not well implemented, especially a lot of mistakes, and what was unequivocally found in the State Audit Office's finding was done in the process of concluding a share compensation agreement and no one is slowing it down. However, it would not be right to call exclusively on the findings of the state audit and to say that I am ignoring the findings of the State Audit Office when I co-ordinate the decision-making process, while ignoring one fact, which is that on the Governing Board of the Privatisation Fund, on three occasions, there was a debate on how to resolve these cases. And I want to make it very clear, so if you allow me and quote some of the materials that I have, of course, in the archives, and Mr. Linic as chairman of the Management Board of the Fund for, I apologize to the Privatisation Fund. Where it is clearly indicated what will happen as a result if they cease to comply with the obligations under the signed contracts. I'm just going to do a few elements here, quote a few sentences. Or maybe to convince them because it's hard to quote, quote the whole material. Here, in one section where an appeal is analysed in a regular court for the annulment of a sentence if there is an arbitration hearing tomorrow or where it is analysed, can these contracts be annulled in a regular court? Citation: "The possible submission of an action to determine the futility of the share compensation agreement in the purchase privatisation programme except that the very outcome of the CROMAC dispute could cause further major damage. We owe it to all of these reasons to present a reserve on success in such a dispute and to warn the Management Board of high litigation costs which should be paid by the Fund in the event of a loss of litigation." And so on and so on and so forth. The legal sector says quite Decidently: "According to the Fund's obligations, there exists in the event that these contracts are void." Therefore, even in the event that those contracts are annulled in court, the Fund should then return the shares received on the basis of the voidity of the contract. Zero contracts. As most of these shares were held by the Fund, this return would not be possible. In that case, the Fund would be obliged to repay the corresponding compensation in cash. I would like to warn you that the Fund or the State will suffer significantly greater damage if it allows the jurisdiction of the jurisdiction of which the compensation agreements in question have been agreed by the Court of Justice and the Court of arbitration, as described here. Both the legal sector of the Privatisation Fund and then the president of the College of the Fund, Mr. Vojkovic, warns the Fund's Management Board that it is not the right solution not to carry out obligations but suggests several times a settlement of disputes by peaceful means and by making new settlements. However, by changing the HFP authorities, the legal followers of the PIFs stopped carrying out contractual obligations and ignored these facts that I stated. The consequences of such a position, i.e. the failure of the contract, were the complaints of the PIFs to the permanent chosen court in order to fulfil the contractual obligations. In these proceedings, the rights to the damage of the HFP were adopted. In this respect, the applicants accurately state the fact that the three jurisprudences have been adopted for the benefit of the HFP and that the compensation contracts have been found to be void. At the end of 2001 and in early 2002, 3 jurisprudences were passed which adopted the counter-claims of the HFP and the contracts found in vain while in February 2002 a acquis was passed in favour of the "Dom Holding". The PIF's failure was an introduction to the PIFs, and now I'm asking you to listen well to me, it was the PIF's cause to address the HFP with a proposal for a peaceful solution to the dispute, with significant deviations from their previous demands. The materials of the legal sector of the Privatisation Fund and the letter of the President of the Privatisation Fund to the Privatisation Fund are clearly reading the suggestions that such an agreement will be accepted because, by virtue of it, the damage, if we can talk about the damage, is less than if we enter further litigation. Well then, based on these facts, it is quite clear who, when and where, at which point not respecting the facts, did not respect the views of the legal sector of the Privatisation Fund, the President of the Management Board of the Fund created a multiplier and generated additional problems that we are all trying to bring together today. That's not Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec for sure. On 30 January 2002, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the Civil-Governmental Department representing the HFP in all disputes with the PIFs based on its letter or letter, submitted an informal proposal for a settlement to the HFP. So the informal proposal of the PIF was sent through the State Attorney's Office in 2002 to the Privatisation Fund Management Board and ignored. The PIF proposal shall be the following. That the total amount of claims against HFP is a billion kuna. That the height of the appeal claim is five PIFs. "Dom Holding", "SN Holding", "Expandia", "Slavon Fund" and... against the Republic of Croatia, the so-called The "Mother" dispute marked 533 million 796 thousand 261 kuna with legal tight interest from 15 March 1999 until payment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now allow me two sentences about it. I listened very carefully to Mr. Linic when he said that I ignored the clear evidence of the State's Attorney's Office in connection with that which he said was quite certain that we would get this slow suit from Mother. Mr. Linic, in response to the obvious, we've listed it. I now again responsibly claim: there is no such indication of the State's Attorney's Office. If you have it, I ask you nicely to give it to me. If you have from the State's Attorney's Office's testimony on the dispute, so-called. The 2004 Mothers lawsuit, or I don't know what year I've been responsible for, I've never seen it, I never got it. However, I have one other indication, which is, I can't quote it now, so I'm going to interpret it. I have a letter from the State's Attorney's Office which warns the Privatisation Fund in early 2005 that a municipal judge, that the court of the municipal court before which a dispute with interest over one billion and two hundred thousand kunas has demanded an artificiality at the height of the damage. I, Mr. Linic, apologize for speaking to you so directly, address all those who have initiated this debate. I'm not a lawyer, and when I don't know something, then I'm asking the opinion of those in that segment more professionally and competent than I am. Every lawyer, every lawyer I've discussed the case with, says, the moment the judge asks for a statement, or asks for an art of damage, it's no longer a question of whether the damage has any, it's only a matter of height. If I'm wrong about what I said, prove it to me. But I don't think either of us are lawyers and we ask the lawyers what they think and how they interpret the fact if the judge of the municipal court asked for an art of damage. Therefore, not only is it not true that the State's Attorney's Office has shown that we are going to win these disputes, but rather the opposite. The State's Attorney General wrote in his letter: "We ask HFP to take these facts into consideration for the overall settlement of disputes with the PIFs peacefully.". That's true. The proposed deal, quoted by the PIFs, suggested that their claim under the compensation contracts signed with HFP amounting to 287 million 390 thousand 760 marks, which represents an equivalent of 149 million kunas, through shares that the parties will subsequently agree on, and are ready to drop in their claims, and withdraw all claims. That's their 2002 proposal we've also ignored. The HFP, i.e. the leaders of the HFP, did not even consider the proposed settlement, but continued to conduct the initial litigation. The result of such a decision is that after that HFP, please listen carefully to me after that, after we have received a proposal for a settlement, HFP has lost two more arbitration disputes, thus equating the ratio of the received and lost disputes to 3:3. And thus the negotiating position for a possible settlement has changed considerably. If the HFP agreed to conclude the proposed agreement with the PIFs, it is very likely that the PIFs would have significantly re-performed from their demands at that time, for the reason that the HFP had succeeded in three arbitration proceedings in which the compensation agreements were found to be void and the PIFs in one. However, we neither wanted to sit down nor tried to sit down at a negotiating table, or you. It points to the fact that the HFP was able to settle disputes with the PIFs in a peaceful manner during 2002, in a way that agreed through the settlement that the claim of the PIF would be settled through the transfer of shares, whereby the HFP could have negotiated longer deadlines and avoided any further court dispute, both against the HFP and the Republic of Croatia. It is further noted that the PIF proposal shows that, at that time, the PIFs were ready to be largely lenient in their requirements, following which the claim of the PIFs could have been found to be significantly less than the claims that the PIFs had on the basis of the compensation contract concluded in the period from '98. until 2000. Since the HFP did not accept the PIF proposal, the PIF therefore brought the Privatisation Fund into the next situation. He lost two more arbitration proceedings, launched a series of court proceedings. The PIFs had to pay an additional million 700,000 kuna to the costs of the procedure. His giro account has been blocked for several months and will have to pay the state's attorney's office, which should also not be ignored by the cost of representation that amounts to $3.7 million by 2004. And he paid two and a half million kuna for legal services. In this House, we have already discussed this, and I don't know if it is necessary to mention it again and remind everyone, how a law firm was chosen to represent us in these disputes. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the light of the above, it can be pointed out that the Agreement in question since 8 August 2005 is based on the settlement of the rightful claim of Dom Holding and SN Holding towards HFP amounting to cca 582 million kuna and on the settlement of claims of PIFs on the basis of damages of cca 657 million kuna, which the claim is the subject of a dispute which the PIFs lead against the Republic of Croatia, which is once again mentioned in the financial art of damage. It is certainly necessary to point out that the circumstances in which the Fund was found during 2004, once again, the execution, the blocking of accounts, the payment of 100 thousand kuna court pens per day for non-fulfillment, the non-fulfillment of the acquis. All these circumstances required and imposed an urgent and spotless solution to the existing situation. And now only two, three sentences about the allegations and the, and the impeachment of the state's attorney's office. On 9 September 2004, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia agreed on a draft agreement between the HFP on the one hand, and the House of Holding and SN Holding on the other. 11 May 2005 The state's attorney's office continues to remain fully in the opinion given since 9 September 2004. April 20, 2005 is that indication of the State's Attorney's Office and a letter warning us about financial skills at the height of the damage. And all this says unequivocally that I've been very consulted at all times, I've obtained every time a written statement from the State's Attorney's office. And you don't stand your lunches and you don't stand your findings that the opinion of the State's Attorney's Office in the process of resolving disputes peacefully, I didn't ask for it and that I ignored it. After all, I truly believe that the procedure you have initiated is part of a political struggle, that there are no arguments for it. I'm willing to give a series of additional labs and clarifications if necessary, but I really think that we could all spend more time together this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63973	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63974	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting two incorrect allegations by the Deputy Prime Minister. The first is, the Deputy Prime Minister says he, or the Government, is acting on the findings of the State Audit. It is incorrect, because according to the state audit findings, neither the former government nor the current proceedings, because the fact that out of 1556 of the cases that the audit was supervised, only 75 were legally carried out, so no one was doing anything and I agree with that being true. Furthermore, the imprecise allegations by Mr. Deputy Prime Minister who says advertising of zero, unlawfully concluded contracts would be a shame. So who'd be the damage? For those who've been bailing. That's why I'm asking, and that's why I'm going to propose a law on the establishment of a return agency that's taken away from these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63975	Second Amendment, the Honorable Representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63976	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President Polancec says, I quote, "There was no gap in the settlement transaction for the Liburnia shares." I'm making it right. Namely, if it was right that "Liburnia" which actually means Opatija, Ika, Ičići, Lovran, Matulji belongs to that... or the Fund, if that was okay, then why did the government cancel out that decision for God and that decision on reconciliation that Vice President Polancec says is correct. Why did you do that? The government just works here on principle, we did something, we keep saying it was good, but we did it ourselves in the meantime. This formula simply doesn't work, it's not good in that formula to run politics or state, it's not fast HR, it's a hasty HR, it's too hasty.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63977	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63978	Dear President, the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the distinguished Members of Parliament. First, I'd like to read Mr. Linic's thesis on corruption. He says Mr. Linic literally quotes him "The rest of Eltz paid for some parties". True, Ostova Eltz funded some parties, let's say HDZ got 500 thousand kuna, IDS got 100,000 kuna, that's what I'm saying in front of this Parliament, I speak in front of the Croatian public. HSS got 100 or 200 thousand kuna, HSLS got 100,000 kuna, Kramaric DC got 100,000 kuna, etc. However, IDS reported these 100,000 kunas, IDS challenged Eltz's remains in the book in Poreč at over 200 hectares so-called. tourism land plus about 40, 50 hectares in Rapac and IDS opened "Liburni", no one else. So here's what we refuse to do about corruption, and we call on other legal entities to help us financially, but we guarantee that we will remain our own. The IDS, however, would like to replace its financial situation for some other parties, which Kramaric probably agrees with. The second thing I'm saying is that until the election is called, it's been cca for a year, and the tensions have been lifted, among other things, because of Dubrovnik, Velika Gorica, Požega, etc. That was the right polygon for questioning a clearly party rating. Another problem is that part of the media contributes to bipolarisation, which is a disaster for Croatia, but on another occasion. What I am far more interested in no matter what I have signed this request, and I will vote for it, is what is the first further fate of Liburnia. the hotel sector controlled by the state of Croatia and others, which is with the so-called The SOP program, more specifically, is the fate of workers, i.e. former employees in Opatija, Matulji, Lovran, Moscenica Draga, Iki, Ičićima, etc. who were tied or who were tied to "Liburnia." The first "Liburnia" in 2005 as I read those financial reports a few days ago, achieved modestness, yet it achieved a significant profit of 10 million kuna for them. Mr. Linic said they were blocked, it doesn't matter. The truth of Liburnia is we're aware of it ourselves, it can't renovate any more serious hotel, let alone that "Liburnia" can restore the entire society. However, the decisions so far have been disastrous to keep the whole society alive by selling out the abbey, lauren, mosceni that the hotel is going to the villa. From 93 to today, from 105 facilities, 44 are sold as hotels, which villas, which you have heard well from 105 hotels, 144. From 2000 to 2004, 12 hotels were sold and this casino villa "Rozalia", restaurant "Lavor", villa "Ariston", hotel "Lovran", hotel "Paris", villa "Frapart", hotel "Miran", hotel "Palme", hotel "Agava", hotel "Astoria", hotel "Park". The truth is, in the term of this government come on, we have to admit not one has been sold but to return to the settlement of the Don Fund and the Croatian Privatisation Fund but before the matter stands on today, since summer means here. First, there was the separation of Dark Ostora's business and Count Eltz. In beating up each other's claims between Ostora and Eltz SN Holding, he took over the debts of the House of Holding related to "Liburnia" and now only this fund, headed by Darko Ostoja, is seeking debts from the state. So Ostora's out of it. Count Eltzu's entire hotel portfolio, such as the Poreč Riviera, Babin Kuk, Laguna from Novigrad, hotels in Hvar, and Darko Ostoji, remained with SN Holding, smaller stakes in companies, money and demand from the state more than one billion kuna, which is what Liburni is looking for today, and thus, after the division of portfolios with Ostoj Count Eltz, he came out of the dispute with the state. Recently, SN holding has filed two lawsuits against the government and the Securities Commission. The Commission has made a decision to take the shares of "Liburnia" from the agency. SN holding means no longer asking for a billion kuna from the Croatian Privatisation Fund or a billion and 200 million kuna, but looking for shares of "Liburnia" and calling for a contract between the Fund, i.e. the Government and the Fund in which Ostoe Jelc were located and is now in the course of the trade court, i.e. the State Attorney's Office. That's the way things are on today. Secondly, negotiations with the City of Opatija, so these 25 plus 1 shares at this stage are down, and right at the position of the city in the government, I think we should insist. Thirdly, what I personally hold for this space is that it is time for a referendum in Opatija to strengthen the position of the city, which, as things are now, is left with nothing, and the idea that through the new Law on Privatisation of Workers, up to 25% of the shares through the ESO program is correct. However, it is to the government, in my opinion, perhaps more cover for the privatisation of "Liburnia", "Imperial" from Rab, or "the Adriatic" from Crikvenica than to help workers. I am convinced that in silence the matter is resolved in order to settle the dispute between the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the "SN Holding" and avoid the court, I am now talking about this trade. However, if a matter comes before a trade court, we know that the matter will eventually end, mainly in the context of this knowledge of all these possible affairs. And tomorrow, so when SN Holding makes the decision to take over, it's gonna be their whole Liburnia anyway. I am convinced that the point is, therefore, in the settlement of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the "SN Holding", not actually in the ESO programme. If the citizens hadn't responded to the protests that opened this case, I think from these fictitious to 25% of Liburnia's workers who are now being mentioned would be nothing. In the 1990s, however, workers enrolled 50% of their stakes in the company, in the Jadrolinia laws, HT offered 7% of the local self-government, so I'm a skeptic of these mentioned 25% so that it doesn't eventually turn into a promise of crazy joy. So the space has to keep some of the tourist systems talking finally and the fact that 200 of them intend to write down 4 and a half billion kunas to their companies. It is not, clearly, nothing controversial and the former government has written off 7 billion kunas to its companies, or state-owned companies. That's what they do, and let it happen. It is a dispute, however, why the state is not fighting for one of the tourist companies. Why doesn't he fight, say, for "Liburnia"? So the battle for "Liburnia" we see about what it looks like. Whether the battle will be won here in Parliament, I doubt it. I doubt that indeed, but to be honest, I am even more suspicious of our god-awful independent judiciary, which is largely co-criminal to this case because the so-called arbitration tribunal at the Chamber of Commerce has decided by my court to recognise the lack of claims to the funds. As some individuals from the underworld are connected to some judges, this is another occasion. The chronology of the case around "Liburnia" looks like this. In 2000, the then Deputy Prime Minister and the chairman of the board of directors, Mr Linic, refused to negotiate with the PIFs on the exchange of shares. That's correct. 2001. Home and Essen Holding file a lawsuit to the municipal court for damages. 2001. The House filed an appeal on a permanent ban on the courts in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, meaning arbitration. In 2001, which was referred to by Vice President Polancec, the complaint by Mother 5 of the PIF against the state in the municipal court is for damages. 2001. Essen Holding is pressing charges on arbitration. In 2002, arbitration brings a word in favour of Dom Holding. In 2004, arbitration brings a right to the benefit of Essen Holding. On 10 September 2004, the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund accepts the proposal for a settlement. 5th November 2004 Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund gave up the settlement. On 1 April 2005, the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund adopted a proposal for a settlement and exchange of shares. On 11 May 2005, the president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, former President Damir Ostojic, signed an agreement with the PIFs. August 4th, that is now the point, the government gives consent to the settlement agreement. On 8 August 2005, a settlement agreement is signed and Dom and Essen Holding is registered as owners of 93% of the "Liburnia" hotel. The former PIFs immediately pay 162m kuna to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. It is interesting that the Croatian Privatisation Fund has also been blocked for several months. 17 August 2005 The government is withdrawing consent. 19 August 2005 Home and Essen Holding submit a request for a public offer to take over Liburnia. On 13 September 2005, the Commission took a month to investigate. The 30.9.2005 attorney's office says the deal is void. 4.10. The government is proposing to the commission to take shares and enter the Croatian Privatisation Fund as the owner. 13.10. The Commission annuls the transaction between the Croatian Privatisation Fund and Dom and Essen Holding. In November 2005, the former PIFs filed a lawsuit in the administrative court against a solution by the Securities Commission. In December 2005 Home and Essen Holding file a new lawsuit in arbitration against the state, etc. This should complement the government's view of 5.4.2006. This is extremely complex for those of us who have been following this dispute ever since Mr. Axel Luttemberger came to the mayor's post and since he de facto opened it against Liburnia and since he managed to enlist a quarter of the company in the city. Did 2001 misjudge the government, I won't. But I do know he wasn't chosen by accident on 4.8th, the day before the holiday marked "Storm," Homeland Thanksgiving. So in the course of summer fairies, etc. That timing most, gentlemen, compromises the government. Although she has made it out of everything elegantly today, she has been running funds disputes after withdrawing consent to replace her on 17.8th. And I want to believe that in the end, they will succeed. The IDS is joining, as I said, this request is not because we think something of someone else's shift will bring us. It will not happen at all, but because first of all, it must not be forgotten about "Liburni" because it is a possible paradigm of privatisation and state-owned companies on the Adriatic. "Adriatics", "Imperials", "Liburnia", "Animals", etc. So as not to play ESO, so as not to play City of Opatija in their demand of 25% plus 1 share. Fourth, to talk about coupon privatisation, the mother of all converted robberies, the mother of all decomposition in Croatia, which in 10, I don't know, has sealed our future centuries, etc. Because there are stolen war victims here. Turning into Holding was also a disaster, and all of this was carried out by one, the other, the third, etc. The government, 600, if Mr. Hebrang has annulled the settlement with Mr. Ostoj, why is it that the 4.8th day is again completed and finally whether anyone remembers the only victim of the Damir Ostovic affair, president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund? What's certainly good is that "Liburnia" is a turning point in privatisation, etc. Eight, anyone can make a mistake, the question is if there was some hidden intention here and if it's going to open up some new privatisations, I don't know, for example. privatization of this Adriatic maritime service mentioned by Lončar, Mr Maras, Vrhovnik, etc., etc. The ninth to none, unfortunately nothing will happen to anyone, the only one who got hurt because he bought two ruins houses from which the pines grew was Jakovcic. Lastly, we know the outcome of this, based on the '55 verdict. years taken over in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia in '91. Finally, we know the outcome of this request as well as that of the previous meeting, so the point is to clearly preserve "Liburnia" and not to have similar "Liburnia" happening, and I could only invite the government to consult Mr. Lutenberger, I suppose, the only one who has succeeded in disputes over "Liburnia" or for something to fight in favor of the City of Opatija.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63979	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, the esteemed representative, Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63980	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and the honourable representatives of the government. Namely, you are incorrectly claiming that the Government has made an elegant exit from the Croatian Privatisation Fund Essen Holding and Dom Fund. The government concluded the deal and gave up the deal unilaterally under public pressure. The consequences of such an act are certainly harmful to the Republic of Croatia in a material and immaterial way. Which and what it'll all be, we'll just see and that's what we're discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63981	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63982	Thank you very much. The Honored Mr. MP asked the question why it was continued to negotiate after I, as chairman of the Fund's Management Board, had made a decision, at the head of the Management Board, to suspend the negotiations. Yes, I did, but that decision was only about the first arbitration and until then the debts and the performance that was under way, so that decision did not oblige Mr Polancec to continue the negotiations that followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63983	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63984	Here's a colleague Cain said literally, quote: "The only one who got hurt is poor Jakovcic who bought two ruins houses with pine trees.", finished quote. No, I'm correcting didn't get hurt because I'm here. I support the state policy of the country of Istria run by Jakovic and his business policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63985	Proposer, respected representative Slavko Linic. Gentlemen, please, a little less liveliness, uncreative living.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63986	Let me, with a few words on behalf of the motionary, also show myself to Mr. Vice President. The whole point of Mr. Vice-President's presentation which can otherwise be read from the government's reply is the indictment of all those of the former government of the Republic of Croatia for failing to deliver and conclude the settlement and all evil for Mr. Polancec, the Croatian Government of Ivo Sanader lies in it. Why didn't you make a deal? And now I repeat again, it's the right of the government to run politics. The coalition government, responsible people sitting on the Fund's Management Board, said the find of the State Review on Privatisation Crimes is what manages people in further behavior. A special fat report was a report on coupon privatisation. In this thick file of the State Audit, there is enormous damage to the Privatisation Fund. It was found that, irresponsiblely, without decisions by the competent authorities, the names of even the vice president and vice president of the Fund, not the Fund president, were given with a cap and a fist only to some PIFs. The defences as individuals were given nothing, they had no access to the exchange of shares. Without a tender which was the basis for the allocation of coupons and essentially the basis for acquisitions of shares in the coupon privatisation with the amounts paid for the first replacement that was conducted before 2000, and during the period the authorities handed over the new, additional swap agreements to up to 300 and a few million marks. Therefore, those who felt that the State Audit that was working on the audit found that everything was happening and that the settlement with people who apparently encouraged illegalities in the Privatisation Fund, influenced individuals who had signed such documents without decisions, with such documents was not possible, there was no and the decision was simple, disputed will be conducted, disputes will be conducted by the State Attorney's Office on behalf of the Croatian State and on behalf of the Privatisation Fund. The legal team of advisors was available to the State's Attorney's office, not to arbitration. Therefore, we have done everything to ensure that disputes are reached positively for both the Fund and the Croatian state. Yes, during the period of work of the coalition government three disputes received one lost. It's until the end of 2003. What should also be stated is the problem of the judiciary, which, on the same legal basis, conducts differently. And that's what we're talking about. But what happens after the coalition government? Imagine, the fund president becomes Mr. Ostovic. Mr. Ostovic was an assistant minister at the Ministry of Privatisation. He worked on a coupon privatisation, he was the one who damaged the PIF's sharing of shares that had negative business, which had problems. So he's the one who's the most if he's done evil to the PIFs exactly because he's been working on that part. Even the person who allowed 51% of ownership to be acquired by strategic companies where this should not be and which, according to government decisions, should not have been above 51%. That's exactly what he did. So, the person who worked to make the robbery happen in the privatisation, the person who caused and the damage is not mentioned anywhere by Mr Polancec or by the Croatian government. That same person later negotiates a settlement, that same person. So the one that caused the damage. We're not talking about them. We are not talking about persons who have signed without decisions of any competent authority, exchange shares and reduced the assets of the Privatisation Fund. Yeah, that's what happened. It all happened under the influence of people who ran the PIFs by so-called. companies that managed the PIFs and that is what many of us meant to be inability to talk about any kind of deal, any kind of deal and should have left the Croatian judiciary to make decisions, to pay for decisions by the decisions of the judiciary, and even if the cost of defence is of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and it should be paid. That was the former government's position. That's why you're calling us and at the same time you have a request from the HSP to undo everything that was before. And now it's my fault we didn't negotiate with these people, we didn't negotiate with those people. Wait a minute, something's wrong. You are now trying by the Croatian government Mr. Polancec to say that we are responsible because we refused to talk to people. Contracts if they are legally invalid because someone signed them without a decision from the competent authority, then we estimate that they are void. The Croatian government, Ivo Sanader, did so when Mr Polancec paid a billion and 200 million in shares, then the Croatian government found no contract. She made the decision to cancel the settlement because she has no decisions, no contracts. That's what the Croatian government of Ivo Sanader did, and we couldn't do anything but say we won't pay off see you in court. So that's where it's different. If the State Audit represents something in Croatia, if its finding is an obligation for all bodies and we have always claimed it, then we must understand that it is very important and that is why it has not been negotiated. But imagine now. The 2004 negotiations are under way by Vice President Hebrang. It's the same thing he's giving up because he sees that these people are hard to deal with. Vice President Polancec closes the deal, the government cancels. So what's the problem? Why can't you make a deal with these people? What's this about? Who is doing this against the interest of the Republic of Croatia and for the benefit of these people? Why have negotiations since 2004 failed? We're in 2006 today. Vice President Hebrang gave up, annulled his contracts and his decisions and Mr Polancec concluded and the government annulled. So something's not worth it among these people, something's not worth it among those partners. And now there's trouble. It's not a problem to pay for the verdict. 550 million would be paid than the problem now that some agreements have been concluded, some speculation has taken place, and now a billion and 200 million will be discussed. And if it had been paid by the verdicts, further disputes would have been held in the documents of the Fund, a clear position of the State Attorney's Office on the certainty of obtaining the dispute. And speaking of this case, Mr. Polancec, I suggest you speak to Mr. Bajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63987	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63988	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! At one point, counterpart Linic said there was no possible deal with the PIFs. I think it's an incorrect allegation because the settlement was quite possible and at the moment they lost those first disputes before arbitration, and it's actually seen from this file that they were the ones who offered the settlement at the time. And today, when we analyze all of this, I believe that it was the most convenient moment and that then the settlements were made, the Republic of Croatia would have passed the cheapest. And you said she made a decision to go into a dispute. I am telling you that this is the worst decision possible because it will actually cost us the most, and that is where the Republic of Croatia will suffer the greatest damage. But what if I can predict is I think the most qualitative solution is to end it with a settlement after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63989	Second correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Gentlemen, please don't pollemize this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63990	Mr. President, here I am correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Linic, who claims that the former government has done everything to protect the state interest which is not true. Because that way, you wouldn't leave her in the legacy and the word that's being used all the time and that's the word of the occasion. The Fund's performance, high school performance, accounting and today have a picture of the former government that remembers an elemental accident called the coalition power and I think the Slovenians have started the performance in the Piran Bay or the Savudrian Valley on the basis of your contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63991	Third correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63992	Your Honor, Mr. President! I am correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Linic, who boasts almost 3:1 for the former government, and then apparently Polancec hit her two cars naked, so the ratio is 3:3. I'd be by a thousand 481:0 because out of a thousand 556 cases, it's only 75 legal, then we could brag.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63993	The fourth correction by the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63994	Mr. President, it is an absolutely incorrect quote from Mr. Linic where he claims that the prospects for obtaining disputes were more than real. In all the reports submitted by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, it is clear and unequivocal that the legal disputes were more than minimal to obtain and therefore all what was done and disputed during this time of their rule was a huge damage to the Republic of Croatia as well as to the Privatisation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63995	For the club of HSP representatives, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63996	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished gentlemen of the Croatian government. It is a shame, Mr. President, that this debate will most likely not be all in direct transmission on HTV because it is indeed one of the key affairs not to say scandals in Croatian privatisation. The privatisation of the "Liburnia" Riviera with such a settlement is actually "Sun-Hvar" squared and therefore it is necessary to pay attention here to all the moments that have led to the existing state. The matter begins naturally by forming a PIF or privatisation-investment fund under the 1997 PIF Act. So the war victims were free to share coupons or "wouchers" to which they would buy shares of Croatian companies. On behalf of this, companies for the management of PIFs are formed which are due to be deposited at 12 and a half million kunas in order to be able to deal with this business. The first fundamental question that is raised here is why the state did not instead bring together a part of such shares into a special state fund but believed that private funds would take better care of war victims than the Croatian State itself. Of course, the PIFs created and their management companies have a portfolio of approximately EUR 1.7 billion, respectively. The report from the State Rivision that we all got from February 2002 on this episode is more than sad. For the first time, a coupon allocation programme has not been adopted and carried out in a legal and prescribed manner for which it is primarily responsible for the Privatisation Fund. Apparently, colleagues from HDZ are getting perfectly clear here. Therefore, as the first programme of the coupon allocation of shares has not been adopted and carried out in a legally prescribed manner in accordance with the PIF Act. Second, the entire portfolio of shares intended for PIFs was not presented to the public. All the companies that were to be included were not included in the purchasing privatisation process and really transferred shares were auctioned and not matched. Then why isn't that stopped already? Therefore, not only that, but it was not privatised by exclusively profitable companies, which provided for by the PIF Act, but often very quickly went into bankruptcy by companies assigned to the PIFs. After that, there is even greater madness. It's coming to the so-called. Exchange of shares. So it was obvious that the PIFs from the part of the shares they received would not be able to prepare themselves in a good way to pay dividends for wartime victims and stock exchanges were allowed. Logically, the question arises why is the replacement of shares not carried out as one would expect? To have all the PIFs just return the Fund to that so-called. Bad stock. To take back their "wolves" and then make a second round of auctions for so-called. Good stock. Instead, it all worked out by concluding the Fund's contract with each PIF individually, with eye stock estimates such as the Privatisation Fund and the whole process, forgive me for saying so at a simple cattle fair. And now we're coming up with the ultimate craziness, which is that the PIFs claim someone owes them something. It's like a joke about Bobby and Rudy. When Bobby comes to Rudy's and says, "Ruddy, lend me 100 kuna." Then Rudy says to him, "Look, I can't lend you 100, but I can borrow 50." Then he says, "Okay, now loan me 50, but you owe me 50 more." So this whole case and everything that happened afterwards is actually based on an ugly version of a joke about Bobby and Rudy. And now be careful after that, the PIFs have been enabled to replace the shares, but there has been no exchange of shares for individuals with war victims. Watch out for that absurd. So the PIFs could have changed shares, but, and the war casualties that made it all start out couldn't change the shares. Why? And what the PIFs were doing was past the PIF Act. Why? The first exchange of shares according to the audit found was concluded in December and it returned the shares of Sugar Virovitica in exchange for the shares of the company "Riviera Holding" and it already appears in that replacement PIF "Dom", the hero of this affair. So with that replacement, PIF "Dom" got 92% more valuable shares than those that were returned. So I think it's just that it's already completely obvious what's actually been going on. The Privatisation Fund should not have concluded any share swap agreement with the PIFs until the PIFs were entered into the court register and had not placed their accumulated shares on the regulated public market of shares, therefore on the stock market. But it did happen, and the question is, why was this done outside the regulated public market of shares? So these are obvious illegalities. These obvious illegalities have been identified in the findings of the State audit. And the problem is that it all came up with, implemented, approved and tolerated by the HDZ government until 2000. And after that comes Racan's government to whom it's all obvious and it's all known. There is even a finding of the Audit, but unfortunately, despite the obvious fact that the whole process does not go according to the PIF Act, it is necessary to repeal all zero and illegal swap agreements that have been made under the PIF Act because the PIF Act does not, unfortunately, provide for either counterpart Linic or Racan's Government to do anything but engage in arbitration. Why not a trade court? Why don't you go to court so you can go to second-degree, so to the High Court of Commerce if the first-degree hearing doesn't make it work? Why go to, why go to arbitration when it is obvious that the rightful word of arbitration is final and that it can be refuted then and only if there is a decision of that permanent electoral court, therefore an arbitration court which is opposed to the public legal order. Unfortunately, that's what happened. Unfortunately, the arbitrations went the way they did. There remains an enigma why the same disputes, on the exact same case, on the exact same types of arbitration cases in some cases were judged in favour of the state, and in some for the benefit of the PIFs. It's a thing that's a lot of mystery. This is a matter where our lawyers are being investigated, but the lawyers of the European Union countries dealing with arbitration are also being investigated. So, as it was possible for some arbitration on the exact same case to end up in favour of the state and some for the benefit of the PIFs. Unfortunately, we came to the conclusion that it all ended up in a trade court and then the same story again. In some cases, in the exact same model of the case, the judge shall rule in favour of the State or judgment in favour of the Fund. Which means there isn't really any certainty that the judge will rule, or any logic in that verdict. What's suma summarum of that sad story, so there's some kind of... Which we don't believe in HSP, because it's based on Bobby and Rudy's relationship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the first one. Secondly, arbitrary debt-determining due to irreplaceable shares was crowned by an arbitrary assessment of the value of "Liburnia" Hotel Riviera, which is the fault of Mr Polancec. This arbitrary transfer of shares of PIFs to holdings outside the law. It's really all a set of incredible randomities that he's finally mastered, and this whole series of arbitraryities and completely past legal signatures is crowned by Mr. Polancec. And what interests me particularly, both me and my colleagues at the HSP Club, is why I went to a settlement with the PIFs before the end, or before the conclusion of the court disputes at the Trade Court, which require an attempt to annul the words in connection with the arbitration proceedings which have been conducted there. What was the rush? And therefore, not only is Mr Polancec not going to get our support but we are interested in a series of information that I ask this High House to give us support to ask the Croatian government. In the first place, we want the Government to report to the Croatian Parliament on the course of the proceedings at the Commercial Court in Zagreb for the annulment of the legal proceedings in connection with the permanent court of the Chamber of Commerce. We are still asking the Government to brief us in those 30 days on what it has done to ensure that the rightful word is in favour of Croatia. And thirdly, we are terribly interested in what is the ownership structure of SN Holding and Dom Holding. So be careful what it's about. In his interest, the Government shall submit within 30 days a report which is the ownership structure of SN Holding and Dom Holding which was covered by this settlement. Why am I telling you this? Because today, after the PIFs turned into closed investment funds, which is in line with the PIF Act, but after that, they also turned into holding companies, which is contrary to the PIF Act in 2004, which this government did not respond to, and something in 2003 that Racan's government did not react to. We don't really know who are the real owners of all these holdings, especially in these two holding companies that took part in a deal with the state. In particular, the 15% owner of SN Holding is Sava Invest Fund from the Slovenian Kranj. So when they turned into holding companies they started selling shares and we don't know who really owns all these former PIFs today. It is the state's duty to report to the Croatian Parliament on the ownership structure of all these PIFs, and it is the minimum correctness of Mr Polancec to report to the Croatian Parliament on the ownership structure of these two funds with which you tried to reach a settlement. That we know who we're talking to. And don't tell me you don't know that. Because what a transparent form of governance it is if you conclude a million-euro compensation contract without knowing who we're actually negotiating with as a state. Who owns it? Who's behind them? And whose interests are we actually satisfied with these deals? So, it is a matter regardless of whether you get the Parliament's trust or not, which the Croatian government has owed, together with you, to give to the Croatian public these six months. But we didn't see it. I could do some research on the Internet right now, asking around. But it was your duty to go public with the Croatian public and tell them who we're really guessing with. And especially to say the basis for which the revolutionation occurred is just as much debt. And where exactly "Liburnia" was so evaluated from. So it's a whole series of incredible randomities that you can't get our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63997	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63998	Mr. President, it is an incorrect allegation that an esteemed colleague, Tonci Tadic, had to wait for the powerful judgments of commercial courts, because it was clear that they had sat down the executions, the blocking of accounts, the payment of fines of 100 thousand kuna per day and demanded a quick and spotful resolution... the situation, and that's why it had to react, not wait for the judgments of the trade courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is not true that war victims could not change shares in addition to that Act on the Croatian Homeland Fund. It clearly defines that they can, that the state has provided 5 years of dividend payments for those shares that do not produce dividends and which do not make dividends. And after 5 years, there was also a need to regulate the exchange of shares for those companies such as "Print" that were no longer valuable on the capital market. Namely, there are trials being conducted today regarding the same Homeland Fund, but no government, not before, nor Racanov took important steps or court proceedings to sanction those who did not do their job properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u63999	Second correction, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64000	I am correcting my colleague's incorrect claim that the government has chosen arbitration, or the Board of Directors of the Fund. The arbitration was provided for agreements on exchanges of shares signed by people by 2000. And basically respecting the agreements in some way, we had to lead the arbitration team. And after the arbitration ended, we went to regular court proceedings. And also, as regards the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the former Assembly and the Management Board of the Fund for all these irregularities, criminal charges have been filed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64001	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64002	Well, it's an incorrect claim, and I'm also correcting that it was a mistake to conduct arbitration for reasons that Mr. Linic has now explained. And you said you were supposed to go to the High Court of Commerce. Only Mr. Tadic, you forget that he was already waiting for Šepic at the High Court of Commerce. And now if it had come to the High Court of Commerce, then the money would not have ended with Ostoja but would have shared it with Blaz Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64003	Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64004	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that by 2003 the government had done nothing about PIFs, or investment funds. I will remind you of my colleague Tadic, that in the second half of 2003, the government proposed the Investment Funds Act where these problems of PIFs, open and closed investment funds were to be solved. The PIFs of these seven who sent us letters, they got up on their backs and we in the Parliament didn't even have the will to discuss it in the first reading of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64005	Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64006	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened carefully to Mr. Linic's lab, and with one thing, I absolutely agree with him. We don't need to discuss this here, nor do I want to channel the debate in this direction why you didn't settle with SN Holding and Dom Holding in 2002. Here is a fundamental debate in your request for a vote of no confidence because of my actions that have caused damage. This is where we talk and talk about the damage that has taken place for the Croatian Privatisation Fund and for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this is what this is about. Most of all, most of all in the elaborated by Mr Tadic about the coupon privatisation that has already been conducted here in this House of Commons several times, I have nothing to say contrary to his views. This was definitely determined by the findings of the State Audit Office, and I really confirm what he spoke about coupon privatisation and Mr Tadic and Mr Linic. However, we are talking about the damage done, gentlemen, and the most important elements of the findings of the State Audit Office, and regarding coupon privatisation, non-transparent coupon privatisation, inadequate placing of companies that do not comply with the rules on the list of coupon privatisation, unauthorized decision-making, agreement on the compensation of shares that are... All right. [[You don't understand.]] However, I would like to say very clearly that the findings of the State Audit Office were based on the Privatisation Fund, the State's Attorney's Office, for legal annulment suits. Based on the findings of the State Audit Office, we have formed our views and based on these views we have initiated judicial disputes. Nevertheless, we lost those disputes. We lost our words at the arbitration hearings regarding SN Holding and Dom Holding, and we lost the lawsuits we're looking for the annulment of the law in the trade court, and the basis of our performance is just the findings of the State Audit Office. And I very clearly also want to say that it is, once and for all, that we are done. Therefore, this finding by the State Audit Office is also the basis of the requested opinion by the Privatisation Fund. Whether there are elements, criminal responsibilities in the signed agreement on the remuneration of shares because the Privatisation Fund submitted its criminal application and requested an indication of the State's Attorney's Office related to that in June 7th 2004, Mr Linic, the State's Attorney's Office, not only in the event of a report on the Virovitica Sugarna, but also a report and an indication of whether there are elements of the crime in all the shares' compensation contracts, and that report clearly states no. I'm not here to judge. The courts are here to judge, it's up to me to collect maximum evidence and information that is the basis for protecting our views. Therefore, the opinion of the State Audit Office has been taken into account, which is the view of the basis for all our actions and judicial proceedings. However, we have lost court proceedings in a commercial court, filed complaints and they are in the High Court of Commerce and we have an indication of the State's Attorney's office that there are no elements of criminal responsibility. Now I'm going back to that damage question, Mr. Linic. If that's the case, then I'm going back to the question of responsibility for the damage. I can agree with you, once again, to mention, in the most part about coupon privatisation and with shortcomings related to coupon privatisation, but the damage had to be minimalized, the damage was done, it had to be minimalized. And that's why I'm talking to you because you called me to do something that's too bad for the Republic of Croatia. I responsibly claim your actions were wherever and where more harmful and caused the multiplication of that damage. And, Mr. Tadic, we weren't in a hurry to do this. We weren't in a hurry at all, I'm sorry, not with the tip, but with the deal. We fought with legal means as hard as possible. But let us not forget that we were, that the account of the Croatian Privatisation Fund was blocked by the basis of the blockade launched by SN holding. Let us not forget that it was necessary to carry out the exercise on the basis of the Dom Holding River without having had shares that were the subject of the river, that we had to pay the penalty of 100 thousand kuna a day and that it threatened Mr Ostovic with jail time. So we've been taking into account the findings of the State Audit Office, he's the basis for all our legal struggle. We lost in a commercial court of law enforcement lawsuit and we were in a situation of blockade, execution and lack of shares that were the subject of an execution and a justice which was received by Dom Holding. And for this reason, we have approached again for these reasons with negotiations and talks to minimise the damage that has definitely already occurred under the given circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64007	A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64008	So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of the esteemed vice president, he says, we've been fighting with legal means, by means of appropriate means of these situations of the ban on shares, neither the former government nor the current government fought, because they agreed that this contract exists, instead of going to advertise zero these contracts because, contrary to the law, it's the answer, and then there would be no harm. So you've been fighting wrongly with each other's legal means, unsuitable. You've confessed to something that's legally void. It's a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64009	But that's not an incorrect quote. It's an injury, it's a different attitude. ... Well, well, colleague Kovacevic, you know what a correction to an incorrect quote is? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] One statement from the vice president was made. You state against the claim that you should have worked on other legal means. Well, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's putting in a certain different proposal. You can code, peace there! Dear Representative Slavko Linic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64010	I'm correcting the wrong quote of the vice president who says he's aware of all the illegalities in the conduct of the coupon privatisation process. If he had not been aware of this, Mr Ostojić would not have been the President of the Fund and would not have kept a settlement for the reason that he himself had personally conducted the procedure of coupon privatisation and had been responsible, he was responsible for the enormous damage caused by the entire process of coupon privatisation and today's situations for the Croatian state. And I'm also correcting the quote, on 7 June 2004, under the number KR-DO-975-01, the State's Attorney's office's opinion on criminal proceedings is only in the process of returning shares for Virovitica sugar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64011	And the esteemed representative Tonči Tadic, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64012	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you say you wanted to minimize the damage with a settlement like this. But it's really unclear why it went to a settlement before the end of court proceedings, and it's particularly unclear who you were actually guessing with because we don't have any obvious. Neither the government, of course, nor those funds that are their ownership structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64013	Comrade Tadic, please, too. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, you've been troublesome about why it didn't go the other way. Gentlemen, when discussing the trust or mistrust of a member of the Government or of the Government, you have the possibility of being an apostrophe of a proposing or a person whose trust is intended to be replicated. So use that instrumentation, and don't go through the correction of incorrect allegations. Dear representative Milanka Opačić, on behalf of the SDP Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64014	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There are many reasons why today we must discuss the work of the Government, i.e. the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Damir Polancec and no less important to the President of the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Today, as well as some colleagues before me, we will remind ourselves of the exiles and war victims who have been robbed and deceived for the third time in the coupon privatisation. First in their aggression against Croatia, property was destroyed, and they were exiled from the hearth, then others privatized their businesses and valuable assets, but not kept their jobs. And then they split their shares and double-crossed them again. They bought their, as they said, unworthy shares so that today they would be worth 15 or 20 times more. Nobody raised their voice then and said don't sell them, don't buy them bags because they didn't care, they looked only at the personal benefit and how they'd earn it. They've been provided with enormous wealth from the genius fund managers, those who haven't paid almost any dividends in years and that small number of remaining stockholders, and on each purchased package, they've earned at least 15 to 20 times the minimum. Only 5 to 6 years later, with HDZ coming back to power, these same people are back in business. Damir Ostovic, today's appointed head of the Croatian Privatisation Fund from 95th to 98th, was assistant minister of privatisation, including in charge of coupon privatisation. They're making a settlement for a settlement for a problem that they've made conscious of their own time. For a job the State Audit told them was harmful to the state, but thus all taxpayers. It's a shame that the stock swaps were getting more funds than they should have. Harmful because the Croatian Privatisation Fund did not keep an orderly exchange record, so the Dom Fund, for example, sold shares that should have been returned to include their amount in the case against the state later. In any more serious firm, if I didn't say, for example, the bank would have had many, from the board members to the perpetrators, and the investigations and criminal charges that I don't speak. Worse still, Mr. Polancec, in his opening speech today, defended exactly this kind of stock exchange. Those who sign deals today then broke the rules together, media concluded last August. They may not have imagined then that they had said and given the most summary description of the entire coupon privatisation in just one sentence. Why today's debate and this interpretation? Because only today after 6 months can it be seen clearly that everything that happened last August at closed cabinet sessions, ahead of the annual vacations, far from the public was not a mistake or awkwardness but a thoughtful action at the expense of the Croatian state and all the users of the budget. Damir Polancec then declares: "I have never seen a State Review report on coupon privatisation before." Damir Ostovic says, "It is entirely irrelevant to me what the report says." Prime Minister Sanader, meanwhile, says, "I expect the State's Attorney's Office to give us an opinion on the whole process, but on the process that has taken place since the beginning of the coupon privatisation." The moment Prime Minister Sanader said so, he had the opinion of the State's Attorney's Office. Prime Minister Ratko Macek declares that the Uzi cabinet has concluded that the government's negotiating positions on talks with the holding companies are being established as soon as possible, for which Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec is in charge, noting that he expects these negotiations to end very soon. The government is not withdrawing its decision under pressure, but if it has been deluded, as in the case of "Liburnia", Prime Minister Sanader said, and announced that in a few weeks it should be almost a proposal for a new Privatisation Act that will also regulate labour stockholdership. We heard all that in mid-August and early September last year. What's been done since then, almost nothing. They didn't even implement it, or you didn't even implement all the decisions to resolve the Head of the Privatisation Fund. I quote: "The government has also concluded that due to the failure to prepare a proposal for the government, the president of the Privatisation Fund, Damir Ostovic, is being resolved. The proposal was also addressed to the Fund's board of directors to dismiss the duties and Vice President Ivan Gotovina." Ostovic left but Gotovina is also the president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund today. If it wasn't an accident, you'd understand again when you read Mr. Ratka Cat. The government spokeswoman reiterated that Polancec did not know about the fact that the Fund's Management Board put out of force last November a September agreement with SN Holding. A notice on that, argues Cat, has not arrived at the government. Perhaps this conclusion about Mr. Gotovina in the government has not come to light either. This turns out no one in the government knows anything. As things stand today, the prime minister doesn't know what the government and ministers are doing to him, because decisions are obviously not being made, except in the case of local elections, then HITRO HR, quickly the HDZ is doing the full money by spending taxpayers' money for party purposes. On several occasions here in this House, we have asked the Prime Minister a question in the current hour about what he will do to those responsible and responsible for deciding on a harmful settlement with the holding companies in the case of Liburni. These questions instead of answers and concrete moves have only been given an avalanche of insults and harsh political qualifications. Since there is obviously no responsibility in the government for the country's citizens' adverse moves, the SDP club has decided to request Mr. Damir Polancec's replacement due to a harmful settlement in the case of "Liburni" as well as other deals that the public still knows nothing about, but will soon find out. It may also be a good opportunity for you, Mr Polancec, to inform the Croatian public and us here about some other settlements that are under way, but also all those amounts that Croatian citizens will have to pay for some more of your harmful decisions. You have heard more about the whole settlement on behalf of the promoter Slavko Linic, and I will try to answer the question on behalf of the SDP club why this is not a coincidence, but a thought-out effect on the damage of the Croatian state and taxpayers. If you're doing damage to the state at the expense of rich funds, I guess one of these should benefit. According to all publicly available information HDZ directly charged its brokerage services. In fact, Mr. Ostova himself admitted publicly that with 500 thousand kuna he financed a pre-election HDZ campaign and that's what we know. That there is much more that we do not know has been confirmed by Prime Minister Sanader himself, who said HDZ is only being financed one-third of the budget. Well, then who the gentlemen have blacked out 34 million kunas to quote the title in one newspaper because there's just so much money missing if the reported incomes of Mr. Sanader and Mr. Sanader are compared? No wonder you didn't want to deliver your business data transparens international. In this way, anti-corruption policies cannot be implemented, and it is no wonder that Brussels does not trust you because of this behaviour, you will have a much bigger problem with the fact that even Croatian citizens do not trust you anymore. You pay half a million, you get 700, there is really no more in the Croatian lottery where there are no such players who could finance such a thing. This can only be paid by taxpayers whose money you spend on a charity, so it is high time to put an end to it. You're not just hiding the financial business of HDZ, you're hiding the damage in the case of the "Viatro vector" where citizens still don't have the information they're going to pay from the state budget. You hide numerous government decisions from the public, to mention only the Stone Ingrad affair and this decision to settle with the holding companies you hid from the Croatian public, hoping that no one will notice it in the summer months in the season of acidic cucumbers, which is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64015	Please be on the subject, no other cases, now the subject is clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64016	In the past two and a half years, Sanader's government has undoubtedly been a successful and consistent bar in one, in the decisive withdrawal of wrong decisions under public pressure, which only shows that there is simply no strategy in the area of privatisation and economy. Mr Polancec, as chairman of the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, should also know how much real estate has disappeared from the Fund since the arrival of this Government. The public doesn't know that, only from time to time, suddenly some object is found on the market without a competition even though it was known to everyone that state property, income in the budget, is unknown, according to the practice so far zero kuna. If all of this is not enough reason to ask for the discussion of the Deputy Prime Minister's capacity for Mr. Polancec's economy to conduct his duty at all what else should he add? The public is already well-known that the former government is guilty of all the bad moves of Sanader's government and after two and a half years of the new government. We knew very well how to deal with Ostora and... The deal is only possible as agreed by you, which means that you give them 700 million kuna and take donations, all on account of the taxpayers of Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Similar deals from the '90s have impoverished defenders, widows, workers. We thought we'd never see that movie again. Unfortunately, we're watching it again. Mr Polancec is also guilty of deluding the Government of the Republic of Croatia for concealing the opinion of the civil management department of the State Attorney's Office which warned the government that the dispute is ongoing and that it is possible for the state to win the dispute. This Parliament also informed the State Attorney's Office that, in certain cases, it continues to consider the possibility of potential criminal liability of persons involved in the exchange of shares procedures. Mr Polancec is also guilty of not using the State Review report on coupon privatisation, in which it is evident that it is not good to enter into a deal with the above-mentioned holding companies because the findings unequivocally result that the illegal exchange procedures of shares in question have already damaged the Croatian Privatisation Fund. By guessing the responsible persons of the Croatian Fund in late '99. and in early 2000, those holding companies had priority over the other PIFs, especially the defenders. Ignoring the findings of the State Audit and the lack of consultation with the State Attorney's Office alone are sufficient reasons to seek Mr Polancec's shift. Such ignoring has led to the fact that the situation in which the holding companies have a significant advantage in possible litigation or new settlements, and it is not surprising that we do not have enough information about it. In this way, Mr Polancec provided additional income to the holding companies on at least 700 million kuna and all on the expense of taxpayers. To make someone 10, 15 or 25 times, and then that's how much more it sounds amazing. That only one of the aforementioned things Mr. Polancec has done as vice president in a foreign company that Prime Minister Sanader is so pleased to call has long been fired and criminal charges for unwitting business. We at the SDP Club are aware that these moves could not have gone without the support of the entire government and also of Prime Minister Sanader himself, but because of these arguments at the expense of Mr Polancec himself, in our opinion, his responsibility is unquestionable and therefore, on behalf of the SDP Club, we propose to the Parliament to vote him out of confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64017	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64018	Mr. President, here I quote the incorrect assumption that this is the government's failed action on the expense of taxpayers. It is true that this is a pre-election demagogy of obviously virtual elections that goes to the voters forget about your failed policy of the incomprehensible government and the Privatisation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64019	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64020	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! The Honorable colleague, Opačić, has led to this registration of ten incorrect allegations, and I will be free to correct this one and there that season of pickled pickles, I will probably not get there. She said: "The Prime Minister doesn't know what the government or ministers are doing." Dear colleagues, I'm not sure that's what you think of the truth. This quote you are using for other purposes, and that is exclusively for political purposes and not for this serious debate of trust. That quote is not correct. The Prime Minister, the Croatian government and ministers are doing their job responsibly in accordance with the Croatian laws and powers that come out of these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64021	The fourth correction by the respected representative Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64022	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Vice Prime Minister! In her speech on behalf of the SDP, which was presented in the form of the indictment of Ms Milanka Opačić, she said: "Mr Polancec, in his opening speech, defended this exchange of shares by saying that the shares were replaced" which is not true because Mr Polancec, in his opening address, said that the coupon privatisation was a noble attempt to divide the shares of the rightholders but the process by the restoring Ministry and the Croatian Privatisation Fund was conducted inadequately in which there was a series of objections contained in the State Audit Office Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64023	Thank you. At 17.24 p.m., the time for individual debate on this topic was up for ten minutes. Club representatives of HSLS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64024	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. To begin with, members of the Croatian Social Liberal Party Club will not participate in this film. I must admit that as a man, I'm crushed when here in this assembly some colleagues say it's something to avoid doing that and then the other MP is a dead cold answer to an institution or something. There's a Shepic waiting for us at the Commercial Court and it's probably the same thing again. I'm not going in and I don't want to be a lawyer or Mr. Šepić or any institution. But that we can freely say that we do not trust our institutions and that, in fact, then, I think what message we are sending to the public. That this society is truly structured by some of the principles of rule of law, whether there are some rules of play or really everything is allowed, or whether it is really so contaminated by politics and by everyday politics, ruling politics that it really doesn't make sense then, too. So nothing's going to happen, Mr. Šepic will remain behind and probably someone else has someone else's Pawic or some other institution he doesn't believe in. Well, then, normally, why would it be that the citizens trust us if that's what it really is and we raise our hands for both this court and that court, and for this institution or that institution, and that we're actually already doing all that without trusting those people and those institutions? And that's why I'm saying, we're not going to participate in this movie because what we're doing is actually nothing more than knowing the polarisation of the Croatian political scene where they profit the strongest. And that's how it is. And here, these elections at the flower shop showed it. I think it is neither short-term nor long-term good for Croatia. And so I'm saying, don't ask us to participate in this film and actually show that it's only true here, either-or, black-and-white world, binary logic, schemaism, typically medieval schoolgirls. Well, we don't think so and we don't want to, let's say in a skillful play of skilled manipulations to participate because it's clear to them that politics, that the assembly can't be a courtroom. I'm not a financial expert, I'm not even a legal expert. I doubt that one of us is as many as 152 as we are sitting here that someone can really say the same about being a financial expert or a legal expert in the Liburnia case or any other case. So we moved to the policy field. There's a bunch of numbers, dates, etc. Balzac said, "Nothing stupid like a fact.". I really agree with that. I can't follow. I want to believe, and I'm not one of those people who doesn't believe when some data is subsidized, but I'm saying obviously it's not even about Damir Polancec, but it's actually an attempt to actually be politicized and that this public, to be shared and certainly that the media loves these strong gestures, strong rhetoric and that it's then being created, then it's really creating a feeling that someone is fighting for something and all those who point out in this story are not involved they're actually slowly eliminated from our political life. I think fortunately, however, Croatia is not America, neither is the UK to set a model for us and to be our future. And I'm saying, I don't think this polarization is good for us, that now it really shows that our transition will last too long and that it is what it is for us with all the difficulties when we don't believe in institutions ourselves, we don't believe in the people we put in charge of these very prestigious institutions that are in some way correct, who are in some way implementing what this legislative authority is bringing. I could do the same again if I were right and if that same bipolarization existed then I'll just remind you this way to try it out there in December of 2004, then in a way, after handover the authorities were talking about how skeletons fall out of the closet. But there's nothing new in the West. The same was said after January 3rd that some were, in fact, lost, doubioze where and where greater than the greatest pessimists had predicted. And then it's been going on like this for a couple of months, the media's having fun with it, and then after that, it's not really happening anymore, and everything that's been really threatening doesn't happen at all. But now that we're getting nervous, we're getting nervous. Here, it's been two years since this government's mandate. We're slowly entering this election year. Now we're gonna start dating again with some skeletons and now we should all cheer and participate in this game of left and right, black and white, good and bad. Still, as far as the liberals are concerned, it won't work. I remember that some people since 1992 when they were, those in the minority have also fought for their devilish or whatever their identity is. He is very important and indeed there are political forces in this country, people who still think about many things differently. And they don't think that this is the way politics can be dealt with by the problems this country is burdened with. Because if one institution doesn't work, then we're going to change it, so probably according to the principle of political similarity, we're going to bring in someone of our own who's going to fit the next term, the projections, the programs of each other's team. I think a lot of these mistakes have been made in the past. We accuse this man even of what happened in 1997 when he wasn't even the Deputy Prime Minister. So it turns out that, yes, excuse yourself, Mr. Racan, I don't know why you're nervous? This is the topic, this is the topic because it is shown how it is being led in Croatia, how public opinion is being created in Croatia. You participate in what wise men call a perfect crime. That the media kill reality and the capital kills ethics. You're a great part of it. I'm not taking part in that. And that's what this is about. And that's what this is about. [[Applause.]] It's not about Polancec. I don't care who claps. Because this isn't 3:1, so 3:3. I don't care about that. I don't care about that. And please, and don't impute me something that you really, what, so you want me to root for you? I'm not rooting for, I'm not rooting for either side, and please don't know why you're nervous? I repeat, you're involved in the perfect crime. It's described in the literature. It's nothing new, I didn't make it up, but it's just like that. The media is killing reality. The capital kills ethics and then who's alive, who's dead? That suits you, too. That suits you. Well, it shows that only some people get punished in the election, and some people don't. What Jupiter can do can't be done by someone else. There she is, so that was your 92nd theme, too, colleague Opačić. That was the theme for you in 1992. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] Then you asked that the electoral threshold be... After all. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] What are we talking about? So be at least elementally correct You know Lenin... [[Intruder: No polemics of nature!]] A very wise man says, "The conscience is usually late for a meeting with a neighbor." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64025	Order there!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64026	That's why I'm not rooting for you, too, and that's why I said I didn't participate in this war because equally, equally, if you listened a little more carefully, I said what was said after November 23rd, 2003? That skeletons fall out. But that's what we said in the coalition government, so none of those skeletons were there. That's the problem. And then five years later, we're facing these problems. And now you're asking me to cheer. Well, I won't cheer! ... I'm not talking to you at all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I speak to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64027	Come on, please, don't pollemize! Order! Order! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64028	Please don't set me up. I've never allowed myself to settle in my life. And I know it's not pleasant to listen to. I understand that completely. It is clear to me that from the autocratic authorities, only worse arbitration is power. Only the Arbitral Authority is worse, and that this country has too much arbitration since its very beginning. Yes, there is. Yeah, yeah. That's you, so I guess you passed that on some exams. ... Comrade Pancic, you can't pass on any of the lists. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it's definitely like, "Liburnia" and not just "Liburnia" has to get the owner. And the wise state must determine the strategy it will also have on ownership issues. And is that what it is, and she needs to help find a strategic partner, but to keep the control package in that story. 25% plus 1. Now I could be bad too, but I won't be bad because they've been doing it both ways, and I'm afraid there's gonna be a third that some things, I won't mention... So let me just say that I really don't turn out to be bad when that strategic control package was going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that why we're going to judge someone now? Or are we still going to contextualize some things? And normally when that, and when a specific strategy is defined which unfortunately, which unfortunately does not happen, then what happens to us happens to us. Local self-government is excluded as it is today, but God forbid between 2000 and 2005. And then the local self-government didn't participate, so you had one Axel, so you had this newest mayor of Opatija that actually led, who sort of waged their own private wars because no one really, no one, was too concerned about what it was about the citizens who were employed in these hotels. As far as the territory of their municipalities or cities is concerned. These are all things that have been completely ignored. And now I could count it again, but there's no need to, because then we're going to go right back to this one... logic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A little bit of us, a little bit of you, and that's how we're gonna be. That's how we talk about one law today. That's how it's talked about the Corruption Act, that's how it's said, that's more or less about all the laws where we're competing to prove who's less or more bad or good? It's not the right way. And in that story, actually, the library doesn't want any part of it. And that story is devastating for forming a political scene of Croatia because it is actually a threat to actually say political life to the end of the simplifying, and I fear that within that, face and appearance there is no such big difference as it actually wants to show to the public. And now... It's about these stock swaps, that it has to be done carefully and that one of the possible ways is to make these possible and those debts that exist to be dispersed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That this is really not how it is created to suit someone but these are all the things that are really only responsible people to whom, and who will certainly pay their own price of responsibility or irresponsibility in the next election. Whether or not they're actually doing something else, something completely different, and then something that's unworthy is changing for the whole of it and in no way does this dispersion happen. I say what I have to say, or what we're going to insist on as a club, which is really that the state retains that control package, 21, 25 plus 1. To lead one, indeed, to have, to have a strategy, to have a policy, yes, and in all segments of this economy that in this way actually eliminate or completely eliminate the element of speculation, and they just have to be aware that every speculative moment it actually disrupts business, and then that bad business has a whole series of precisely these side effects, primarily social effects, the problem of unemployment, everything that we have to deal with afterwards, and then actually all of this sort of works out that this transition takes too long. And that's actually what we don't learn as a society in our own mistakes. Yes, in fact, every time we turn on a road or some problem when we try to solve that we always carry the luggage of those before us who should have passed that time long ago. In this very sense I said this is completely irrelevant to us, this is a political debate that is not in the function of solving the real problems of economics in society, but simply the beginning of a pre-election campaign. Since one party is headed, then allow the other party not to participate, not defending this other party either. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64029	Thank you. One series of incorrect, correcting incorrect allegations. First, respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64030	counterpart Kramaric says those who do not want to decide on this topic are eliminated from political life. On the contrary, they themselves are eliminated from political life. This is where corruption is being debated. This is where Parliament takes its stand on whether one government, one minister, will allow a holding company to benefit illegally from 700 million kuna and that holding his party donates... is actually a bribe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64031	Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64032	Let that bribe, keep quiet about it like you keep your colleague Kramaric quiet about it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64033	Correction, which is it? My fellow Stazic, don't, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. You're saying what the counsel didn't say. You're correcting what he didn't say. Don't do that. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So you don't need to go on about it. Dear representative Mato Churchvenac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64034	Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Kramaric's claim that this is deliberate manipulation of the matter being politicized. And that's something ugly that HSLS won't be involved in. HSLS washed his hands from participating in privatisation problems already and when, when the judiciary failed, we failed when the audits failed. For a year and a half, we've been working on the IRS to get the money, at least some of the money to those who took what they weren't supposed to take in the privatisation. And that's when HSLS washed his hands out of that law. In that coalition, too, there was no ready for it. If the Parliament shuts up about it and it is the manipulation of privatisation in Croatia, corruption, washing hands like Kramarić today, then it will be a perfect crime by the quotes we will use there. And just to say, the privatisation of Mr. Kramaric is not nearly complete. There's still a lot to be privatized about, and there's got to be a lot to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64035	Zdenko Antešić, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64036	Thank you very much. Mr Kramaric, in his interesting performance, incorrectly said it was some sort of play where neither Polancec nor "Liburnia" were important, nor was it caused. The truth is the opposite. It is about obvious political corruption with inconspicuous damage to the Republic of Croatia, which was contributed by Mr Damir Polancec and is why his shift is sought, because he has lost every credibility as Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64037	Correction, honourable representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64038	Your Honor, Mr. President, I agree with Mr. Kramaric's inspired exposure. And this debate is manipulation, I'm just correcting Mr. Kramarić's incorrect claim that they are not and do not want to participate. They are unfortunately involved because they were in the former government and in the current government they are in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64039	And the esteemed representative Ivica Pancic, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64040	Yeah. Mr. Kramaric seems to be a little lost, but he doesn't need to be resented because he's part of the ruling coalition, and he doesn't seem to know it yet. But let's leave it. When he says there's no difference between face and face, the fact is it's incorrect because it does. There's a lot of difference. And that is between those who corrupt, who sell Croatian property to similar ones and those who point to these facts and who seek to break down with this practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64041	And what was the correcting of the false assumption?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64042	The face and appearance that there is no difference between HDZ and SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64043	This was an insult. This was a colleague of Pancic's insulting representative Kramaric. You're going to that part. Why is that? You may disagree, but don't insult God. ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Kramarić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64044	Be careful, please, I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64045	Let Mr. Kramaric say first. Here you go, colleague Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64046	So what's worth apologizing for when you said. You're a psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64047	HNS Club, Your Honor. If I'm you, yes, the truth is, is, is. And the correction of the incorrect allegations should have been before, the respected representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I must say, during the presentation of my colleague Kramaric, it seemed to me that the Rules of Procedure had died and lived a political interest in the Parliament. Secondly, it is an incorrect quote from counterpart Kramaric that an attempt to discuss 7 hundred million kunas is an attempt to polarise Croatian society. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in The constitution that says the president and members of the government together correspond to the Croatian Parliament, and members personally for the decisions in which they participated. This is really just about determining potential responsibility. No division of Croatia on two sides. Such an assessment is only of his own political interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64049	It's a grade correction. That, we have a grade correction, but no, at school in homework. But we don't have any business. And the Rules of Procedure didn't die. No, it's not. The Rules of Procedure are very much alive and lively, and what the subject is about is that we always have great controversy about it. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64050	Thank you, Mr. President. We at the HNS club are going to vote for mistrust, Mr. Polancec. However, the question arises and we ask the promoters why they did not seek mistrust with the entire government, because we claim that Mr Polancec did not do this on his own and that without the government's support, he could not have done something like this himself. Mr. Lonchar, I'd like to ask you to allow me to continue. Based on this finding, when we were at the same time bringing a list of companies of particular national interest, I asked the applicants who on behalf of the Government proposed a list of companies of special state interest, which included 210 companies that may be appointed to the supervisory board of one of the state officials. There was no "Liburnia" on that list. I asked why she wasn't there if there were some kind of veterinary cells and I don't know what not, worth 10 grand kuna. I didn't get the answer. That's the same question I asked the prime minister in the current class. It is then answered that we all participated in that list and that the list was adopted. I expressed my suspicion that "Liburnia" was deliberately abandoned and after everything that happened afterwards, it could be concluded that "Liburnia" was really left out on purpose. And why it's left out, then I've put in doubt that it's convenient that someone, someone, we don't know who, because we don't know the ownership structure of any holding company of what they're already called, we don't know the structure of the owner, and we don't know who they've been favored, but someone wanted to take a billion and 200 million dollars of budget money and to rob Croatian citizens again, because they were already robbed once when the state took it all and turned it into state so that they would rob them again now to pay the same thing again. In this whole story, despite the fact that 210 companies did not enter "Liburnia", I want Mr. Leka as chairman of the Committee on the Decision of Conflict of Interests to report to Mr. Zdenko Micic, who, according to the Court Register of Trade Companies in the Republic of Croatia since December 2003, has been appointed president of the Supervisory Board of Liburnia. That means, and I'd like to say that with all the appointments, I'd like to ask him to check and see if he's been receiving compensation while he's doing it and doing it, because that's what it says, it doesn't say he's not doing it. At the time, the state didn't matter how much and how it was managed by "Liburnia", and now it matters to her, since 2003, and since December he's been there and we haven't put that company on the list, and that's what makes me think that all this was going on purpose. And that's why, even though we know how it all went, it means since the law was passed, that robbery that took place and that bagging that happened where they were buying from the victims of the Homeland War and the stock, we were already talking about it, and the same time the last government was supposed to stop it, and it was expected of the last government to do it. Gentlemen, you made the robbery possible. They didn't stop her. And to be honest with you, this story of yours about who's going to make the past better, it's not at all interested. I'm interested in making a better future. And therefore this whole story of who made more, who made less will cost Croatian citizens a billion and 200 million kuna, because regardless of how it ended, the Republic of Croatia is in court and will very likely lose that court. Then who's going to be guilty not just politically? Then who's going to answer materially? Not only materially, but also criminally. Probably no one. And the citizens will be robbed again. And so I ask the question why the entire government was not asked, because two or three days ago we were talking about a strategy to fight corruption and, among other things, the first and basic thing that was to be passed, it's a new law on privatisation. We've committed, the Parliament has committed to the government, not the government first, but first the Parliament has obliged us to pass the new Privatisation Act ourselves, and then we've made a new conclusion, so we've again committed the government to come with a new proposal within days, and I don't know how many days, and the government hasn't come. And that's why all this Mr. Polancec isn't the exception of the whole story, he's part of this government that doesn't carry out the obligations of this Parliament. And that's what we brought back from before, here's a week ago we brought in the Anti-Corruption Strategy, and that's when I said I don't believe in that strategy. When the HSP came with a proposal to amend the Law on Conversion and Privatisation and that the property illegally acquired was kidnapped, we did not adopt it. I speak in the language of the people, kidnapping those who robbed her, means return to the citizens of Croatia. Here's what happens if the formulation doesn't suit you. I don't care about the wording, it's important to me that the citizens will pay for something again, and the question is who will answer for it. No one. Because that's what happened now. There's a story, Mr. Ostovic would end up, or what's called Ostovic, would end up in prison. So what? Well, then what if he ended up in jail? Well, if he's guilty, then why don't you go to jail. We're asking a question someone didn't do something and now he'd be convicted. Well, of course he has to be convicted. Well, then we'd be a legal state if that were the case. And now we've defended one man, and that's why we didn't undo something to these people, but we've allowed them to destroy all that stuff there. Gentlemen, I don't know why, I don't know why we're really fighting for a better past. We are in charge of fighting for a better future in this term. The foundations were made the way they were made. I said some words here that day when I asked the Prime Minister a question, but on such grounds, if we don't want to clear it up, we won't even be able to build a better future. And I pray and ask all of us to finally start applying what's been working in the world for a long time, and that's a tax card. To finally determine the D-day from which we will begin to track the property not only of us government officials but of all of us in the Republic of Croatia. And someone can't buy a Ferrari if they don't pay a tax for some kind of money. He can't. And we, and at the car fair, at the sports boat fair or what's called yachts everywhere, watch as our officials and those who are on the sidelines of the law, I'd say they're buying a fabulous property without anyone checking out how they got to the capital. You in Germany, you in America, you have every right to make as much money as you can, but the moment you go to spend that money, they ask you if you paid taxes on that money. Nobody's asking us anything. And that's why I don't believe in good intentions in the fight against corruption, and that's why I believe that all that because such a proposal, there is no strategy to fight corruption, I don't believe in the government's good intentions. And Mr. Polancec is part of the government, and therefore I resent the promoters for not asking for a vote of no confidence to the entire government. I hope that in the course of the debate he will complete his proposal, since Mr Bebic reminded me that this would be done during the debate, so he would suggest that his proposal be complemented not only for Vice-President Polancec but for the entire government. Because I repeat, this part of "Liburnia" Mr. Polancec couldn't have done it alone. He had to have the government's blessing and he had it safe and therefore he should complete the mistrust of the entire government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64051	Thank you. Yeah, you could just re-propose one, like this, could be complemented but failed. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64052	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, I am correcting the inaccuracies of counterpart Kapraljevic where he claimed that he did not have to go to any deal but to wait for the end of the court proceedings that were initiated. Since the Croatian Privatisation Fund did not take the lead with Mr Linic any settlements and as he suspended all contractual needs that were, he lost two... Slow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He had to run a series of more court proceedings. PIFs had to pay extra cca 1.7 million kuna for the cost of the procedure, his jury account was blocked for several months. He had to settle the costs of representation in the state's attorney's office from up to 2004 to 3.7 million kuna and paid cca 2.5 million kuna of legal services, etc. And for all these reasons, it had to be done in such a settlement to prevent further costs and further destruction of the Croatian Privatisation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64053	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64054	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, under the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 209 to 214. I really don't know who Mr. Djakic was correcting, that's not what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64055	You can't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure... 209 to 214. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64056	209.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64057	209th is not, colleagues please. Let's figure out what Article 209 says once. A representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President shall give his word as soon as he has asked. The speech of that representative cannot last longer than one minute, and the representative must immediately state the article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is referring. Therefore, an article of the Rules of Procedure on which the injury is addressed should be provided. No, that's not it. It is necessary to specify which article of the Rules of Procedure the injury is referred to. This is just a guideline of the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure. Who may be called upon, to whom the word should be given immediately, and to which an article of the Rules of Procedure is claimed to have been injured. Not this one, an article of the Rules of Procedure should be mentioned whose injury is being spoken of. Let's understand that one time. Dear representative Mato Churchvenac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64058	Your Honor, Mr. President. Representative Kapraljevic said this struggle for the past and that it is certainly that the struggle for clearing up with the past, dealing with the past, etc. I don't think that's right after all. We're actually here to talk about what's going on with privatisation. We're talking about how it doesn't go on in those currents that it's been going on in many concrete solutions. We also have privatisation ahead of us in a large part of the metal sector. Privatisation needs to be done and some important issues of the future can be addressed, which is what we are talking about. Market leaders in the region and other things. So, Mr. Kapraljevic, what is now being prepared and what fine conversion mechanism with Croatia's insurance? And that's what we're talking about today. Therefore, this debate on privatisation is not a matter of the past because in Croatia there is much more to privatise and much can or can be broken, but it can be improved that's why I'm talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64059	I followed closely, but I didn't hear that MP Kapraljevic said he was fighting for a better past, and you said. ... Representative Antun Kapraljevic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64060	Thank you, Mr. President. I specifically said yes, 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64061	The 214th paragraph, you said. Who did you tell? When? That's what you said to yourself, I guess. You said 209 to 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64062	No, I just said 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64063	204?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64064	Article 214(4)
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64065	Article 214(4) Yeah, that's what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64066	Is that okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64067	What does it say? What does Article 214(4) say? One, two, three, four, to give the MP a warning if he reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a correction of an incorrect statement, and he starts talking about another subject he was told about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64068	Alinea doesn't count.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64069	Alinea doesn't count, and item 4 doesn't count. There's an item, only item 1. New Edition... Here you go, colleague Kapraljevic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64070	May I or may I not?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64071	No, come on. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64072	I didn't say this was a struggle to clear up with the past, but I said that the debate is that this is a fight for a better past, and I'm interested in fighting for a better future. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64073	It's a modified way of thinking, and yet you're hurting, so stick to it. ... If he's wrong, there's no warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When they're conscious, they're intentional. How would you say colleague Anticevic with a direct imagination? With a direct imagination of error then it deserves a sanction, right? With direct imagination? Oh, no, direct yes. [[Intruder: Direct.]] But it's not going away. HDZ representative club, respected deputy president Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64074	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The damage was done, who produced it? So it is not slow and no one here has disputed that the damage exists and is created by this whole process of funds, around these private funds, but this item of the agenda was launched for political reasons and that irony was the main exhibitor on behalf of the promoter was Mr. Slavko Linic, Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund at the time when these damages grew, when they were produced and when they grew. In 2000, the government and the President of the Fund, Mr. Linic, stopped serving and implemented contracts or contracts that could dispute as Mr. Kovacevic stated in his intervention. We do not want to say here that decisions are related to privatisation, and this possibility that worthless shares are replaced by quality shares and we do not intend to defend the whole process in general because there were obviously a lot of mistakes, failures and we have admitted our failures and mistakes, for which we have paid the right price, even if these contracts may have been illegal as Mr Kovacevic claimed. If they were illegal, why didn't they argue and cancel? Why did they persist in disobeying the treaty without being annulled or disproved? As you've heard, we admit some of our major or minor mistakes, but we haven't heard from you yet, and you'll have to get used to being as sinful as we are, and you've been sinful because now I'd have to mention some cases, but I won't. You all know them very well where you weren't real and where you worked against the law. The campaign to attack the government and HDZ and the prime minister began on 8 March, on International Women's Day. Your president and your deputy president have begun the attack and qualifications and heavy charges against the Croatian Democratic Community of the Prime Minister Sanader and the government for favouring corruption and supporting corruption. That's when it was given the sign and the start of the campaign. Look, of course, we're not going to defend what's wrong, but by refusing in 2000 to serve and implement existing contracts that you haven't disputed and you've annulled the main cause and producer of all these failures, all of these debts and all of these debt increases to these funds because you stubbornly insisted not to implement existing contracts. So even when you were warned in 2002 at the level of the claim of a billion and 100 million kuna by the State's Attorney's office that signaled that the judge was asking for a damage assessment you didn't respond to. You insisted on not respecting the contracts. The proposal, the fund does not respond to such warnings, convinced it will win disputes and start to win disputes, but later they are lost. This causes further dubiousness and debt but disputes are beginning to lose. This government, as Mrs. Opacic said, knows and withdraws the wrong decision but yours doesn't. We were criticised by Mrs. Opacic that this government is known for withdrawing its decisions. This government has shown that it can withdraw some of its wrong decisions. We've never seen that one of you since you're innocent. Ignoring multiple warnings from the president of the Vojkovic Fund for possible dispute losses, ignoring the trust's legal sector's warning to the chairman of the Linic Management Board, they are also being ignored. Ignoring the state's attorney's warning regarding the request I have already mentioned regarding the judge's announcement that he is seeking a verdict of damage and another warning that the stock fund's obligations will remain even if the contracts could be annulled. And there is such a warning. What does that mean? Perseverance and stubbornly reject all warnings that debts will grow in rejection, debt service in 2000. And it goes from dubiosis to dubiosis, from the problem to the problem and the intention cumulatively presents it as much as we've heard here it stands out. What does Vice President Polancec do? He's in this state of affairs trying to make things less harmful. The second question is whether it was successful, whether it was well assessed or not, but he wanted it to be a shame because we heard that the courts judged a hundred thousand penals every day in default. Since the fund didn't have enough shares, the fund couldn't pay off, and it threatened to increase debts if it counts every day 100 thousand kunas we can think of what the debts would eventually be. It wasn't worth anything, it continued to persist in what I said. So that's because of everything that's been done before and it's possible that it's illegal, only you haven't found it illegal. It's the mother and producer of everything that happened later. And if Mr Linic here accuses Vice President Polancec of premeditation and possibly material benefit from this premeditation why refusing to execute a contract that refuses to do all the next damage does not call possible intentional guessing of the PIFs for the same reasons. Why would that be impossible? The decision of 2000 should be put on the table here, and this is not the Government and Vice President Polancec, but the government in which Mr. Linic is vice president and president of the Privatisation Fund, the producer of all this because of his stubborn ignoring of the contract, warnings from various institutions, which unfortunately and rightly envisioned what happened. Now, what? Can we continue the discussion in the same style and talk about whether it's an older chicken or an egg? Whoever caused it, whose non-compliance with the contract or the cancellation of the contract may have been the cause of all that was going on. It's like I said at first that I don't go into details and these references to certain quotes here that were both evidence and data. This is politics and the implementation of the announced March 8th or March of this year of attacks on the government, attacks on the government's president, attacks on HDZ, charges of favoring corruption and other acts arising from corruption. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community will reject this proposal, so it will not accept it and the rest of you will be looking for other leads so that you may be able to restart something that could potentially lead to some new debates, new polemics. We go on to realize that we have made mistakes but are also determined to correct them and we will not be able to meet them, we will continue to be blameless but I also advise all those who finally put the eagle of infallibility in the penitentiary where they belong and become normal, wrong, or sinful people as we all unfortunately are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64075	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64076	Well, my colleague Luka Bebić, speaking to party members, said the following, quote: "You have made mistakes too, and you must get used to making mistakes and that you have sinned." That's not true. History teaches us that the party can't make a mistake, because if the party were to make a mistake what would happen to the revolution. History also teaches us fellow Baby that even party leaders can't make a mistake, this also teaches us that history has never been wronged by the great leader of the world's proletariat comrade... And also the leader of our party has never been wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Mr. Slavko Linic is a fan of the party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64077	... One sentiment: "The experience teaches us that experience teaches us nothing." Second correction by the respected representative, Josip Leko. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64078	Thank you very much. I wish it were true: We were wrong, we admitted mistakes, and we changed our behavior. This example of the settlement is a school example of the continuation of privatisation in Croatian and how hollow shares change for the high-quality shares of the "Liburnia" Riviera of the hotel So the quote is that there is no change in behavior, no change in behavior. [[Intruder: Allegedly.]] There's been some changes in confession. As for the argument of your colleague, Bebić, listen to what your colleague Loncar told you, you know better than he does, so correct him. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64079	Peace, please! Order! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64080	Your colleague Lonchar made a mistake. I'll prove it to you. I'll prove it to you. ... I will, I will. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll prove it to you. She made a mistake on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64081	Peace, please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64082	The evidence is, evidence of this claim is that in the government's allegations, in point 5, it says, that, the regulation it calls upon has obliged the government to change shares and continue to change the shares of hollows for quality remains in the behaviour of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64083	That's not what he's talking about. That's not what Mr. Baby was talking about in the rule book at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64084	Yes, it is. You're tired, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64085	The Honorable Representative... Please don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zdenko Antešić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64086	Dear Vice-President of the House Mr. Bebic and the president of the HDZ Club have incorrectly said that HDZ will not defend what is wrong. It is true that it has been hard work all day defending Mr. Polancec, who illegally signed the deal with "ASN Holding" and regarding the Opatija hotels, which the prime minister himself pulled from the public under public pressure as illegal and was still seeking conjecture for the guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64087	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64088	Defending an indefensible colleague, Luka Bebic, says the deal was concluded for the purpose of reducing the damage. That is quite incorrect because if that were true then the government of Prime Minister Sanader would not cancel that settlement that is so useful. She gave up on her. So why would the government keep the damage from getting smaller? By what logic? That quote is completely inaccurate. The deal was not concluded for the purpose of reducing the damage but for the purpose of benefiting HDZ because of this same "Dom Holding" being bribed for his campaign. And that's all the truth about it. Simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64089	Dear representative, agent Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64090	Yeah. It is incorrect that counterpart Luka Bebic said that what was before that was exactly the mother of what happened later. And that's how it justifies all of this. That's incorrect because we are here talking about the conclusion of a settlement and responsibility for it as a single pest agreement that has been concluded without a legal standoff and without legal obligation to notify the State's Attorney's office that must previously give consent to this. And speaking of sins, yes, it is true that we are all sinful, but there is a fellow Baby who is easy sins and mortal sins.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64091	My sin, my great sin. My "culpa." Honorable representative Dragica Zgrebec, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64092	According to counterpart Bebic, the government had to insist on implementing the contract but the responsible government could not do so when it received the State Audit report which found that after all the swaps and return of the stock that the funds had over 109 million marks or 14.2% of the total return portfolio, more than it belonged to. That she found that, for example, there was the "Home Fund" and was selling some of the shares that he gave back to the fund because they stayed in his portfolio, and the privatisation fund itself was manifested in this finding in a way that he said they would accept the state audit findings. It states that in the arbitration-party proceedings that have been initiated, it will take place with the argument contained in part and in the evaluations in the State Audit Office's report on the revision of the coupon privatisation. The responsible government couldn't carry out such contracts at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64093	Thank you. Proposer, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64094	On behalf of the promoter, I would like to make it very clear to Mr Kapraljevic that we agree with his assessment that the government is behind all of Mr Polancec's actions. She knew the government, and she confirmed it with a decision. But that same government has annulled the deal. What a shame we'll know about it. Cancelled the settlement, but what we're trying to do as promoters is believable, try to win and confirm in this hall is Mr. Polancec's mistake. His insistence further, he today found it necessary to speculate, that it was a good deal and that it was better than court proceedings. The government said, "No. The government has retired. It's a step. And then to propose basically and to pass on responsibility to the government that has seen its mistakes, which has taken a step back and what we have observed here, anyone can make a mistake. How much is that gonna cost? That's what we'll talk about. But now it's very difficult to simply transfer this responsibility to the government that has taken a step back. Today Mr. Polancec still thinks she should have done it. And that's just proof that we should simply insist on the responsibilities of a man who, even after the government's decision and after very clear messages from the government that mistakes have been made, estimates that it was a top quality job. That's why it was difficult for us to suggest the responsibility of the government. Because the moment we know the blocked shares, when we know the new disputes, when we know the results of the new disputes, then we can also talk about the government's mistakes, the government's responsibilities for the new damage done. It's a matter of cancelling the contract. It's hard to accept that the question of termination of the contract was not moving. As you have negotiated with funds and former funds or people in the fund and the Supervisory Board has negotiated. But we didn't execute the contract. We have negotiated and assessed that the first exchange of shares is sufficient, that they have already achieved benefits and that we can simply leave illegality, leave it, but that we cannot accept the second exchange of shares. We've been negotiating. But we didn't execute. That was the reason the funds started the disputes and the disputes started. And that's how you start the disputes. Therefore, we have shown the will to try to make very clear mistakes of people by 2000 less harmful to the Republic of Croatia as possible. Let go of the first exchange of shares, although it is illegal after the audit, incorrect. Only because she was signed by responsible people. And we had negotiations, let's not insist on the other one. But haughtiness, irresponsibility, the grumbling of people, convinced that they would influence the judiciary, convinced, and they did. Because the judiciary was divided into making a statement on the same legal basis. They've been running disputes. Therefore, disputes are in motion, disputes are in motion. And now on behalf of the promoter, I'm asking, two and a half years of the government of Ivo Sanader and HDZ, two and a half years. Mr Hebrang's first vice president is in charge of negotiations, he's in charge of negotiations. In late 2004, two new arbitration disputes were lost. In the meantime. Meanwhile, in 2004, a debate on compensation for damages began, meaning not at the time of 2003, in 2004. But there's no deal. There isn't. Because it is obvious that it is very difficult to bargain with people who seek bread above the cake, who seek immoral amounts, who seek enormous amounts, who are not under the law. And Mr. Hebrang as vice president stops the settlement process in 2004 and says, "We'll be tried." There's a blockage coming up. Not in 2003. No one dared to block in 2003 because they were criminal charges, because they were constantly looking after litigation. In 2004 and 2005, the judgments followed. And blockades and blockades. But it didn't happen. The settlements were made in 20005 and the government annulled them again and annulled them again. We're in 2006 today. Two and a half years, no deal. Why don't you answer me why there's no deal if you think it's better than running a lawsuit? Why isn't there a deal? Why do two settlements fail? One by the evaluation of the Board of Directors of the Fund and the former vice president, and one by government decision. There's no deal. Is that what gets into our heads so these people can't make a deal? That's what we're talking about. It's impossible to make a deal. They're crying too much, they're asking for billions. Not millions, they're asking for billions. And the court ruled 500 million. And the State's Attorney's office says they won't get another 500 million. A firm position of the State's Attorney's Office. That's what we're talking about. That's why we blame Mr. Polancec, because he said we should settle, he said. The government said no. And he's given 680 million more than a court ruling. It's bad business. And he signed an agreement, just like he did in '99. signed by the Vice-President of the Fund. He signed them. And the arbitration said, no decisions, no quality contracts, no legal basis, but he signed it, pay it, pay it. So, what are we talking about? You're accusing the former coalition government that conducted court proceedings, and here today it's two-and-a-half years of government, two-and-a-half years of government no deal. There's no deal. It won't be till the end of the year. There's been no deal for three years. What does that mean? There's a court order to be carried out. If judgments are to be carried out, it is evident to all of us that these people cannot be guessed and that it is harmful to speculate on the Croatian state, that it is dangerous, that they seek too much. And that must be so clear to all of us. Therefore, it is difficult for Mr Bebić to think of the Croatian Democratic Community as a club that we are responsible because we have not speculated, and in two and a half years of your government's mandate, HDZ means most in the government, or in the elections, there is simply no such deal. And in the meantime, disputes have been lost and all you're saying are blocked accounts, not 2003. Then the dispute ratio was 3:1. So what I want to point out very clearly is that I do not want to blame the government of Ivo Sanader and our government at all, which is not the conclusion of the settlements. However, Eve Sanader's decision to cut the deal and not make a deal with these people is something to be commended for. You should be commended. And the question is how much, I say, Polancec was responsible for the speculation. Therefore, as you can see, it will be 8 years since the disputed share swap agreements. No one's gonna end these disputes that easily. It's important to run disputes in quality. We ran them. We lost 500 million. We got something. But now the question is how much after this, the disputed settlements will be lost because it's been settled to a billion 200 million in shares of "Liburnia" and privatised "Liburnia" in addition to the Privatisation Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64095	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64096	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. A esteemed colleague, Linic, as the Fund's vice president, said it is desirable and good that the contracts were not executed. He said they did not carry out contracts and that it was useful at the time for Croatia and taxpayers. Well, that government of theirs is known for not fulfilling the contract, not only in this case, but in the case of cops, with teachers. You know what, only the Home Office lost about a billion kuna in court proceedings because they didn't execute contracts and we paid it, not us, taxpayers, not to talk about justice, protest, etc. More than 2 billion kunas were excellent executive judgments after their non-fulfilment of the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64097	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Vice-President of the House, Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64098	Oh, here's Mr. Linic making us think we're being foolish, because he claims why you're negotiating the debt, why you didn't wait for the verdict and he claims that that relationship was 3:1 as if the game were playing, and when it's 3:1. It's playing up to 3:3 as it is... So I'm accusing your government and you personally of failing to cancel your shares in 2000, but you didn't respect them. [[You don't understand.]] So either you had to undo them if they were illegal, and then you wouldn't have done anything to respect this, and neither would there be this kind of debt that would have been made, but you were persistent and stubborn, persistently refusing to admit it, creating a basis for all this to be done later and eventually to get the government into a situation where you had to pay the penalty of 100,000 every day and thus increase the debts. Don't make us, don't bring us back. We're mentioning the year 2000 and your decision that wasn't legal, but you didn't... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64099	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm only trying to get back to you when we're really talking about metrics and when we're dealing with facts. So let me say that here, several times, there's been a very precise misrepresentation, but on several occasions. So I'm going to try to say what I believe to be false in Mr. Linic's stand-up in this last one that ended a few moments ago. So I'm called out to you that I didn't consult with the State's Attorney's Office and that I didn't respect the state's attorney's opinion. So here on this table I'm in the documentation that tracks this whole problem I have a series of state's attorney's office's obviouss. I'll try to remind us all just of some. Therefore, after the Governing Board of the Privatisation Fund proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to settle disputes with the privatisation investment funds, i.e. their legal sequences peacefully, it was requested that the State Attorney's Office be made aware of this. There is no doubt that we have an indication of the State's Attorney's Office, which gives support to such a way of resolving disputes. That's one thing. Secondly, after being proposed by the College of the Privatisation Fund to the Management Board in September 2004, a proposal for a settlement agreement between the HFP of the House of Holding and the SN Holding requested the opinion of the State Attorney's Office. This is what the State's Attorney's Office has also shown when supporting this agreement, I quote: "In the end, we draw attention to the fact that the proceedings at the Commercial Court in Zagreb are under way in order to annul the words which are the basis of which the claims of the holding are still pending, and that the assessment is that it is obvious that these proceedings will not succeed." This is therefore an indication of the State's Attorney's Office on the September 2004 proposal for an agreement. When the agreement was redefined and proposed to the board of directors, in fact the Government of the Republic of Croatia was partially amended in May again, Mr Linic asked the State's Attorney's office to give an opinion, so I will only quote part of that opinion here. As you know and continue to be at the Commercial Court of Zagreb in the course of proceedings for the annulment of the legal proceedings in connection with the arbitration proceedings conducted originally at the permanent elected court at the HGK, it is really impossible to predict with certainty the outcome of all these proceedings but it would be possible to maintain the words of the permanent electoral court on the basis of the proceedings so far. On 20 April 2005, the State Attorney's Office, which I also consulted during this process, writes to the Privatisation Fund and informs the Croatian Privatisation Fund that in the dispute between the PIFs against the Republic of Croatia, the General Court in Zagreb has ordered the implementation of financial skills and that they deliver the above notice to the HFP for the overall examination of the problems of the former PIFs and the possible resolution of all procedures peacefully. So I really don't know if it's possible to continue to claim that we haven't consulted with the State's Attorney's Office. We consulted, and I quoted some of their opinions to you, and there are others. Several times today you made a claim that I signed that agreement. I didn't want to do it so far, and your colleague, the esteemed parliamentary representative, has also claimed it. I didn't want to react to this until now, but I didn't sign this agreement, and you know it or you haven't prepared yourself well for this debate or it's not your goal to discuss facts and metrics, and I don't want to be politicized. I never signed that agreement, Mr. Linic and you know it well, I didn't sign it. And in the end, several times today you said here in this House of Commons that the State's Attorney's Office unequivocally gave an indication of the so-called. Slow suit in May, that the Republic of Croatia will receive it. I again mention what I said in my opening address, that's the opinion of the State's Attorney's office I and my colleagues at the Privatisation Fund don't have. In fact, we have a statement from the State's Attorney's Office that the judge of the municipal court has asked for an art at the height of the damage I once again point out to me, I'm not a lawyer, but we lawyers interpret and lawyers, so it means it's no longer a dispute whether the damage is present or not, it's a questionable height. And that, Mr. Linic, are the facts that definitely disprove your claims. They're killing your claims, and we're not really standing right or standing right in court. You also note that I did not consult and did not respect the opinion of the State Audit Office. That really doesn't stand. You can tell me anything, but it doesn't stand. The opinion of the State Audit Office was the basis for making our views and the basis of our lawsuits for repealing the acquis, but we still lost both the jurisprudence and the two lawsuits in the trade court. Perhaps you, Mr. Linic, can say because the judiciary is corrupt, but I don't want to say it. So, you're that freedom, maybe it's wrong, maybe it's from a political point of view an expression of my inexperience, but I'm that freedom, Mr. Linic, to be above the courts in this country and I don't want to take that freedom. I don't want to interpret it that way. I believe in the judiciary and the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64101	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64102	... You, Mr. Polancec, have determined that you have asked the state's attorney and are talking about his opinion. [[Specially enabled.]] When the chief state attorney on a direct newspaper inquiry on 16.8.2005 said that in the process of drawing up documentation for the agreement, he did not obtain the documentation or give an indication. So if you respect the judiciary, then do not hide and abuse and distort the facts by transferring responsibility even to the judicial authority, or to the judiciary. And you were obliged to ask for that opinion, and you didn't get your opinion because you didn't ask for it. That's what the attorney general is talking about. And now you're showing the truth here, publicly, that you had that opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64103	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64104	Mr. President. In the course of the debate, in fact, everything has been said and everything is clear. And that everything was clear in this case and our government is reflected in her move, which was under public pressure after the outbreak of the "Liburni" affair at the phone session, withdrew the settlement decision and resolved by the president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And that's why I don't think there's any need to discuss it anymore, and I'm pulling mine, giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64105	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64106	So says Mrs. Honorable colleague that from the debate so far, it's clear. It is clear that both the former government and this government have not acted as they should have acted legally, it deals with the matter of settlement. Yeah, just HSP. It deals with the issue of a settlement rather than acting on the State Audit report which clearly established that the swap agreements were illegal. Therefore, both of you should have gone not into these disputes and defended it but instead of advertising a zero share swap agreement. As in all other cases, advertising should go to nothing. And then there's no harm done. So this is today the beating of empty straw, the beating of empty straw because we're not solving the cause, and it's the cause of illegality and we can't admit it. And you admit illegality and then appeal to the court's decisions. Do it right. You're doing the right thing, and that's going to be advertising for nothing. That's how we solve the problem, not by beating up empty straw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64107	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64108	Mr. Kovacevic. If you don't understand, that's your problem. For me and probably a large number of citizens who have been damaged through coupon privatisation, it's clear everything. And since this procedure is run by the State's Attorney's Office, then if we're beating up empty straw, please ask them to stop beating up empty straw. You are a lawyer, and you should, and you should, and you should, and you should know what actions are conducted before the courts. And it's not just that simple to cancel the contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64109	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64110	Thank you, Mr. President. It's all clear. In fact, nationalised policy of the 1990s changed the ship's name "Balkania". And at the same time, in the same 1990s, the chosen ones bought creams in coupon privatisation. But here comes Liburnia. "Liburnia" which is a school example of "Balkania". True, under the command of Ivo Sanader, but that does not diminish the responsibility of the commander of Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64111	Honorable representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64112	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say that tonight I am once again sad as usual and every time we discussed privatisation in this assembly in a Croatian way, because tonight it was confirmed that in the early 1990s under the auspices of the inaugural robbery. That this robbery continues, that on the Liburnia case, it's confirmed that it's just like that. And tonight literally everything's said, it's said before. And I'm giving up further discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64113	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64114	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that this afternoon a lot has been said and from all the opportunities we have heard, especially from the promoter, I think it is clear to all of us and that there is no longer any doubt that the government's decision is that the majority package of shares of the abbey "Liburnia Riviera" hotels is literally overnight handover to the SN and the Dom holding-ins to settle the disputed, obvious sovereign debt from the coupon privatisation process despite the warnings and the State's Attorney's office, despite the findings and the State's audit was made by that decision, i.e. the settlement damage to the Republic of Croatia. And what my colleague Perusko said, this was obviously supposed to be another case of privatisation in the Croatian way from the 1990s. And that's what actually grieves. All this is clear, but what is not clear is that Prime Minister Sanader, and here is Mr Polancec before, and we hear today in his performance persistently until the last agreement defended him and tried to portray him as something good and useful for the Republic of Croatia, and then it is not clear why if that agreement was so good for which he was withdrawn. Any further comment is excessive.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64115	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64116	Thank you, Mr. President. Since most things are said only to show me the hope that such harmful actions for Croatian national interests will no longer occur, although for this HDZ government, man cannot put his hand in the fire that it will be so, so we give up further debate, I leave it for another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64117	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64118	Thank you, Mr. President. I won't withdraw my debate because I think the contents of the Interpellation were modelly brilliantly made, as is brilliant and the answer to that Interpellation. So we're working, it's a classic conflict of two explanatory paradigms, two philosophys of conflict management. On the one hand, we have to say the arbitration, judicial, combat approach advocated by colleague Slavko Linic, who personally experienced his reckoning with Ostoj and I deeply respected it, I had sympathy, and even today I have sympathy for this approach and the other is a sub-level, flat-rate, or bargain-compromising approach of my colleague Polancec, who is also absolutely legitimate. What's sad is that while we're here discussing and while there's an interparty conflict latent or manifesto, no one notices that we'd have to team up because our opponents are together. In this particular case, it is a classic, school textbook example of the capture of the Croatian state by former PIFs, later holding and in the perspective of two new pension and defence funds. What exactly is this about? If you listened carefully to a colleague of Damir Cain without any correction of the wrong allegations he made very precise amounts that Darko Ostoja gave to individual parties. I'll do it again. HDZ 500 thousand kuna, HSLS 100 thousand kuna, HSS 150 thousand, IDS 100 thousand and HSP 100 thousand, total 950 thousand kuna. What is frustrating is the cheapness of the Croatian political elite. It's one change of amount attributed to the damage that Mr. Polancec has done in this business. At the same time, these same PIFs, the holders managed to bribe both trade courts and permanent arbitration in this submission, and I regret my colleague Linic that he did not. Secure peace, please. You don't have any names listed. There were three arbitration councils and six jurisprudences. As far as I've learned, Sinisa Petrovic, an honorable man has always had separate opinions in favour of the Croatian state against this robbery. Therefore, if we want to conclude something clever from this, since your proposal for the Interpellation is doomed to vote, it would be good to make some kind of joint effort here to try to see how we get out of this situation. You, your colleague Linic, for the sake of ensuring some continuity, and I consider you one of the most qualified people in the former government, respected the agreement to transfer shares even though you could have done it in two ways, to initiate the procedure for the annulment of the contract yourself, or which would have been much better if the State's Attorney General had done so on official duty. Today it's hard to do, and then there's a possibility that I was talking about earlier, and that's the possibility of adopting a British version... Agency, Agency for the Reimbursement of illegal and unlawful property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if you gentlemen and we want to say something together, we must return to the roots, the findings of the revision that has found that one, one of the fundamental six methods of robbing the Croatian economy, was made in the coupon privatisation. The adoption of such a law which should be a consensual law, not to appear here as a proposal or HSP or a proposal I do not know Kramarić or any SDP, to create one legal person that we can deal with something that we cannot handle. On the side of these people there are fantastic and well-paid lawyers, on their side there are media because they are advertisers in state media, in private media. On our side are the poor, state officials who work and at the Privatisation Fund as lawyers who have 8,000 cases, you call it one young man and it's very wrong for me that you did which was absolutely brought here into one position that was completely out of context. If you wanted to be honest to the end, you wouldn't even be asking for Polancec's resignation. Eve Sanader because that responsibility of the government would be the real responsibility and address. All in all, to conclude. What makes me terribly sad is this one prominence for which a Croatian political elite can be bought, they know very well, and I will end up quoting something that scared her for a lot of reasons, Mr Polancec. He said that on several occasions there, it is a solution to the performance that was adopted on January 12, 2005, where the pens and the system of classical rackets that do not break fingers like other debt seekers, but 100 thousand kunas a day, but very well knowing the situation that the Croatian Privatisation Fund in its portfolio does not have enough shares to pay off all obligations, so this other enemy team, I speak hostilely, she knows very precisely, she knew and had a psycho robot Mr. Polancec. She knew that he wasn't Linic, that he wouldn't fight, and in that sense I think that really this kind of debate is interesting perhaps for some party outwitting, I'm just glad that these two very good texts are a good template that I will theoretically process in my book "Wolve Loneliness". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64119	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrades and colleagues, Mr. Minister with Associates! Now, I believe that in the debate so far, everything that was needed to be heard has been said. I only propose that the Liburnia programme be an example of some kind of seminar work in the government's national anti-corruption programme. I would not only like and appeal for the same to happen to the Arab Empire. In that hope, I give up further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64121	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64122	Thank you very much. Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll say one piece of information we haven't heard in this debate yet. According to the Varazdin Stock Exchange, the price of the Liburni Hotel Riviera in 2004 increased most with the shares of Viaduct, or as much as 406,25%. I cannot believe that the government and Mr Polancec in August 2005 did not know about this information published on 10 January... So seven months ago. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] When the affair broke publically, it gave up the surrender of Lebanon to the House of SN Holding and the president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund was removed... Obviously someone had to be protected so someone else could be Pedro and so the government and Mr. Polancec could swim on. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] I think further comments are unnecessary and excessive, so I would like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64123	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64124	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! I'll stay at the hearing just to say the point that the settlement attempt is less damage to the state does not stand. Why? Because the government itself unilaterally gave up that settlement and thus admitted that she had made a mistake signing that settlement. Therefore, it is doubtless that there is both objective and subjective responsibility in the signatories of the settlement. The responsibility is beyond doubt, that's what we agreed. The only question is how long after it unilaterally gave up the deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64125	Thank you. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64126	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I simply feel a human and professional responsibility to say only a few sentences. They're very much about privatisation issues, as much as what we've talked about so far, especially with what we should possibly do in the next period. Here's what I mean. The share of the relevant industry in Croatia in the social gross product fell to the level at which it is around the equator in some countries. At the same time the trade deficit last year was $9.5 billion and our total... Therefore, in such conditions our balances are tense and unstable. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] We cannot just out of services without any stronger science-based industry achieving Croatia's prosperity. In such conditions, I wonder how, for example, we will privatise shipbuilding when we do not have industrial policy. And what about the metal industry, the wood and someone else when we didn't design a solution that would produce something in the industry. In the former government, we had some sectoral policies and some macro policy. In 2004, at the very beginning of this government's work, I gave well-intentioned advice to some colleagues from this HDZ government and the HDZ people what I think we should continue to support and make sure that we do not, for example, remain without industry, and we are on that path. Or another question, please. For us objectively, the European Union is a taboo topic in Croatia. We do not know in Croatia today what we are giving to this Union or what we are getting from it, what we are going to do and how we will privatise in relation to that Union, and how we will protect our national interests in all this. Or allow the next question. What could have been done in Croatia for two and a half years and now I doubt it could be more important and it could have developed its own financial development lever so we wouldn't be so dependent on foreign banks. That could have happened. Now it's getting less and less and it's all about privatisation, which is not only the privatisation of banks, but also insurance and everything else. I am currently expressing my claim that Croatia is facing serious development issues and that there is no serious economic or development policy. Europe has plans and programmes until 2013 precise with a budget that has been worked out there. Privatisation in the next period should be put and connected to solving Croatian development problems but this has not been... The intensity in this debate was that it might try to keep an eye on it in the next period. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] The rest is said a lot, questions are asked a lot, answers to a lot of things obviously and we don't have. It would be good if we had more in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64127	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64128	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm listening to this little fatezmogorical debate, almost as if a man doesn't believe what heavy artillery was pulled into the yard and shot from one side to the other. In that war for the light of one's past, the shameful past of another or vice versa, I don't know which way it goes. Proposers say they suspect Mr. Deputy Prime Minister's corrupt action. He misreported, he deceived, gave false information, ignored the results of the audits, the opinion of the State's Attorney's office. The government says it's not true. Everything that's happened, everything that's happened is fine. Mistakes are in the previous government. The previous government actually did some damage. It's a lot like that. But if any of this were true, and something must be true, there might be someone here who has Mr. Bajic's phone to warn him to listen to this discussion. If any of this is true after this debate against someone needs to be filed. Someone did it for the damage. We can't say no one's guilty of any damage. That's the damage that happened when the fight went down. It's not. Someone's responsible for the damage. Either it's one, or it's the other, but somebody did. And what was actually done? The PIFs have been made available in a strange, embarrassing, and thieving manner to a bag of treasure. This treasure belonged not to today's PIF owners but to someone else entirely. They emptied that bag, and now they reach into the other bag with their hand. They got caught, they got caught holding their hand in the other bag. The key word in this entire discussion tonight is corruption. What are we gonna do with her? For 15 years, this corruption has been haunting us practically since the first days of creation, the beginning of Croatia until today. How did we work things out? So we cried out loud:... Strategy, we have our strategy, and now we're going to move on with the strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Great when a strategy is made, however, it would be right now to do something seriously for corruption. One step is really the result of this assembly debate. Someone is responsible for the damage, and that damage should be answered. Let the State's Attorney's office find out who's responsible for the damage, but someone's got to answer. To trust the government to have a truly serious intention to fight corruption, one step should be taken by the entire civilized world. When Al Capone killed half of Chicago in the '20s, no one was able to catch him. When he cheated on his taxes, he went to Alcatraz for 20 years. Our tax collectors are looking at tax cards. It can't happen to you that you get an authorial fee of 200 kuna, without the tax collectors knowing it. They have access to your accounts. I'm sure of it. But no one in this country has ever tried to put one over the other property of a man and his tax card. What my colleague Kapraljevic said were at this car mass fair buying various Ferraris, lamborginias, similar. In Split they bought various beautiful ships with prices so many zeroes have barely a man can write them. People found in newspapers the second day that their companies owed taxes and contributed to this state. Unbelievable! Tax inspection and government are doing nothing about it. No government has done anything about it so far. The government that runs it will be a government that will be able to believe that there is really no corruption in itself and that it really has no intention of burning what to burn while it is in power. In this case, it is a concrete move around Libya. If these issues were settled then at the very least, no question should be asked, what was the motive for making such moves? Is it just the incompetence of the Deputy Prime Minister or any other motive? That would be known if these two cards were compared. "Apropos" of the company we discussed when we discussed the list of these companies of special state interest, I said it was on the list, that only companies that nobody had reached or wanted to steal are on the list. Mr. Glavas was still in HDZ at the time, so he jumped to the correction of the wrong assumption that there was a lot of talk in the Assembly. Turns out they're really on that list of companies that no one has reached and wanted to steal, and these other ones that someone else has to steal are off that list, including Liburnia. When such questions are clearly and truly done, the government will be able to believe that it has no intention of acting corruptly in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64129	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64130	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I can see most of my exposure and it's not exactly the mood to continue this debate. I said most of my exposure downstairs, but I would just like to answer why I think and say why I think the mistrust should be voted on by the entire government regardless of the explanation Mr. Linic told me and where he said the government had withdrawn, that she had taken a step back. The government had an opportunity at the beginning, and I asked three times why there was no response on the list of companies of special state interest. The government then left Liburni out of that list. She didn't return to the Liburni list until today. To this day, she did not show any interest in Liburnia because she did not consider it important to her. Because it matters to her and... /The speaker's off. The list included all companies where the state owned more than 25%. And that was the criterion. And not to say that the government did not think about Liburnia even when Liburni was leaving to the gentlemen who were supposed to get it, at the time she was not thinking about the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is the owner of Lebanon, I don't know now because the exact information from the Croatian Privatisation Fund was never obtained, I don't know exactly, but I mean, 19% then did not ask the permission or decision of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to leave the entire of Liburnia to Mr Eltz and Ostoj. They also didn't think about it, and they appointed the Secretary of State as chairman of the Supervisory Board and consciously put him in conflict of interest. Because if the Secretary of State wanted to save the conflict of interest, then we would have come to Parliament with a proposal to write "Liburnia" on that list and be 211. That is why I believe, and I also said that when I asked the prime minister I believe that the consciously "Liburnia" has been left out to please Mr. Ostoja and Jelac and to allow them the unlawful benefit of a billion and 200 million. Whether it's going to be a billion and 200 million or it's going to be 700 million is totally whatever at this point because in any case it's going to end up being paid by the citizens. And that's why I think that whatever the government pulled back and took a step back, I think the proposer should have asked for a vote of mistrust to the entire government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64131	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64132	Your Honor, it's all clear. Corruption is evident. This government does not intend to implement its anti-corruption programme. Now we're going to vote on this proposal. It will be a test of conscience and honesty where each of us will answer the question in front of the citizens. Each of us will have to face the citizens... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64133	Don't let anyone rule out an agent. Please, peace! Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64134	I thank Representative Djakic. I'm lucky if I wasn't close to the stairs, I'd be worse off. Now we're going to vote on this proposal. It'll be a record of conscience and honesty. Each of us will answer the question before the citizens whether the minister who makes the deal with Dark Ostoj supports it. The point of the settlement is for Darko to have 700 million kuna, the HDZ 500 thousand. That's what HDZ and Ostora call a donation, and citizens are shorter and clearer, a bribe. This government has already lost one minister to corruption. By defending another, they will lose them all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64135	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review, on behalf of the promoter, respected representative Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64136	I thank the MPs for the debate. And as promoters, we estimate that we have provided enough arguments that say that it was not possible to make a deal with people who took advantage of the victims of the Homeland War, with people who had an unscrupulous impact on the people who led the Fund until 2000 and forced them to do things and contracts that damaged the Republic of Croatia. But we also made it clear that the latest reports from the Fund say the police are looking for criminal acts and in the section of coupon privatisation, in the section of the exchange of shares and in the section called the PIF settlement agreement. Therefore, the State Attorney's Office has not completed criminal prosecution proceedings related to the damage done to the Republic of Croatia. And the purpose of this debate is also to send these documents and this debate to the State's Attorney's office so that they can conduct the proceedings. And all in order to stop the people who have taken advantage of themselves in privatisation. I appreciate that from all this argument you will also be able to find the elements of the responsibility of Vice President Polancec, who today believes that the deal with these people is what does not harm the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64137	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We should vote now. Please engage to determine the quorum. The quorum? 84 present representative and representative. The decision requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, a total of 77. Now there's only one specific person. It shall be put to the vote on a proposal for a non-confidential statement to Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. A proposal for mistrust. One who votes in favour of this proposal votes in favour of distrust. He who votes against votes against mistrust. So those who vote against, who vote for mistrust, will vote in favour. Those who vote will vote against. Because it is. So, I am voting on a motion to show no confidence to Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. I, I had a feeling I was turning around, so that's it. The result? For 26, one abstention, 63 against. The majority was not obtained, and I note that the proposal to show no confidence in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Damir Polancec, was rejected. We still have one proposal for a conclusion, we have one proposal for the conclusion of the club of HSP representatives who say so. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to report within 30 days the Croatian Parliament on the course of court proceedings at the Commercial Court in Zagreb for the annulment of the words in connection with arbitration proceedings conducted by the permanent elected court at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report within the same period to the Croatian Parliament on what it has done to resolve the aforementioned judicial proceedings in favour of the Republic of Croatia. The government is obliged to report within 30 days on the ownership structure of SN Holding and Dom Holding, which is covered by an agreement with the Croatian Privatisation Fund since 8 August 2005. The vice-president of your position on the conclusion club proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64139	I don't think there's any need to accept... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-11-0.u64140	Thank you. Let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 28 for, 61 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we will be contacted by this House at 10.30 a.m. President of the European Parliament, and I ask that the representatives and deputies be there until 10 with the tables arranged so that we can be there at 10 to 10 so that, in 10 and 10, the next session will be scheduled after the holidays of work. Session interrupted in 19.40 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, please welcome the President of the European Parliament, Nj. E.g. Joseph Borrell Fontelles with his associates. I also welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Ivo Sanader and the members of the government present. [[Applause.]] Members of the negotiating group and the diplomatic assembly headed by her. [[Applause.]] E.Msgr. Francisco Javier Lozano. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is an extraordinary honor and pleasure to address the President of the European Parliament Mr Boorrell in Croatia, to express his satisfaction that as part of his official visit to the Republic of Croatia, the President of the European Parliament has agreed to address representatives of the Croatian Parliament of the highest legislative and representative body of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] The Republic of Croatia and its entry into full membership of the European Union represent a vital national interest and is one of the main foreign policy objectives of the Republic of Croatia. The European Parliament and the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, as part of the Joint Committee of the European Parliament and the Croatian Parliament, plays a significant and important inevitable role in Croatia's path towards full membership of the European Union. And therefore, for the Republic of Croatia, it is extremely important and important today to visit the President of the European Parliament, Mr Borrell, and I ask that we welcome him once again and invite you to speak to the Croatian Assembly, the Honorable President. Here you go. [[Applause.]]
