ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74857	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 23rd session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you as well as the Prime Minister, Vice President, Vice-President of the Prime Minister. You received the minutes of the 32nd session, any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm confirming that we've accepted the record. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. You are also given the final draft agenda at the session. In the final proposal of the day, I included 14 new points: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, emergency procedure. 2. Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with a Proposal of projections for 2008 and 2009, with proposals for financial plans for 2007 with a proposal for projections for 2008 and 2009: Croatian Waters, Croatian Motorways, Croatian Roads, State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Resolution, Croatian Privatisation Fund, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, National Budget and Ex-Programmary User Financial Plans for 2007 and 2009, with draft Budget for 2008 and 2009 final proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. 3. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation in the Customs 2007 programme, emergency procedure, 4. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation in the Fiscalis programme 2003 to 2007, emergency procedure. 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community incentive measures in the field of employment, emergency procedure, 6. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project of the construction of the II B stage of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, emergency procedure, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian National Bank, Second Reading, P.Z.E., 8. Final proposal of the Leasing Act, second reading, 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts, first reading, P.Z.E., 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Development and Small Economy, P.Z.E., First Reading, 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, first reading, P.Z.E., 12. Proposal for an asylum law, first reading, P.Z.E., 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, first reading, P.Z.E. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 9 to 12 and paragraphs 18 to 21 shall state the laws for which the adoption of an emergency procedure is proposed. These are: Proposals for a law on the validation of the Stockholm Convention on Permanent Organic Contaminants, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Units of Local and Regional Self-Government, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Conservation of the Community and the Republic of Croatia, Proposal for a Law on the approval of the Memorandum between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Memorandum of Understanding in the Customs Programme, Proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of Community in the promotional measures in the field of employment, and the Proposal for a Treaty on the Guarantee of the Republic of Croatia and of the European Banks for the Development of the Construction of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and of Croatia. I note that the laws listed in the final draft agenda under points 9, 11 and 12 bear the label "P.Z.E." the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161; We don't vote on the rules of procedure. And this is this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Stockholm Convention, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming. Do any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the other proposed laws? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Please engage to determine the quorum. I'm asking for a result. 81 present representatives. We have a quorum. We're going to the vote. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government? You can vote. The result? With 84 votes for, 2 abstentions and 8 against the proposed, application of the law by emergency procedure. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation in the "Customs" 2007 programme? Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 88 votes, 2 abstentions and one against adopted and this emergency procedure application. Third, who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Memorandums of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation in the 2003-2007 "Fiskal" programme? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 93 votes, 3 abstentions and 2 against and this one goes by emergency procedure. Fourthly, who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Memorandums between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community in the participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community incentive measures in the field of employment? Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 95 votes, two abstentions, and this law goes by emergency procedure. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Guarantee Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project of building another B stage of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 99 votes in unanimity and this Final Bill proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Objection can now be made only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session, and under point 16 of the proposal for a state budget under point 17. Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget. Under point 22, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank was included. The final proposal of the Leasing Act was included under point 23. Under point 24. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts. Under point 25. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development. Under point 26. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds. Under point 27. Proposal for an Asylum Act. Under point 28. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register. Any of the MPs object to including any of the proposed items in the agenda? There isn't. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I suggest that if you agree that I am not reading the full agenda, just to announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda. Thank you. The agenda is fully established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please confirm the quorum. Please turn on the keys. The result? We've got 80 quorum. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda of the 23rd session to the following points: 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a programme relating to the Community's gender equality strategy, an emergency procedure. 2. Proposal for a law to encourage investment, emergency procedure, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bank Act, emergency procedure, 4. Proposal for a law on credit unions, emergency procedure, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children, Emergency Procedure and 6. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Navigation, second reading. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out firstly that the proposal to adopt an individual law under an emergency procedure is: Proposal for a Law on Investment Encouragement, noting that the draft law and this proposal for an Investment Encouragement Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. The same proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks, the same P.Z.E. and the proposal for a law on credit unions, the same proposal for a P.Z.E. law, we do not vote on them to apply an emergency procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the other two proposed laws? There isn't. We can vote. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the programme relating to the Community Strategy on Gender Equality. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 79 for and 2 abstentions, the proposed application was adopted by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 77 votes for, one abstention and one against, going by the urgent procedure of this law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inland Navigation? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74860	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I must ask for an explanation, and a considerable number of Croatian citizens and defenders have called us. On behalf of the Croatian Parliament yesterday and on behalf of the Croatian Parliament as president of the Croatian Parliament, you received the delegation of the Association of Victims of the Homeland War of Osijek who handed you the signatures of 35,000 persons asking for the defense of our colleague and friend Branimir Glavas from freedom, including Croatian citizens, and we are also interested in the procedure here in the Croatian Parliament. So what's legal now is for both of us to do because we got 35,000 signatures. It is a form of direct democracy, a direct statement by Croatian citizens, that there is no situation like Mr. Tomcic in the former assembly of the Croatian Parliament received 400,000 signatures for the signing of the referendum, and in the end there was nothing. So, a purely legal procedure which and how we should work in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74861	Thank you very much. I received that petition and that's all. I don't have any procedure, there's no procedure to discuss that petition. It is a petition of citizens who expressed their views through the petition. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. The president of the HDZ club Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74863	I propose that it also be voted on to extend the agenda and amendments to the budget by raising hands because it will be both faster and more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74864	Okay. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 23rd session to the following points: Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Roads with a final draft law, an emergency procedure. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Securities Market Act, emergency procedure. 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Code, emergency procedure. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, second reading. 5. Proposal for a decision to maintain military exercises of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of other countries during 2007. Six. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO Operation "Active Endeavour". Seven. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan (ISAF). 8. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan for the period from 01 March 2006 to 31 October 2006. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt a specific law by an urgent procedure. I note that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Securities Market Act is P.Z.E. And secondly, the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act is also P.Z.E. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We don't vote on the rules of procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Roads? There isn't. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Public Roads? Please! Thank you. Against? With 90 for and 18 against and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. We have a quorum. We're moving on with the session. Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning, Construction. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74866	Your Honor, Mr. President! There is one proposal on behalf of the Croatian party right club. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you are likely to know that as of this morning, our colleague and friend Branimir Glavas' health has deteriorated alarmingly. So now we're getting into a situation where it's a matter of his life. I therefore propose on behalf of the Croatian Party Club that we do not politically argue that we are acting humanitarianally, humanely, and that we are already withdrawing our consent to the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to grant custody because of the severity of the crime, is this how we would enable Branimir Glavas to remain alive on the one hand? On the other hand, they would allow the investigation to be conducted because this is the worst situation possible now. God forbid my colleague Branimir Glavas dies, and unfortunately we are the participants of his death. Therefore, it is a proposal from our club and I ask that we decide today and enable the defence from freedom and the continuation of the investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74867	The Croatian Parliament has made its decisions and cannot change them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to complete the agenda and then after that, discuss some, vote on some of the points proposed. In accordance with Article 204 and paragraph 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 23rd session to the following points: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Access to Information for Public Participation in the Environment and Access to Justice, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, emergency procedure. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications with the final proposal for a Law, P.Z.E. Final proposal of the Household Activity Act, P.Z.E. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, emergency procedure. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Fines and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school, emergency procedure. Proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a heat project, emergency procedure. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol amending and supplementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States, of the other part, on customs quotas for sugar and sugar products originating in Croatia or in the Community. And a proposal for a law confirming the second Protocol with the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance on criminal matters, an emergency procedure. Article 205 The Rules of Procedure determines that an individual, firstly on a proposal to adopt an individual law by emergency procedure, are: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Access to Information, Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. These three laws bear the label P.Z.E. We do not vote on an emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? There isn't. Who is involved in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 79 votes to go. Unanimity. Secondly, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 79 votes in favour. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Fines and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Against? With 79 votes to go. Unanimity. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools? Against? Unanimity with 79 votes in favour. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Heat Project? Against? Unanimity with 79 votes in favour. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act confirming the Protocol amending and supplementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States, of the other part, on the tariff quotas for sugar and sugar products originating in Croatia or in the Community? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 79 votes in favour. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Second Protocol under the European Convention on Mutual Court Assistance in Criminal Matters? Against? With 79 votes to go. Unanimity. And finally who's for... Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the Final Proposal of the House of Restaurant Activities Act? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74872	Mr. President, for the addition of the agenda that you have proposed, I suggest you vote by raising your hands, it will go faster and more rationally.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74873	Thank you very much. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74874	Well, Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, we are certainly opposed to the urgency of the procedure because it has already become a practice that in December of the last days the agenda expands as is the situation with these P.Z.E.s. Yesterday we had on the board this law regarding safety in rail transport which is essentially proof that it should not work legally. And now under that cover of P.Z.E. and all else, all such laws are pushed, nor is this the Government's Legislative Office reviewing, nor can the committees discuss it metrically, and we are doing a legislative stampede. We've got a H.I.T.R., and we're playing "H.I.E.R." here. I don't know where it's going! So we're against urgency.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74875	Thank you very much. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the State of Israel on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income and property tax avoidance? Thank you. Against? With 79 votes for and 3 against, this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and Other Real Rights? Thank you. Against? With 62 votes in favour, 20 against and this bill goes by emergency procedure. And third, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports? Thank you. Against? With 65 for and 17 against and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Addition of the agenda has been completed. The meeting of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held in room 244/II by the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of Šima Prtnječa at 14:00 today. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would now suggest a two-point addition to the agenda. The quorum? 86. Club, representative of the HDZ club Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74877	... to decide to extend the agenda in such a way as to raise your hands rather than... [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74878	Thank you. These are two points next, the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. Second, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the State Border Control Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure, first of all, to pass the law by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border? There isn't. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border? Thank you. Against? 71 for, 15 against. He's going through an emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda Proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea? There isn't. I find that the addition of the agenda has been established. With regard to these points that are now included in the agenda, we will have a debate tomorrow and I suggest that a united debate be held with the Proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, which we have recently placed on the agenda. This is a proposal from the Government, together with the Proposal for a Decision from the Croatian Parliament on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea where the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSP with the Proposal for a Decision to amend and supplement the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea is proposed by the representative of Ante Markov. And a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, the Proposer of the Clubs of Representatives of HSS and SDP. Consent? Thank you. Today we would continue without a break and at 6 o'clock we would hold a debate on the already discussed part of the agenda and on those to be discussed. 18 o'clock vote. We have that Credit Union Act there, we have the Banks Act, weapons will go into third reading, draft conclusions and these laws that we discussed yesterday and that we discussed today. Comrade Cain, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74879	So just briefly one piece of information that we can track what's going to happen during today's word. What points are we going to discuss?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74880	Now we will discuss, we will now conclude this point on the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so the amendments and additions to the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials and then we will return to those four laws that we placed on the agenda yesterday, that is the Treaty with Croatia and Israel on the avoidance of Double Taxation, the Law on the System of Internal Financial Control in the Public Sector, ownership and other real rights and additions to the Law on Good and Maritime Ports. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin with a matter of government or a single member of the government. You know the procedure, I don't read the procedure. The current morning opens with the question of a representative of the respected representative, Šemsa Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74882	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will refer my question to Minister Kirina. Perhaps this same question could be answered by some of the other ministers, but I still have to list the person I should be asking for an answer. My electoral body has been informing me for more than three years with certain behaviours of your ministry when they need to resolve some issues. We get answers that what is possible in Zagreb is not possible in Vojnić, what is possible in Pula in Novi Vinodolski is denied the same thing. Obviously, there are certain behaviours within this ministry that are not transparent, and I would like it if it is possible for you to make order within your ministry. But the question I'm going to ask you is based on, I watched "New TV" and I had a chance to see the next scene. A group of Americans headed for a pilgrimage to Medjugorje in Split's port are being kidnapped by Islamic terrorists. With a full bus of hostages, they plan to flee to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74883	My colleague, ask a question, please. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74884	They're surrounded by Croatian special forces. And not to be too long, it all ends very, very nice. But what I was kind of worried about. There's no son of the desert.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74885	Comrade Tankovic! Please ask a question. Time's up to ask questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74886	There's no... Or a third person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're talking to the perfect Bosnian language.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74887	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74888	They speak the Bosniak names Suljo, Mujo, Haso, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74889	A colleague! You asked a question. Time's up. Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74890	I'm asking you a question. Is that a coincidence or is that some kind of message your ministry is sending to us and the world public?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74891	Minister, go ahead. My colleagues, please. Well, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74892	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. First. I don't know what to say to you because the production of TV shows and TV media is not done by the police. We're just a subport. You know who's in charge of the state. We don't think, and we know who's in charge of law and security in this country. That is why many shows normally show up and Croatian police officers because there is no one else to show up. There won't be an army or a third. What's really going on here is that you're going to have to ask the producers a question but what I'd like to say. We're just, the Home Office is doing no difference between these and those. And the policy we run with Bosnia and Herzegovina has only one goal. To create an environment and co-existence between all the peoples and peoples living in this area because the Republic of Croatia has a special interest in it and the tourist season has shown this also the tourist season where many guests from the countries and the former Yugoslavia continued. What I'm saying is that we follow in accordance with the legal powers and things like that if it's about someone being offended by national feelings, that someone is being insulted in this way, and that the Croatian police, by law, have the right to exclude materials, etc. So far, we haven't had that chance, but I'd like to give here as Minister of the Interior just one finding, a conclusion. As for the Ministry of the Interior, we have acted on all government decisions and for us national minorities represent the wealth of this country. That's how we're gonna behave. And if you have concrete evidence that someone's national feeling is hurt, etc., please contact those who produced it and we will surely do everything in our legal power. There's only so much I can tell you because I was just expecting another question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74893	Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74894	Of course, Mr. Minister, I can't be satisfied with such an answer because you and I both know well that it's targeted here anyway, targeted terrorism is directed towards Bosnia. And I'll just tell you and I've experienced directly here, in front of this house, the pressure of your ministry. When I came to the parking lot of the Croatian Parliament a few days ago with my car and your people simply removed that car. Please. Watch out. Please. They took out that car. They've removed it. Well, I was there. They could've called their cell phone the most normal way, so tell a colleague, Tankovic, move. But then it wouldn't be a form of pressure. Now, I got a message from your ministry...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74895	Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74896	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking Mr. Prime Minister, Evey Sanader. Mr. Sanader. You, saying in the Croatian Parliament in 2002 on the indictment of General Bobetka, presented a whole series of proposals that should be made to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in co-operation with The Hague, which is therefore the opening of a debate before the Council of Judges, the Hague Tribunal, before the Security Council, the engagement of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. You have proposed to amend the constitutional law by which Croatian courts could be shown by the indictments and you have also proposed a referendum. And you said in the end, now I'm going to quote, "That's what we're going to insist on and not give up on." That's what you said. But when you came to power, not only did you not spend it. You didn't even try, Mr. Sanader. The only thing you did that was a real Croatian HlTRO.HR. You have delivered to The Hague the tribunal of all Croatian generals, everything the Hague court has requested. You have so deceived the Croatian public because you consciously promised something that you could not keep and that you were not intending to keep or keep. Recently, the Republic of Croatia was rejected in its attempt to be a friend of the court in the Markac and Cermak case. In a very difficult case in which the Republic of Croatia, Franjo Tudjman, Ante Gotovina, is also accused of a joint criminal enterprise and of a crime against humanity, and you have failed to fight even if the Republic of Croatia is a friend of the court. Your administration didn't make it. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. President, what are you doing to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the least possible way against the UN tribunal?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74897	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74898	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Croatian government, I welcome this statement from MP Rados because this means that he finally came to the policy line that we consider to be the best. That's what we didn't hear when he was secretary of defense. I'd be glad to hear a statement like this while he was Minister of Defense. But we didn't hear that. Even more so, we heard a statement that while he was a defence minister, the Croatian army would not be ready to resist any possible aggression at that time. It was one of the perhaps most shocking statements in the Croatian public by any Croatian official. As for the co-operation with The Hague tribunal? Your Honor, Mr. Representative. This government is doing everything and maybe not talking in public, which we're not talking about in public. And rest assured, there is no political force but us and I call you to join us to defend the truth about the Homeland War in The Hague, in front of the Security Council, anywhere in front of the international community. The best way to defend this is by affirming Croatia and the current position Croatia has in the international community /Applause/ [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74899	Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74900	But he also defies the MPs, the President of the Parliament does not react to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74901	It's not about insulting. Here you go, counsel. Don't impute even the Prime Minister. You understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74902	What I was saying and doing. I did not come to our political position but you came to the political position of the coalition government and implement its policy on co-operation with The Hague because it is the only policy possible and regarding the answer to your question you said... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74903	Honored representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74904	Question, Prime Minister. The police investigation into the BrodoSplit affair is going on forever, she can't see the end. She's taking a snail step, although the attorney's office ordered the investigation nine months ago. So far, the Split police have only done two things. First, on June 6th, she brought a report that was publicly transmitted according to which everything is fine, all transparent, and it is known where 6 million dollars went. It's a scandalous report because it was brought before the investigation ended. That's how the implication police admitted that she had a report before she even started the investigation, before she finished it. Another thing that the Split police made was that at the moment of inspiration, an extraordinary inspiration raised criminal charges but against those who warned at the Supervisory Board's session about the possible harmfulness of the signed contracts and against those who opposed the signing of such transactions that today are the subject of global attention, especially Interpol and those dealing with money laundering. This is police behavior, i.e. The police administrations of Split-Dalmatia are indeed not correct and doubt the citizens that police are not only conducting an investigation correctly but are involved, involved in the case because giving reports that nothing happened before the investigation ended is nothing more than prejudicing things and hiding the truth. My question is, what have you done, how familiar are these facts to you, what have you done against those employees of this police administration who have shown in this way that the police in this case or some in the police are not the cause of the truth but the concealment of the truth and this affair?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74905	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74906	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, as likable as you may be to me, but you won't get me on this line that I, as president of the executive, interfere in investigative activities, processes of any police, any State's Attorney's office, anyone else. I'm the only thing I can do if I'd like to change the practice of not meddling politics in investigative actions, maybe I could make you a police minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74907	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74908	Well, it seems to me that almost every citizen of the five first citizens you meet in town would be better than the current minister, but let's put it aside. I did not ask you to interfere in the investigation process but rather to perform the post of Prime Minister of the Government because you are the head of the minister who is head of the Ministry of the Interior who in a scandalous way conducts this investigation and draws conclusions before the end of the investigation and thus acknowledges that he is protecting someone. My conclusion is that the policy is thick in this, especially the top of the policy because the chairman of the Supervisory Board was Mr. Vukelić and the vice-president of the Supervisory Board at the time, the Chancellor of the HDZ of Croatia, Mr. Poljak, your friends and associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74909	Dear Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74910	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I ask either the Prime Minister or the vice president in charge of the economy. It is generally known that more than 6.5 billion kunas of state aid are intended for shipbuilding and tourism. We representatives from northern Croatia managed to fight and thank the Government here and for understanding that at last part of these state aids are both direct and non-refundable and textile industry, which is mostly located in north-west Croatia. I ask the question, will the textile and wood industry, given that, in the meantime, a programme for revitalising the wood industry for this year, will receive these financial grants, in what amount and when will this happen? I would just like to warn and remind myself that this industry is again largely situated in north-west Croatia in its annual calculations, including state support. How so far we haven't heard when it will pay off and at what amount I ask you to tell all of us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74911	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74912	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, MP, thank you very much for asking. So very clear and concrete. The Croatian government has supported the wood industry in a way that has co-financed joint performances at international fairs so far, and has achieved a great deal so far. As regards the period ahead, the Croatian government has approved an operational development programme for the wood processing industry. Based on the operational programme in the resolution ministry and in the ministry's budget for next year, funds for the subsidies you're talking about have been provided. In particular, a tender will be launched in the 12th month. The tender will be structured in a way that the wood-processing industry or wood-processing companies will be able to apply and offer programmes that would be subsidized. These programs would be based, so they would have four fundamental objectives. One is the construction of a brand, the other is the development of new technologies, the third is the development of new products, and the fourth is a better way to use wood mass. In the 12th month, a tender will be announced on the ministry's website, with 41 million kuna secured for 2007, which would therefore be allocated to companies that will prepare and be valorised by the ministry through subsidies. And in addition to what does not belong to state subsidies and what we also envisaged by the operational programme and actually prepared the subsidized interest on loans. Credit lines are being negotiated with HABOR, in the first month or early of the second month we can expect very concrete and competitions for such loans that should greatly be helpful for the wood industry. As far as the textile industry is concerned with loans, we will continue with the 2006 practice, and we have foreseen a slightly higher level of funding and subsidies for their programmes in 2007. So we take care of this industry, we think that this industry has a future, and we will do everything we can to help those who can really monitor the pace and competition to prepare as much as possible for the global market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74913	Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74914	Well, thank you, and I agree with what it's responsible for. I hope equally that what is not responsible will therefore help us for this year with the 2006 grants for the textile industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74915	Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74916	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will ask my question to the foreign and European integration minister, Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. As a member of the Committee on European Integration, I am interested in your assessment of the latest report by the European Commission on Croatia's progress towards full membership published last week.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74917	Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74918	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Madam MPs, the European Commission published a report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the accession process of the past year from 1 October of last year to 30 September of this year. The European Commission also assesses that the Republic of Croatia has made progress or continued to make progress on the issues of meeting the political, economic criteria, harmonisation of legislation and implementation of commitments under the SAA. The main challenge for 2007 is the upgrade of progress achieved and the continuation of reforms in certain areas. I think that we can be satisfied with the 2006 report, given that the European Commission objectively assessed the progress made by all criteria and certainly the report contains clear guidelines for further reforms. Given that this year the process of "screening" or deep analysis of Croatian legislation is also completed, I believe that the team is more and more assessed in that report and that these positive assessments are even more and more powerful. There are also some inaccuracies or data that we will correct in communication with the European Commission, but I think it is worth pointing out that this year's report is almost twice as short as last year. On 66 pages, unlike last year, which contained 111 pages. And that we can indeed say that there is progress in all areas of meeting the criteria means political, economic, commitment to take over from the membership of the implementation of the SAA. I think it is extremely important to say that the European Commission said in the report that Croatia has increased the capacity to take on obligations from membership as regards harmonisation and the implementation of legislation. So the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European legislation. We welcome the fact that an individual approach is stressed. To point out that Croatia has well started negotiations and there are very good grounds for their fast and quality follow-up. So we hold that this report will also serve as a good basis for continuing negotiations. We are aware that in the case of political criteria, we need to focus in particular on strengthening the state administration, the state administration that stands out as one of the main challenges, on continuing the reform of the judiciary, and on continuing the fight against corruption as one of the priorities of this government. I would also point out that, in the area of meeting the economic criteria, Croatia has been assessed as a country of continued active market economy with high macroeconomic stability and that further reforms in this area are normally encouraged. In conclusion, then, what is important to say is that this report and its recommendations will serve the government in the follow-up to further reforms. That the recommendations are already being incorporated into our national accession programme for 2007, particularly in the short term. In particular, the medium-term measures are also incorporated into the three-year accession programme. It means 2008 and 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74919	Thank you. Representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74920	I thank you, Madam Minister. I am pleased with your response because it is seen to mean in the report that we have made progress in all areas particularly in political and economic. Two important areas. We are certainly coming to strengthen the state administration and reform the judiciary for our own sake, but also for the European Union and the fight against corruption. But I'd say something here. When it comes to the fight against corruption, it is mainly obtained on the basis of public perception that they should surely have some objective indicators, as was the case with the Ministry of Health. Polls, anonymous polls that gave a far more favourable state of health than public perception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74921	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74922	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question, I ask my representative a question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. Mr. President, we in Croatia are familiar with the difficult situation of new pensioners and therefore welcome any solution that contributes to improving their material position. One of the quality solutions is the Institute of Pensions, which can make a life-long retirement increase for employers who go to retirement early in the restructuring and rationalisation processes. In many areas, the Institute of Pensions is still being used insufficiently, although it reduces the income gap between new and old pensioners, while also achieving the employer's social responsibility with a view to protecting the dignity of workers and working towards the European and social model of corporate or professional pension insurance. You personally supported this social product as an example of social entrepreneurship, which as a source of Croatian innovation is the result of social dialogue and partnership incorporated into numerous collective agreements, as well as in a collective contract for civil servants and tenants. Many unions have also given support, and I have information that the Institute of Pensions will be the subject of the next session of the Economic and Social Council, so please answer me. What is the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make this indisputable and beneficial institute that can permanently improve the material position of those who become new pensioners, as widely applied especially in the economic environments in which the state appears both as owner and as employer?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74923	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74924	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, that's all you've said is completely our policy. So in this way, in cooperation with trade unions and employers, we want to make it as applicable as possible, as practical as possible. There is resistance so far, I must say this openly although in all situations I am the first to support and give full support to Croatian entrepreneurs because I believe they are one value in society. An entrepreneur is the one who opens up new jobs, which creates new values. But I have to say, unfortunately, so far, there's a little bit of resistance in some when it comes to that segment that would allow them and the workers a lot of me to tell a more humane breakup tomorrow. Therefore, what we are going to try for will be at the first session of the Economic Social Council one of the topics of retirement. We will strive to and with the unions are for, as are the pensioners' associations, your party, our party. I think there is a consensus about all parties in the Croatian Parliament. But what we need to achieve is to be an employer's association, to be all entrepreneurs, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce to be for that, and I think that we can then be in collective agreements and that entrepreneurs can count it as one of their activities that, in any signing of collective agreements, it will be an integral part. So that's our goal. We must, thank you for this question and for the opportunity to talk about it today because this is another way of public promotion of this Institute of Pensions, which is indeed the original Croatian product in Croatia, but it is little known in the borders of Croatia, and not to speak more widely. So we'll work on it. That's our orientation. There are models for that. There is already good practice in practice that has proved to be very good. People are interested in buying pensions. So all we have to do is talk social partners out of it. I'm saying most of the businessmen are in, but there's more resistance. It's up to us to get everything on a common table and put it in all the working relationship documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74925	Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74926	I am pleased with your response and I am pleased that you speak affirmably on your personal behalf and in the name of the Government on this undisputedly useful Institute of Pensions, and I will be pleased to create a legislative framework, a better legislative framework, so that this will all work out, and I ask you, however, that, with your authority, some of our financial agencies that have run hastily into the evaluation of this institute in some way, warn that they do not interfere with institutions that are not competent. For the sake of following this institute, I would still ask you a written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74927	Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74928	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. According to the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May '98. the year is entitled to compensation by beneficiaries of age, early age, disability and family pensions achieved under pension insurance laws until 31 December '98. A year. However, part of the beneficiaries of those pensions that have taken over the pensions of their spouses cannot exercise this right. Despite the fact that they used their retirement pension before they retired in '99. A year. So before the 31st December '98 deadline. the year she was less due to partial harmonisation since they were entitled to a family pension, and since they were entitled to a family pension after 1 January of '99. For years, they have no right to compensation. According to Croatian Pension Insurance Institute data, more than 45000 are in Croatia. As a matter of fact, it is a harsh failure in the law, which is obviously the result of work between others and unprofessional in their preparation, and under the pressure of the public in the House, it was actually obvious that this illogicality should be corrected. My question is: Since this promise has been several months since the budget is being prepared for next year, since this injustice certainly needs to be corrected because it is among other things for family pensioners who are receiving very low pensions that we ask you whether and how do you solve this problem in as short a time as possible to compensate these insurance companies?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74929	Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74930	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. The government is aware of the problem you were talking about. As you know, as it is well known to both you and the general public that we found a model so to repay the debt, that the first war was paid, and the second one now follows in mid-December, and about the problem you warn about. We're aware. We also talked about it in this assembly and the government appointed a working group that started working, which, of course, asked primarily for the calculation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. They are at the end and are also working on rounding the model, i.e. preparing the law, i.e. amending and supplementing the law that should address this issue. So, it's being solved, the task force is working, the task force is named as much as I remember in October of this year, and I believe that this job will eventually be the perfect and of course problem solved as we do parallelly and the problem so-called. New pensioners. So you're also aware of the problem. Yesterday, the prime minister also spoke about it at the cabinet's meeting and announced modeling, modeling and solving problems during the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74931	Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74932	Of course, I am partially satisfied with this answer, given that a working group is formed to do something, but I have received information not about what this is about, how this solution is envisaged, so I would like to get a written answer showing both the positions of the working group and the suggestions on how to solve this. That's number one. And number two, you know shouldn't happen in this category of insurance and social groups to happen with a promise in that folk proverb. That promise needs to be done, because it needs to be righted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74933	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74934	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Mr. Bozidar Calmeta. Mr. Minister, on the last "current afternoon" you denied that the state owed certain jobs in part of infrastructure facilities such as highways and the like. Minister Shuker also tried to convince us of the debate and implementation of the state budget for the first six months of this year. However, contractors deny you and publicly provide information that not only cannot be charged, but cannot even invoice for the works carried out. One example is the performers of the work on the river bypass, and of course, their co-operatives who, apart from the already known slide on the river bypass are being questioned here and with the collection of long-running works done. My question is, Mr. Minister, how long will you deal with the problem of lack of obvious money in your ministry? In this way you are jeopardizing the workers and their families, and ultimately this is about misleading taxpayers, and it is also a false display of the expenditure of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74935	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74936	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Representative, I must say that what you said does not stand. And this can be easily checked in Croatian highways and Croatian roads where practically all payments are made in relation to contractors who have been obtained through a public tender practically in the day. Whether or not the work performers and their co-operatives they choose are being selected are experiencing some tightening over the payment, etc. And now that's another question that we can't influence. But when it comes to the state, the state budget of the Croatian highway, which this year, for example, have about 2.3 billion kuna for clean construction I can say here responsible that payments are practically to performers in the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74937	Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74938	Mr. Minister, perhaps I can understand on one side that you don't know what's going on in your ministry given the size of the ministry. However, I must warn that these days Croatian roads have directed workers to the works that will not be paid for until further notice, works carried out on the river bypass, at least by 2007. I kindly ask you to check it out, give a written answer. Because of this, unfortunately, that you have spoken to the Croatian public here today, and especially these workers who are not only with the contractors, but also about the cooperatives who are tied to them, unfortunately do not live by the words and the throw-offs of Mr. Shucker, but live from the money that the state owes them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74939	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go. [[Come on, be nice, sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74940	Dear Mr. President, I have questions for the Minister of Health. Since he's not there, he'll probably have the Ministry's representative answer. Why is the new Pavilion of the County Hospital in Čakovec not in office until the day of today? I also ask this question in order to warn in my opinion the irresponsible relationship between doctors and patients of our county hospital who are still located in inadequate departments and premises. I'm particularly referring to the Pulmonary Department, Psychiatry, Infectious Department, Internal Affairs and other departments. I particularly point out that the construction of the new pavilion itself began on 15.10.2003, that construction works were completed according to plan and deadline, even before the deadline of 31.10.2005 and that a useful permit was issued in the second month of 2006. On the contrary, the process of supplying the necessary equipment has not been completed so far. And not only that, just these days, for my own reasons, the State Commission has annulled the entire 16 million kuna medical equipment tender. So, unfortunately, you still don't know when the new pavilion will be in office, because there is going to be a repeat of a very long procedure, from the call for tenders to the appeal deadline. This situation is causing our county's dissatisfaction because the fact that the new pavilion will only function at best in the 5th year since the start of construction. So once again I ask the question when will the new Pavilion of County Hospital be in office and why has the tender for part of the equipment been cancelled, I mean the medical part of that contest?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74941	Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74942	Mr. President, Mr. Honorable Representative. I thank you for this question and for the opportunity to speak in a few words about exactly the investment of the General Hospital of Čakovec. So exactly as mentioned in the agreement of the Ministry of Health, the County of Međimurje and Čakovec County Hospital, a loan was raised by the County Hospital of Čakovec to 100 million kuna for the construction of the pavilion. The repayment of credit is planned to return 35% of the loans directly from the state budget from the health ministry's position and 65% from the county level and again by dividing 65% from those 65% through decentralised funding and 15% by investment from the county. It is also true that at the end of 2005, construction works were completed on the polyclinic stationary pavilion and that it had joined the project of equipment for which also the funds provided by the Ministry of Health from the state budget amounted to 9 million kuna over 3 years, from the county level at the same level 9 million kuna per year by 3 million kuna, of which 2 and a half million go through decentralised financing, and 500 thousand kuna from County funds, and 9 million kuna out of loans. During the year the county hospital and the counties which were involved in the implementation of so-called public competitions and... They conducted the competitions and it is true that a certain part of the competition was simply cancelled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is why it's gonna need to be seen. On the part of the ministry, however, we have undertaken that these competitions are being held in some way, because I repeat, the tender holders are the County of Međimurje and the winner of the competition is Čakovec County Hospital. So by the end of 2006, the Department of Internal and Infectology will be opened in this polyclinical facility, and according to the tenders, we expect to open in early 2007 and for other contents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74943	Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74944	Well, I'm not happy with the answer. I think you've had to prepare a little bit more. In fact, you didn't answer my question when the entire pavilion would be open. So that's not your question. You also didn't answer my question of responsibility and your ministry because there is a representative of your ministry in the commission. You didn't give me an answer as to why the contest was cancelled. And since there's a lot of uncertainty, there's speculation, I think you've had to give me an answer as to why this contest was annulled. This is how patients will continue to be, especially those who need health care at a far higher level today will still be in those areas that are inadequate for their accommodation. I would therefore ask a written answer, especially in that part precisely why a tender for the equipment of a new pavilion with medical equipment was cancelled. And preferably, I would pray, therefore, if the responsibility is determined for these people who are responsible, therefore, and in some way sanctioned. Because I'm saying, it's inadmissible that it's definitely going to be five years since the construction of a new pavilion in Čakovec that he's out of office. That's really inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74945	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74946	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I refer my question to the president of the Croatian government, Dr. Ivo Sanader. We who were born 90 years ago, I don't know if there are any more of those in this assembly, we learned from basic educational subjects such as Marxism, TIPS and general defenses and social protection, that revolution is a violent change of social and state order, because then it justified the course of the revolution. And when the revolution came back from the forest after a while, it set up democracy on a drawn knife, and so the democracy that was established started in an unprecedented robbery, and after some time they declared that hunt a social property. Now thank God, 15 years ago this Croatian National Assembly passed one of the most important laws in its history when it comes to hunting and, when it comes to agricultural and forest land, to state agricultural forest land. And now in our time we have a young modern revolutionist on an island down near Dubrovnik, I think that island is called Mljet or something. Otherwise, he's mayor and belongs to the Party of Democratic Change. The mayor of the Party of Democratic Change began selling the Croatian country no less than to foreigners. Thanks to the dear God in this country, there is much wrong, but there is also something good and a trial has begun and after a final judgment that this young revolutionary has sinned and that this is a state land, he later declares believe or not, I quote: "that nothing is yet over" after a final court ruling. It is supported by the leaders of his party, the Party of Democratic Change. My question to you, President of the Croatian Government, is: What will the Croatian Government and you personally as its first minister do to make sure that more crimes like this do not happen because, for example, the country of the state is sold in America, Great Britain, Germany, France or in our territory to be close to Austria, the close country of Austria is high treason. Thank you very much for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74947	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74948	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, I see in your particular matter a very serious situation. In Croatia, a debate has developed backwards for several years, a reasoned and well-founded rapprochement on whether the Croatian islands should be sold out. Should we sell the Croatian country, should we preserve our beautiful islands from apartmentisation, concreteisation and all that we are all against together. And in this effort, at least I was convinced that we have the support of all in Croatia, especially all political parties in the Croatian Parliament. However, after these events, I must really say that I doubt that because there is support for the Croatian coast and Croatian islands to be preserved from what we are talking about. Mljet is one of the most beautiful, if not the most beautiful island. Maybe one of the most beautiful islands in the world. It's an oasis, it's a paradise on earth. All those who were there, the inhabitants and the inhabitants of Mljet know it well. Personally, it's inadmissible to do two things. First of all, sell something that isn't yours. That's the first one. It's not municipal land, it's state land and there's a powerful verdict of the County Court in Dubrovnik about it. That it is not yet almost what the gentleman who has been rewarded for it is saying that his party has put him at the helm of the SDP county organisation, which is also seen as a relationship to the rule of law, etc. That's another thing. But that man still says it's not like that, but it's like this, and let him walk the legal way and to the Constitutional Court, and we'll see. But everything and if that were the case, if everything were the way he says it is municipal land, the question is what we all in Croatia are talking about, are we going to sell Mljet, are we going to sell Mljet not to foreigners and Croats, to anyone, or are we not going to save Mljet as a national park, as something that is most beautiful in Croatia. That's a fundamental question. I'm gonna keep him safe. If only it was community land, and it's not what the court says.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74949	Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74950	According to our Rules of Procedure, they can express satisfaction or dissatisfaction. I'm not happy with your response, but I expected you to tell me maybe that young leader at Mljett of the Party of Democratic Change seems to have sold some Russian land for 2 million and 800 thousand euros. I want to know where your money is. And then I'm curious, in this part of it, the rule of law has already said that the other institutions of the Croatian state are saying that the revolution would finally go to the wasteland of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74951	The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74952	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll ask the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Lovrin. Madam Minister, at the end of this year, the deadline laid down in the Law on Land Books, which states that it should be filed, shall take the procedure to re-write what is outside of literary property and, at the same time, the State's Attorney's Office has been ordered to register the same in the Republic of Croatia if that corresponds to the proposition. On the other hand, I know that the state's attorneys from before have orders to book in the Republic of Croatia the land that was in the Croatian forests. I also know that cataster offices have a warrant for the Geodesy Office, so the Central Office, to revise their records and comply with what's in the land books. No matter what the cadastrian record is, it's almost equal in nature. And now I see the next thing. If we do so, it may happen or likely that the speedy process will remove the property records outside the registered owners. I am therefore asking you: Will it happen, will the cadastre go undo its record which I repeat now almost equal the state of nature, in order to comply with what is in land books which is very much in part with the state of nature and whether in this way and off-book owners will clear out of the cadastrian record. And right away, whether the ministry has an assessment that this negative consequences can have because it can certainly be about the destruction of the situation in real life situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74953	Minister Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74954	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. Here, you ask what will happen to the provisions of the amendment and the addition of the Law on Land Books which speaks about the reshaping of land books with an instructive deadline by 1.1.2007, but obviously your question is, I would say, also refer to the provision of the Law on Property and other real rights which introduced a suspension of the application of the principle of trust in the land book, in the truth and completeness of the data in the land books. It is precisely because, as we have already heard, for almost 50 years in this country, it has been social property without the titleholders, meaning everyone's and nobody's, and precisely because one, I would say, is an essential change introduced in this country in relation to ownership and precisely because it is necessary to reshape land books that will then have the records in accordance with the Law on Property. And precisely because, in nature, there is a factual and still huge discrepancy between the data of land-based and catastrian data, i.e. the factual situation on the ground, precisely because 50 years have not been carried out neatly in the book and changes in the land-books, but have occurred outside of the registered ownership changes. And precisely because these data are not harmonised, the project is to establish a land-book database where cadastral and land-book data will be harmonised. In accordance with the August government's conclusion, the Ministry of Justice has made an amendment to the Law of Ownership which it will refer to in the parliamentary procedure of these days to which it is extended, it proposes to extend the deadline for suspension of trust in land-book truthfulness and the scope of the data. This is precisely why the principle of the state in this Mljet case, which we just heard, will have no adverse consequences because it will be possible to register later and the damage will be borne by the acquirer, not by the state. That is exactly how it will be for all other acquirers on real estate on which social property was entered until the entry into force of the Property Act in 97. So there's no need to worry. The deadline for reshaping will be extended and a proposal will be to extend the deadline for the suspension of the principle of trust in land books, which will then be subcessionally waste compared to those of the cadastrian municipalities for which the cadastrian and land-book status is harmonised and reshape land-books.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74955	Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74956	Well, Minister, I'm pleased with this "we'll extend the deadline". I'm afraid, however, that if we ignore that thing, the cadastrian records will make it look like people in what's called a "house and yard." Therefore, this thing is very serious, I would like to pay equal attention to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74957	Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74958	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is Minister Kirina. Last session held a debate on drug abuse. From the debate, it was evident that the Ministry of Interior had neither enough men nor adequate equipment to catch up with the equal fight against this monster. In fact, we know that the Ministry has 170 cops trained in the fight against drugs, and they don't have almost any equipment. We also know that dealers in Croatia earn between 120m and 150m euros annually while the Croatian government spends 57m 822m kuna on fighting this monster. So I'm curious, Mr. Minister, what you're planning or what you're planning to do to make this situation change, so there won't be a fight between David and Goliath anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74959	Minister Ivica Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74960	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs. I'm glad you asked this question to stop the discussion once in the Croatian public about whether there are equipment in the Croatian police, whether there are police in Croatia who are ready to fight drugs. The other day I was distracted by a newspaper inscription where it was commented that the Office for Drug Control had received less money and thus there will be no fight against crime, against dealers will not be good, and so that only 170 officials in Croatia deal with the fight against drugs. Unfortunately, this is one notorious lie because in the system of civil servants who are employed by the Ministry of the Interior you have 26 thousand people, approximately 18 thousand authorized officials. We are now working through an action plan together, with cooperation at the head of the Committee on Drugs Management, is my Deputy Prime Minister, and with the Office, how we will take preventive measures, not only repressive as regards drug control in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The government has also approved through its budget the Ministry of Interior precisely because of the activities that we have, due to integrated border management and the Schengen Action Plan, the taking of an additional number of people who will have one of the tasks, which is preventing the roads that narcotics travel from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, etc. The Balkan route towards Western Europe. With course, even greater and more repressive surveillance of our ports because we noticed that we had certain activities here. Therefore, here in front of the Croatian Assembly, I can only say that we are now under way to open an additional 200 and some more criminals and 600 middle-skillers who will now meet to cover exactly those places as well as islands that are our particular problems. Because because of the lack of police officers, you have to be aware that people from the coastal areas, or Dalmatia, will not respond to the call of a police officer, but usually the ones from the northern parts of Croatia, so we have a problem with the provision of living space, etc. Right now, the Ministry is for next year, which you'll be witnessing, and human resources, solves human resources problems, but it also solves the housing of police officers to get more people. But what's most important is that today we have an agreement and cooperation, i.e., direct cooperation with all the police in our environment, and we get information about all the activities of drug dealers and roads. The most important thing for us today is to prevent these small dealers dealing around schools, on the streets, etc., from the flow of drugs in Croatia and to break the Balkan route in our area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74961	Representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74962	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. When I thought there were 170 trained cops, I was kind of happy with the result. But now that you've said there's a lot more cops the result hasn't exactly shown up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74963	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74964	My question is, I was actually going to tell Mr. Minister of Health, Mr. Ljubic, but since he doesn't have one, then I'm going to refer my question to the Secretary of State, Mr. Golem. From today, the use of two lists of medicines means those medicines that are on the baseline list A and with free medications and B supplementals with medicines at extra charge. At the same time as today, supplemental health insurance is no longer covered by medicinal products participation, so all patients who come to the pharmacy with a prescription for B-listed medicinal products will pay an extra charge of 20 to 150 kuna. At the same time, insurance companies did not open an insurance policy that would allow citizens to pay the insurance premium and thus be provided in case of the need for payment of medicinal products from the supplemental B list. Patients in expensive treatments will have to pay for their essential medicines from their wallet or if they do not have money, they will have to give up therapy. I'm asking you why the government isn't in "Croatia Insurance" that the state-owned encourages the opening of a policy like this, means insurance policies that will cover the meds on B list? Well, since you haven't prepared that by the time this provision comes into force, why has the amendment of the law that could have been discussed and voted today not delayed the application of a provision under which the supplementary insurance of HZZO no longer covers costs for expensive medicines?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74965	Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74966	Mr. President, thank you, and thank you to the honourable representative for pointing again to something much to be said about these days, which should be made clear and loud. So, in the changes and in the adoption of regulations for basic and supplemental drug lists, we have made it clear and loud that medicines are practically for all diseases on the basic list, and now this is a public opportunity to say over a thousand and 800 and some medicines that are provided to citizens without any extra charge. A small number of medicines, exactly 302 medicines, are listed on the supplemental list of medicines where payments range from 5 kuna to 20 kuna, not as indicated. In addition, the Fund of Expensive Medicinal Products was also introduced for the most expensive on one hand therapy for patients who are chronic patients or life-threatening patients, whose treatment means not only quality life but also life at all. As for the hospital's list of medicines, the list of medicines used in the hospital is as such placed on the basic list of medicines, therefore also free of charge. In the system of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, it is true that several additional health insurance policies do not cover an extra charge for medicines because we do not think there is a need, given that according to the number of medicines the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can receive quality, global and modern therapy on the basis of a free list of medicines, and on the other hand, not only "Croatia Insurance" but also other insurance houses with which I have been in contact, but also from the making of laws, legal proposals, and from the making of sublegal acts, according to our knowledge, are preparing just such policies with which they are also allegedly going to go to the market these days. We believe that this measure has contributed to the stability of the market, we believe that we have contributed to the accessibility of medicines to all citizens, and we believe that with this additional measure when on the open market as "Croatia Insurance" and other insurance companies enter and when they cover that part of the surcharge according to their business processes that will be allowed above the standard in health care so that I believe that there was no need to delay the application of this Act, which has been demonstrated today since the first day the law was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74967	Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74968	Well, Mr. Golem can't be satisfied with this answer because if it were all the way you said it would be, then we wouldn't actually need a list of Bs. List A is the one that then covers all needs. Therefore, then everyone will use only A-list drugs, meaning these free medicines. However, the B list exists for some reason, now we will not enter into the debate, which is why you said it is only being considered, that you have been in contact with insurance houses and that there is only one policy to be considered, and therefore I have asked why the application of this Act is not delayed because I am afraid that this is actually another example of how this government affects the rich, and at the expense of the poor, because this way those who have enough money will be able to afford expensive medicines, and those who are poor, and unfortunately in this country are much more, they will actually be forced to or pay out of their pocket if they are not able, and most often will not be, at the very least, will have to give up treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74969	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74970	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government with members of the government. I will ask my question to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Bozi Bishop. Ma, Mr. Minister and the Parliament and the media have recently shown a petition of 40 cultural workers in favour of unilaterally without competitions from the City of Zagreb set up by the permanent collection of museums of contemporary art. I believe the public really should be fully informed on this subject. Please answer me if the Ministry of Culture and the City of Zagreb jointly finance the construction of museums and if this is true, did they decide together on the author of a permanent setup, or will it do so if they are daily, almost daily newspaper inscriptions on this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74971	Minister of Culture Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74972	Mr. President, Madam Representatives, a brief history of community and this division. '98. and '99. In the year we held the competition, today my colleague Minister Dropulić was mayor of the city and I, as Minister of the Museum of Contemporary Art, was actually one of the aspirations of a long-standing, decade-long drive for something to start working in Zagreb. The agreement following the invitation to tender was concluded by the coalition government with the city on 11 May 2001 on 320 million kuna. The building itself and the foundation stone laid two and a half years after the signing of the agreement, 5 days before the election. Of course, after that we continued to build because it was also the project that we all wanted together and we continued the normal construction and with that part of co-financing of our 160 million kuna, at least as planned, so the contracts were signed in payment wars. What is controversial here is that on the basis of the criteria of the Croatian Museum Council for Permanent Laws, which have been publicly published by the Croatian Museum Council since '98. until 2004 he followed the work on making musical concepts of the collection, but not only museums of contemporary art but all museums in Croatia and brought in several, four or five of his sessions to decide that the establishment of people who are employed in the museum, experts who run their collections together with the director. In 2004, the principal presented the lineup, and the Museum Council accepted it. However, now in 2006 at 6 months, at the end of 6 months a letter comes to the Croatian Museum Council which acts at the Ministry of Culture that the request for an opinion regarding the authorship of the permanent collection of the Museum of Contemporary Art. What's this about? But it seems to be a common practice of SDP from the sleeves in 2000 when we named it in 1999 Vesna... to be the Venice Biennale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2000, no one wanted to talk to her. She was simply not told in a civilized way that she did not want it, that it was not good, anything but a humane solution was drawn and set up as a menu for the Venice Biennale. The same case with the same man is happening now that the City of Zagreb on 20 April, the City of Zagreb writes to the museum that they must also set up with their funds from regular curstos and collection of museums. 20 days later, on 11 May, they were sent a memo saying they had to pay a fee to Mr. Makovic of 123,000 kuna and he would be the museum's founder. We think it's one thing without building and working together, it would be common if at least someone had informed us before. We were not informed, nor were we questioned. If we're good, the turkeys are said for new... I guess we're good enough to ask who we're going to ask together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The more there is the opinion of the Museum Council, the more anyone should ask. The museum council again decided at the session that the establishment should work for people from museums, experts from museums and only collecting signatures, and that would say, it probably came when a man has a clean conscience he doesn't need signatures to confirm what he was appointed for. There's probably some reason to collect signatures, I don't know who started and why they were collected and why they were sent to the Parliament he doesn't understand. Maybe they should've been sent to the city, so the city could say why he forced himself to name such a director, in that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74973	Representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74974	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I pass you every day by the building that is under construction and thank you for bringing us back a little bit to the history of construction. She's coming to an end. And I hope that what is happening now in the media around the lineup, around the author of the setup, will be resolved by the fact that the Museum Council probably said its according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74975	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74976	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a question for the Home Secretary. Mr. Minister! My question is from the field of police terror, and since this is an incredible thing, please listen to me carefully and I'm asking the question based on the written statement of the person involved in the case. On August 04, 2006 in the Police station Vinkovce Inspector Ivica... He invited the father of 14-year-old girls to an informed conversation with reasons that she had participated in some immoral activities on the basis of an anonymous application. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The man happens to be an opposition councilman in a municipality in which he happens to be in HDZ and who has won a court dispute against the municipality over the lack of the right to information. Hansel... The police inspector asked and ordered that this 14-year-old child have to undergo a gynaecological examination and receive confirmation that she is innocent and that he can close the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Accompanied by two uniformed officers, she was brought to the Vinkovci Medical Center. The mother is not allowed to have an examination, nor has the doctor, after examining the child or mother, issued any findings that he gave to the inspector or the police. No criminal proceedings have been brought against that little girl, nor is she suspected of committing any crime. Both the municipal council and other opposition council members were asked for inspection supervision, but I will send the documentation to Minister Dropulić because it is her inspectorate. I'm asking you, Minister, do you know of this case, does a police officer really have the right to seek the gynecologist's findings that children, girls, are innocent, will you run internal surveillance and what sanctions can we expect for this kind of police action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74977	Minister Ivica Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74978	Dear Representative Lesar. In your question of abuse of police powers in Vinkovci, you could at least be specific so that I could prepare myself for this issue. This is not how you listed a specific case, you didn't tell me at any police station because we have two in the Vinkovci and I can't take this any other way but as one political question. Because if you had specifically told me about this case, I would have sent my police directorate to investigate this whole case. Of course, I am opposed to being treated and to being denied, especially by the police, or ordered by someone outside the law, and we will personally examine and direct internal control. And I'm just telling you. If you wanted the Croatian Parliament to have a question, so before this session you should have specifically told us about the case and not me talking as Minister whether I know something about the case I've heard about for the first time. We got your question, but we didn't know what it was about or what it was about. Otherwise, I invite you here, you and the Croatian public, to make sure that all the abuses you know of police officers are freely reported and I will repeat once again, which I have said once again, the number of 650 strong and disciplinary means of police officers who ended up in court and some of them are out of work is proof that the Croatian police are also dealing with their internal affairs and not only with external crime. This is what I want to tell you for the reason that we already have to take down the Stigm and rub off the Croatian police that we are incompetent, that we are not corrupt, etc. That's not true. And these cases, specifically, where police powers have been violated, believe that we will investigate, we will send internal control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74979	Minister. It is not appropriate for you to state to the MPs that their question is from their political intentions. Stick to the rules of conduct in this House. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74980	Thank you, Mr. President, for your intervention. Mr. Minister. I believe that you will discover which police station in Vinkovci is being worked by Inspector Ivica... I didn't generalize, I listed the name and last name of a single man in the police system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wasn't accusing the police or the police system, but I gave you a specific name. And Ministers, please. That child has suffered a terrible trauma so far because of her survival. And that's why I didn't dare give you any specifics, but now you have them. And I ask you to respond...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74981	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74982	In response, I ask you to make every effort to protect the identity of the child.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74983	Order! Mr. Representative Velimir Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74984	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! We know the situation in the area of concessions of exceptional economic importance. Given the importance of concessions for the economy of the Republic of Croatia, we know that at the end of 2004 the first and most significant step has been made to regulate concessions by adopting a Regulation on the establishment and management of concession registers. Mr. Shuker, please state the situation in the area of concessions and the measures to be taken in order to introduce order into this extremely important area and especially in relation to the concession register.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74985	Minister Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74986	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Mr. Representative, as you yourself have said, one question which, unfortunately, up to two years ago in Croatia has neither been treated more significantly nor cared more about it, although this issue of concessions has an exceptional importance from an economic aspect because many economic activities in Croatia without obtaining a concession could not take place. However, it also has another meaning and it is fiscal and protection, so I can even say the national interests of the Republic of Croatia because many activities, starting with mining across the water, use of maritime goods are regulated by the Law on concessions. By 2004, no one had been systematically dealing with this problem. And when we adopted the Regulation on the establishment of the concession register in 2004 it became clear to us in principle why no one wanted to deal with it so far. For the simple reason that up to 6,000 contracts that we have managed to collect over the past year and a half, we have seen how difficult it was to get to them because these concessions some betrayals and units of local self-government, some government betrayal. However, many local powerful men simply refused to supply that information at the invitation of a ten - time minister. That register is fortunately in its final establishment, this year we have its test use. Since 2007, I expect somewhere around 6,000 concession contracts will be on the Ministry of Finance's website. All concession contracts will be made available to the Croatian public, the very model of collecting concession contracts has led to revenue in the state budget with the basis of concession fees increased in the last two years by over 100%. But when I mention some activities and they are used for some political purposes and you have no, clearly and transparently record contracts, then you see how dangerous it is. The concession agreement regulates excavations, gravel fees and even the construction of highways. If the material being dug back into the bedway should not be used as such without regulating some kind of contract. And we have had several international disputes with companies that have worked in Croatia precisely because it is not properly and adequately regulated. Because in the end, if someone were to charge for the installation of a cot in the construction of the road and he dug up that stone on the lane of the highway and grinded it and brought it back then in a certain way or he shouldn't have charged it or had to pay the concession to whoever he was supposed to pay. I sincerely hope, therefore, that since the Government adopted one regulation ten days ago that obliges all participants in this process to issue and control concessions that are due to the Ministry of Finance to deliver concession contracts, that all local self-government leaders and those who issue concessions, regardless of which political party is headed by the end of the year and that, as of 2007, we will be able to say that there is finally a concession register in Croatia and that every Croatian citizen, every Croatian entrepreneur, entering the website of the Ministry of Finance, will be able to check for a certain economic activity that requires concession as well as under what conditions he has received that concession. And in the end, today, when a new concession is launched to see under what conditions was the previous competition and the basis of how it can offer these conditions. But I repeat, only the beginning of the contract collection has led to the fact that the revenue from the concessions increased practically 100% and when we establish this concession register, then the leaders of the local self-government units and the state budget will feel that much because the revenues will certainly increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74987	Representative Velimir Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74988	Thank you for your response. I hope that the test work that started this year 2007 will go into regular procedure and fully implement that concession register. And I think that finally this is proof that the control and payment system of concessions with a clear distinction between the responsibility of each individual donor will be the one that will bring us even more revenue into the state budget. Because it is especially important to me in your answer that you mentioned how it will be transparently visible to everyone in which these concessions are being led, in which way you collect income from these concessions and that is just another proof that the project and Croatia that launched this government of Dr. Sanader is also going to live in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74989	Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74990	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, although my colleague Loncar has already partly used this issue regarding Mljet, and after Mr. Sanader's unequivocally reply, I will remain on my own as I refer to Mrs. Justice Minister Lovrin. In fact, in public, some SDP officials are still trying to push through the the thesis that the sale of state land, so the illegal sale of state land in Mljet was actually a legal act directed by SDP's head of the municipality, which is probably why it was promoted to the president of the SPD County Organisation. It is not particularly surprising to me personally if we remember that their party chief, the party's former Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Racan, then left it so lightly or tried to leave part of Croatia's territory in Savudrija Vala, but since there are already final or legal verdicts here, I would ask the Minister to say in what final verdicts in the Mljet word case? What kind of land are we talking about? And I would especially ask you to tell us if there are elements of criminal responsibility for the mayor of the municipality who sold this country since he was warned by the State's Attorney's office that trying to sell this country would actually be an illegal act. So in the tender process he was warned by the State's Attorney's Office that he was doing something illegal. I wonder if there are elements of criminal responsibility for that person?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74991	Minister Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74992	Mr. President, Mr. Representative, here's the job of the Justice Department is to ensure that the bill provides a legal basis and a material basis for ensuring the effective work of the judiciary and for the functioning of the rule of law and the rule of law. This government will certainly do everything to protect the general goods and mainly national treasures and in this case it is forest land and agricultural land, especially when it is on one of the most beautiful Adriatic, Adriatic islands. In this case, which has been going through the media for a long time, but it is in the area of the judiciary and in this part is also the State's Attorney's Office as an independent part of the Croatian judiciary and the Croatian courts have completed the case. So it's about the sale by the Mljet municipality of about a million and some squares of land, agricultural and forest land. In one case, the book failed because there was no legal sequence compared to the one entered... Therefore, one company from Zagreb failed to register 250 thousand squares, and this is a forcefully rejected enrolment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of another company of 100,000 squares, a powerful verdict was made in favour of the Republic of Croatia which established the ownership of the Republic of Croatia in that part and compared to 600 thousand squares allegedly sold to one natural person is under way. A first-degree ruling in favour of the Republic of Croatia was reached and the case before the second-degree court. What is important here to say is that, whether there are elements of the crime will determine it in the State's attorney's procedure. Whether there are elements of the criminal offence of deliberate acquisition without grounds for legal basis in accordance with the Law on Criminal Responsibility of legal persons, this will be determined by the State Attorney's Office, and the State's audit will probably have to assess in the budget of this municipality whether it was harmful actions for the municipality for the reason that it is now, according to this powerful verdict, is one-off judicial costs which unfortunately will have to be borne by the municipality in its budget if it loses and, by all means, it will be over half a million costs of judicial, judicial proceedings. So it was certainly legally established in two cases that it was state land and, in my knowledge, the State Attorney's Office had warned the head and responsible person that it was already on sale. And exactly what I'm trying to say and on the trail of the issue of representatives of Gajica precisely in the principle of a suspension of trust in the land book has led in this case to the fact that the Croatian state has managed to preserve this land. So a million square meters of the most attractive land on the most attractive island in the Adriatic. Otherwise, the acquirer would have acquired trust in land books, and unfortunately, the state would have remained only to compensate Mljet municipality for damages in millions of amounts that the municipality probably would not have. Following this provision until the full harmonisation of land-based and catastrian data has proved to be extremely useful in terms of the protection of national goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74993	Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74994	Thank you, Madam Minister. I am pleased to see that the Croatian public could hear that two powerful verdicts ended or that the state land was returned to where it was and that it would remain owned by the state. But unfortunately, the sad fact that this same community chief actually got support from some of our colleagues from these assembly benches who came to him on the spot, to Mljet to support this illegal sale of land. It grieves, and unless there are actually sanctions, I'm afraid it would be a public invitation for everyone to try to sell something that isn't theirs. In this case, there may be even more municipalities that think they can sell state land. That would be truly tragic, and that's why I really think, personally, I think it should be sanctioned and I believe that there will be a foothold in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74995	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74996	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cobankovic, for two months, there was not enough time for you to answer Mr. Pecek's representative question about the data of the biggest users in agriculture. I must say that you yourself know the number of employees since 2003, according to my knowledge of some 380, has been increased to almost 800 and something. Almost doubled. I believe that services are well equipped even though you say in your answer that it is an extremely demanding and long-term job that after the data is finished, you will give an answer to the unique information system and so on. I'm asking you nicely, you know it's an extremely sensitive area. You know, in terms of incentives, we have an extremely big problem. The people in the country don't have any money. They didn't get the promised incentives. You promised everything would be paid. Two-thirds paid for wheat, rape oil, barley and this part in the war zone. Unfortunately, however, you know that cattle farming has not been paid off since the beginning of the year. Payments have been stopped, payment of capital investments unfortunately of great importance. You know that capital investment is extremely important for the development of agricultural production. We should find the funds as much as possible. Is this in the new budget, why didn't you rebalance yourself and secure more funds? But what's being asked as a question is that you didn't give an answer if something in that part was hiding? Is it hiding in that part that incentives are paid large without small family economies getting incentives. We expect you to give a clear written reply in that part or oral one today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74997	Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74998	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives and Mr. Representative. I'll give you a very short answer. We work, and you know well because before me you were in the place where I am today that the system as set up unfortunately cannot be easily listed to get to these requested data, and at the same time the system was burdened by the input of data on reference yields and so on to be able to calculate the payments of incentives. And just by doing one job, we couldn't do another, but that doesn't mean that Mr. Pecek's respected representative won't get an answer. And as for the payment of incentives, they go according to their dynamics and they will be paid and there is no need to create a climate so that support is not paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u74999	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75000	Yeah, no air conditioning, Mr. Minister, so the incentives don't pay off. Ask people. They don't get the money and ask any of them they need to pay the loans, they need to give to their children. They don't have it now, because what you promised you didn't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75001	Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75002	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. I refer my question to the Minister of Family and Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor. In fact, we know that inadequate housing of Croatian defenders, wartime military disableds, members of their families, and all those killed during the Homeland War remain a major problem. I therefore give you a question which, by the dynamics of the Government or your ministry, solves the care of this group of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75003	Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75004	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, this is one of the perhaps biggest problems of care, the housing of Croatian wartime disabled and the families of the dead, imprisoned, missing Croatian defenders who, according to this 2005 law and according to previous laws, have the right to housing. But I think I can say and I'm really glad that we've been able to run a lot of things here too. So I'm going to tell you right away at the beginning one piece of information that I think is the best thing that says about it is that in this year, we've handed over the keys to 416 apartments to this day. Many of these apartments began to be built there in '98. For example, and here they didn't end. We managed to finish it, but at the same time I spoke about it several times and in the Croatian Parliament we had problems with removing shortcomings. Because of all this, the Ministry of Construction led by Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic has indeed made a tremendous effort. Among other things, a lot of money. I'll say in three years more than 33 million just to remove the defects. Of course, the applications went to the State's Attorney's Office, because there are certain actions in our opinion that must certainly end in the process, and I believe in the court as well. What I would also like to say about this solution to the problem is that at this point, 341 apartments are being built for Croatian wartime disabled and families of the dead, imprisoned and missing and also preparing to build more than 400 apartments in the territory of Croatia, that we face very often the problems associated with obligations under the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and, for example, the duty of units of local administration to find land for the construction, i.e. to repeat myself under the legal obligation to be involved in the care. Often, however, this is not the case, but there is no time for a wider elaborate. What I would also like to say is that, of course, we are dealing with the problems of care, housing, and the assignment of housing loans. Here's in this year's 457 loans to date. So that's the job. It was also launched since the government adopted the budget yesterday, i.e. debated, the budget for next year, I can say that as regards the Ministry of Family, Defence, and intergenerational solidarity that for the housing loans that go through our ministry, we have anticipated an increase in funding, and also this initiated dynamic in construction and, of course, the handover of apartments by the Ministry of Construction continues, and I am sure that by the end of the term of office we will record significant results in this area as well as in the overall care of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75005	Representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75006	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Here is your ministry's work, and I am convinced that a lot has been done and especially by your personal support for this group of Croatian citizens. I'm glad to hear that you've found some extra funds and that another 400 apartments are being built. I believe that units of local self-government will participate in this and recognise the needs of this group of Croatian citizens, and that the issue will be finally resolved soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75007	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75008	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government. I refer my question to Mr. Ivica Kira, Minister of the Interior. Here, the MUP is often given ineffectiveness in detecting the perpetrators of criminal offences. Unfortunately, here in this House we also hear the words that the police have been involved in some cases, that maltenes can do the job of a minister in the police, and we heard anyway what the police are doing. I am interested in what the Ministry of the Interior is doing to achieve a greater percentage of success in solving criminal offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75009	Minister Ivica Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75010	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Here, I'd like to answer this question first, and it's also about counseling before, the question before, and it's about police equipment. Today, the AFIS system begins to operate at the Ministry of the Interior. It's a system for identifying fingerprints and palms, because that system is one of the most modern in Europe and the last cry we say software technology in the world. I think only the FBI has a better system, but it is another software technology and comes up for reasons why I still have to mention that here as well as the Ministry of Internal Affairs but also as the Croatian people we can be proud that the beginner, means the one who came up with the idea of taking fingerprints, is Mr. Ivan Vučetić, for which he today also carries a name. This year it's going to be an anniversary, and I invite you all to join in, because I think it's one of the most important technologies in the discovery of crime used by all the world's police. What is very important is to say that today we have a main detection unit, a centre for criminal skills which is dislocated in 5 police administrations and that of the Police Administration in Istria, the Police Administration of Osijek-Baranja, the Police Administration of Primorje-goranska, the Police Administration of Split-Dalmatia and the Police Administration of Zagreb, which is tasked with filling the database with all those fingerprints in our files and allowing the police to detect the criminal offence in the shortest time possible. So if there's a crime that leaves papal lines that the police can automatically or manually identify the perpetrator in a very short time. What is very important, the database that is now here and the program goes through the SAGEM company which has also given the software program should be in a few months full and thus we will get even more efficiency from the Croatian police. But what is most important, this database that serves the Croatian police is not only for our purposes but also for the needs of other police, because we regularly exchange data with other police and thus show how important hi tech or information technology is in the Ministry of Interior not only in Croatia but also across countries. What I can say is that right now about 118 crimes have been identified where the papal lines remain, so, as far as AFIS is concerned, there will be as many disclosures as possible when AFIS starts. What is very important is that AFIS also identifies persons who are used with a false identity or more false identities, and most often it is about persons who have committed a crime in other countries, and when their fingerprints are excluded and the foreigners who are staying in our country. What are we talking about? Croatia has gone to AFIS for several reasons. The most important reason is that tens of millions of guests live in the tourist season in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there are among them and those who are sure tourism is not in the first place and we are thus protecting Croatian citizens, but also Croatian tourism from what is always followed by this tourism, which is precisely the criminals who are coming to carry out their activities in our country. What I can still say with satisfaction about this, today the Croatian police have a DNA database and we are among the first police in Europe to train the DNA database so that we can discover the perpetrators. Thanks to our DNA database, which we referred to in the beginning of the year in Strasbourg, more than 200 crimes have been resolved, which is why Croatia and the Croatian police have also received praise in letters as one of the best equipped police in this region, even in relation to countries that are old members of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75011	Representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75012	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for this exhaustive response. And I think we could hear here in this House, as well as the Croatian public that really the police are getting more and more capable of doing their hard work every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75013	Thank you. Now we're gonna take a break for 30 minutes. At 12:00, we'll proceed. It's MP Anto Djapic's turn. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue to ask questions of counsel. Dear Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75015	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The topic of war profit is being updated recently and various initiatives are being launched to sort of sanction this phenomenon in Croatian society. The concept of war profit is actually a corfial term for illegal and immoral wealth or for the acquisition of undeserved benefits in times of war using the war situation of the weaker functioning of the rule of law. When we talk about the Croatian practice of war profiting, different types of the same are meant. For example, arms smuggling, undeserved status, for example, of wartime military invalids, but the dominant perception of war profiting is the conversion and privatisation of social property spent in wartime. These were topics opened in the Croatian Assembly for years with various initiatives, which unfortunately did not produce any particular fruit. I would like to remind Mr. President of the Croatian Government that on 15 December 2005, the Croatian Parliament reached conclusions on sanctioning illegality in conversion and privatisation by accepting the proposal for the conclusion of the Croatian party of law. The results of the state audit findings are unequivocal for 1481 privatisation cases of 1556, where less or more illegalities have been identified. Unfortunately, the conclusions remained a dead letter on paper, since nothing was done after 11 months in the direction of annulment or partial annulment of illegal privatisations. That is why, and also related to the fact that the fact that war profits can be accounted for by existing legislation, but unfortunately there was no practice of judicial or willfulness, I ask the question in that domain of what falls under the Croatian government, when the government will begin to act on the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament in that part of the war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75016	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75017	Mr. Representative, I think this is one of the issues that everyone comes up to and in the debate in the Croatian Parliament on the agenda, but also in the Croatian public. But I'm personally in favour of the approach that you just said at the end of your question, which is an approach to the institutions of the rule of law doing their job. You're asking me when the government will start sanctioning these if I understand correctly, and irregularities in privatisation and conversion. Well, you and I both know that this is not the government's job. The Government's task is to propose legislation to the Croatian Parliament in all segments of social life and that the Croatian Parliament accepts or does not accept it as well as proposals from not only the Government but also parliamentary representatives and clubs. What's interesting to say is that I would mention it to you, too, and to all those who look at us. There is not a single legal vacuum that would allow anyone, who, in the 1990s or the first decade of this millennium, to conflict with the law in one way or another, does not have this vacuum that would become unsanitary if the institutions of the rule of law first of all the judiciary and I want to warn you that today not only in this case but also in some other cases, are simply mixed with responsibilities and competences. The executive power cannot, nor can the legislative authority sanction machinations in the conversion of privatisation. He can't. It's just not our job. And we also expect, I join your appeal, that the Croatian judiciary, those institutions and those state bodies that are in charge, do their job. But one piece of information. In September, about two months ago, we held a meeting of the state summit where the president of the Parliament, the president of the state, the resolution ministers and the attorney general, the state audit and all the other institutions that were, and we asked to be told how long the law on the revision of conversion and privatisation was extended in September to September, how many new audit requirements were received in the state institutions. You know what the answer was to the state institutions? Zero. Not a single one. I'm asking you why you, why someone third, eighth, X, Y, Jure, Stipe, Stef, didn't ask in that year for a review of the conversion and privatisation in some particular company, but we all talk, we take one general place, we make a myth, and then we argue with that bribe when we need it. Therefore, I am interested in why the rule of law, which is why the institutions of the third pillar of government in Croatia, and that is the rule of law, are not sanctioned in this regard. I'm just as interested in that as you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75018	Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75019	Mr. President, I am partly pleased with your answer, but I would like to remind you that point 8 of the government's conclusion is to create conditions in its domain for the implementation of Croatian Parliament's decisions. I will only remain on this 1481 case where it was established on the basis of a state audit of illegalities. So it's the fund that's supposed to press charges for illegal privatisation. So it is not that the government, the government, has the possibility that in its, I did not say for everything, but what the state's audit has established, the government should launch an initiative through the Fund to make something about it based on the decision of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75020	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75021	I'm asking the Prime Minister the question. The European Commission's progress report on Croatia says directly that Croatia must legally resolve the purchase of council mandates. The European Commission has been repeating to you what we have been saying for months, which is that buying council mandates is the worst form of political corruption, because this is about adopting power beyond the will of citizens shown in the elections. The trade contract by Minister Vukelic in Karlovac, which deals with such purchases by councilmen, shows that not only is Croatia corrupt but also who encourages corruption. In Sisak too, buying two councilmen won power. Citizens in the elections clearly say they do not want Pintaric to be mayor because he was their mayor so they know what he is. I don't know if you know what Pintaric is like, but he knows what you're like because he told you and your entire party, who, by the way, belongs to you that you're no good. You didn't owe him. You kept him in Sisak, held him silent. All right, your stuff, but since you've got to do a little bit of such a Pintaric, I'm asking you why the Sisko citizens have to do it. What did they do to you that they were so cruelly punished by one of the Pintars? You have announced the unfettered fight against corruption, the fight with the Pintarics and Vukelics is now being sought by the European Commission. I ask you, when will you show that you are serious, when will you disband the congregations in those units of local self-government where the government was won by the worst possible political corruption, by buying mandates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75022	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75023	Mr. Representative, come on, thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain this scene again from the Sisak government session. Namely, we are the first Croatian government to include in its practice government meetings outside, there were also past the government and Matešina, once or twice in office, but we are going to each county. We did it, so, with one constant practice, I think that's good. First of all, because it is a balanced development of all Croatian counties and we want to send a message to projects, and we come nowhere empty-handed, but we support projects that the representatives, mayors and mayors, regardless of any party, were involved, supported. So I called both the phone and the representative Vidovic who was not at the meeting even though it was common, regardless of party membership to come. He didn't come, I'm sorry he didn't come, and then he said on the phone and gave his interpretation that wasn't right. It would have been better if he had come and showed that, as I do, he cared about the progress of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County, not the party bickering. Pintaric was invited along with the head of the state office, the Office of State Administration and the mayor for the cabinet session, as we do everywhere. And at first they had a word and they said hello and said what they needed to say. When the session with the agenda started, then imagine someone sitting up on at the gallery as a guest and you here are having a debate in this House of the High and without the President of the Parliament giving him a word up, and he couldn't even give him a word because he didn't participate, that he would get involved in the debate and begin to pollemise with the MP. [[Intruder: At the gallery.]] That's what happened at the session. That the mayor, without asking for a word, began to pollute with the minister. And that's why I took away his word and told him if he continues to leave the government session like that because he's not there either. I therefore believe that neither Vidovic in one segment nor Pintaric in the other did well. When it comes to corruption and bribery, I call on you, truly, truly, let's make a consensus because there is no consensus, you will not sell it to anyone, nor will anyone in Croatia, and I will be the first fighter against such an approach that you promote, unfortunately. Political crime, organised crime, bribery and corruption have a political omen. They don't, Mr. Representative. They have ethical omens, not political ones. He's not a criminal because he's a member of the SDP, but because he's a dishonest man or an unethical man. And I think we should rise above that. And that's why I always answer to you and Jurevic the same way all the time. Let's all go together as it exists because it's not HDZ or SDP or HSP, if it needs any other parties in particular, HNS, etc., it's not them, it's people who have a name and responsibility for it. Therefore, you cannot stegmatize any party, there is no collective responsibility. If a person has committed a misdemeanor, he must answer by name and last name, and he cannot speak of a party regardless of what it is. And that's why, as Prime Minister, I appeal to you, I know we're entering a pre-election year, but your election won't be until November. In a year. So you'll get tired. Let us begin working with us to bring this evil of modern democracy, bribery and corruption, which is not only in Croatia but also in other European countries, to contain it together. This is where I call you to a national consensus as we have in the case of the European Union. But with that, you won't get far, you're going to stegmatize the party, any party, and you're going to get away with it. So these days we've witnessed one of the biggest corruption scandals from your party. But I'm not saying it's because it's a member of the SDP or his wife. No, I think it's a man, but it has to be proven first and everything, and it has nothing to do with the party's belongings. And you mentioned the European Commission report. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has given a broader picture. I'll tell you something. Yes, there are criticisms in there, there are challenges in there for both the government and the Parliament. And to us as executive and legislative authority. We solved our problems. I think that I share your opinion, that these open questions, that these challenges, that these critical points that are ahead of us for the next months and years together we solve, if we want not only to join the European Union but if we want to create society first, create a country where all its citizens will feel good, have a perspective and see their future. That's our goal. Therefore, I am personally satisfied with the European Commission's report. I think that's good in all the chapters. They were made from 1 to 35 is visible progress, but there are also open questions, there are challenges we will face.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75024	Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75025	Mr. Prime Minister, you don't have to call the opposition to consensus because you have this consensus. That the purchase of council mandates is sanctioned. That's what the opposition wants from you, and that's what the opposition expects of you. To disband the council through the State Administration Office where the government was seized past the will of the citizens by buying councilmen. To prove that what you're saying is true, tomorrow tell Mr. Palaric to do so and you'll act credible. Not only in front of me, not only in front of the Croatian public, but also in front of the European Commission, which also invites you to deal with this evil which is the worst form of political corruption, where the will of citizens is derrogated and where the bribe of money comes to power. Do it, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75026	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75027	Here's the Honorable Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Kirin. We've noticed that he was the most senior minister so far, so far we've mostly boasted, and now we're supposed to land. Here, Mr. Minister, question, is Croatia safe country? In the last two months, there's been 10 bombings and a few executions. Here's enough to mention the Pasalic case, the police tap in place, the case... From Poreč, that's why I'm asking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Police tap in place,... Lošinj's lawyer, the police have no knowledge, several explosions in Rijeka, monuments from II are being remined. World War I, prisons have drugs as well as on the street, prisoners gentlemen walk in prisons with guns. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 17 cars were burned in Dalmatia in January this year. In only four cases, the police have discovered the perpetrator. There's more and more drugs. From 1.1. to 31.9. if it is to believe Mr. President to today's Globe, from 1.1. to 31.9 this year 824 cars were stolen, they were shot as if during no time of Homeland but II. World War I. Police statistics gentlemen are talking about reducing crimes. I don't even care about her because she's the same among other things as a product of police negativity, although I am not clearly reducing the complexity of some of the procedures that the minister was saying that criminals from neighbouring countries on the orders of domestic crime miles are executing mines, liquidations and the like. However, Ministers, is Croatia a safe country and when it will be announced who, for example, dropped the bomb on Pasalić, who planted it? ... It's not Bosko Buha. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who planted or planted the bomb under Ed Kosa's car, liquidated a lawyer in Losinj, who planted bombs under vehicles, monuments and the like?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75028	Now you can ask one question, there's not one question here, but there's a whole basket of questions. Minister, go ahead. Answer one question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75029	I am glad that you have asked one of the problems that the Croatian state has been meeting lately, but I would also ask you a question, I would have loved to have seen you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75030	Don't ask the representative a question, you answer the question not to ask the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75031	I would be glad if we had been to the government session and then with the citizens of Istria we had just cleared up the problems that are burdened by the Istrian County, as well as all the administrations and all the counties in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. As far as I'm concerned, the Croatian Ministry is a very safe country, and you can only take a percentage of the crime against the number of inhabitants... The states and you'll see... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the perception of the security of citizens depends on cases that were once more media-accompanied, sometimes less. Now, you've seen the last murder that was committed in the Okucani, the perpetrator was arrested very quickly. There are some things we can't influence as police, and it's the police who only come when a crime is committed. But I also call on all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, parliamentarians, all political parties to help us together, especially in cases of local character, which were just like planting an explosion to deliver quality information to the nearest police administrations or directly to the directorship to help us discover the motive. Often times it isn't enough just to find the perpetrator because the perpetrator, any perpetrator who wants to commit a crime before that, does everything to avoid being found. It's an eternal fight between police and crime, and according to what I'm saying, it's the fact that the police solved the murders over the last year and that happened 10 years ago. Also, the police can only arrest someone based on evidence. So we need to make sure that this person committed a crime and that there's evidence behind it. On the basis of the indications to bring citizens in just to satisfy the form of the public, it is not possible because behind us there are laws and rules that Croatian police must follow. It is also my wish as well as yours as Minister of Interior and a member of the Government of Croatia that all these crimes you have counted will be resolved as soon as possible because in this way and the security of the citizens will be greater, and how much security I think the last tourist season has shown where millions of foreign tourists have come to Croatia and they have told them about the safety of Croatia and I hope that such security will remain and that thanks to the work of the Croatian police, the tourist season next year will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75032	Thank you. Representative Damir Cain. Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75033	... The presidency of the Croatian Parliament, and in the afternoon at four o'clock, the Committee on Internal Policy, which, meanwhile, was cancelled, was therefore not able to be in two places. [[Specially enabled.]] However, I fear Croatia is an insecure state. The case you're talking about just confirms that thesis, I don't blame the police, you drink coffee, and someone just cuts you off with a burst out of the machine. The police are ineffective, Mr. Minister. It is effective, however, when it comes to it, for example. They rob a mother-in-law from the head of the Rijeka police and then the case is resolved in two or three days, but when an explosive is planted under the car of this or that solution, the minister simply doesn't have one. This thing about the hair case, that's why I said and I ask this question, I know you hired yourself,... I'm interested in Mr. Benk and the involvement of the Istrian police, and I know it happened to him because he didn't want the public interest to be subordinated to anyone's private interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there were explosions, murders, and we're more or less fooling ourselves with statistics. I'm afraid if something radical doesn't happen at this point, if it doesn't stop at the end of that crime, it'll only escalate in a few months, and unfortunately it won't shrink, and then it'll be a matter of the tourist season that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75034	Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75035	Thank you. My question is to Mr. Ljubic, and this is what it says. Do you know about around 118 thousand people over 65 years of age living in the Republic of Croatia, of which about 58 thousand have no income sources, and half of them receive only social assistance? Since the SDP referred to the Proposal of the Social Pensions Act before last year, which could improve the material and social situation of our third-age citizens, I ask you, do you also think of how to resolve this issue and to ensure at least a slightly more profitable age for that group of our citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75036	State Secretary Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75037	Mr. President, Madam Representative. This question you asked Minister Ljubicic, I can tell you that the Ministry of Health and Social Care carried out detailed analyses since it had to be made and that the Ministry of Health and Social Care is the holder of a memorandum on social inclusion, which is a condition for access to the European Union. The memorandum on social inclusion also mentions age 65 plus as one of the vulnerable groups. Therefore, the Memorandum of Social Inclusion will be resolved in this way when the Government accepts it and when it is signed with the European Union, or European Commissioner Dr Špidl. He will have action plans involving all ministries, all institutions. Therefore, when it will come into effect, then you will be able to see exactly how the Republic of Croatia will resolve the issue. I must also say that now that there have been a lot of words about this in Finland while Finland has chaired the European Union, it is also trying to make all the members of the European Union and those who are candidates for entry into the European Union to adapt so-called. The European social model and we will include it. I don't really have time to tell you right now, but we can describe the situation in writing because the Memorandum of Social Inclusion contains... - so pages and action plans aren't over yet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75038	Thank you, Secretary of State. I have to say, I'm not happy because your words this group of citizens can't put on bread, they can't pay for drugs, and they can't be warmed up this winter. And they expect a solution from the Croatian state, not the European community. As usual from this government, a lot of nice words, unfulfilled promises and a few tears and solutions, real solutions to the problem anywhere and until further notice. I want to remind all of us that this age group lives now and not in the future. Now, like all of us. And they need to be taken care of as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75039	Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75040	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian politics or rather Croatian parliamentary political parties have made a major political, almost historical step. And that is to achieve a consensus common to the idea of the European Union, the idea of joining NATO, and that is something that the Croatian and international public both welcomed. It salutes, of course, the HSS because from the very beginning he's been acting like one. Of course, we have held that this unity and such consensus should be built in certain other common objectives which are, in fact, the content of this idea of entering both the European Union and NATO. And in that sense, we held that for every government, building this community is a prerequisite for creating a positive framework both in Croatia and outside. Those topics, common topics that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have had, the HSS has launched in the Croatian Parliament since the activation of the ecological and fishing zone that is necessary not only for the start of fisheries negotiations but also for stopping illegal fish fishing but also for the destruction of flora and fauna. Second. We launched an initiative to strengthen Croatian production capacities. In other words, we encourage the domestic economy to stop this extremely large import of everything in Croatia and to oppose it with our own knowledge and technology. Third. We asked for the protection of certain forms that led to a major outflow of the value of real estate in Croatia. To make a very strict stand towards agricultural land, to bring together a platform of agrarian policy as a basis for negotiations. Also, our President Friscic often said and called for a reasonable debate on CEFTA how many pluses we have, how many minuses we have and how to put Croatia into this question. It is my question, Mr. President, whether you are holding and whether you believe that given not only for the sake of the negotiations but also for the sake of our own community that is necessary and that Croatian citizens expect, are you ready, and that you have said about some of these common topics that you will support it to do so within one period that would allow uninterrupted negotiations but also reduce the resistance of our citizens who are absolutely asking that this joint consensus framework as regards these political and economic issues continue and that we get one more affirmative approach and not that there is a lagging in one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75041	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75042	Mr. Representative. Thank you for this question. You're knocking on the open door at my place. As president of the Croatian government, I have just introduced the practice of inviting party champions to the government for talks. I must tell you that at a time when I was the leader of the strongest opposition party in Croatia, there was no such practice in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, if anyone introduced that practice into Croatian political life, it was this government. I am glad and I am grateful to all the party champions who answer the call and when to discuss these important topics. So we've recently had a meeting here on the subject that you mentioned and ZERP how we're going to coordinate it and we've reached an agreement of all those present. Not all of them were presidents, most of them were party presidents, and we later consulted the president of the HSP who agreed with it, the representative of HSLS, but he was a representative of the SDP, he was the president of the HNS, he was the president of HSS, IDS, HSS, not all of them. So, we agreed on how to go into solving ZERP. And we unanimously reached those conclusions. In these conclusions I am pleased to inform you today, Croatian diplomacy is already working. We said that we would consult both the Commission and the Member States of the European Union and we have about this consensus, about ZERP, how to protect, how to apply the principle of non-discrimination and how, above all, to Croatian fishermen, because they are in a more awkward position today and how to zone the Adriatic, just to preserve both wealth and flora and fauna. And in this sense you have our not only willingness but we also call for this and support the HSP that first went and the HSS that you also went into animation and the public and sensitizing of the public on that topic. But I have to tell you at CEFTA. There's obviously some misunderstandings or noise in communication. Otherwise, with the president of your party, I have a strong relationship, we communicate regularly. So there's no reason for that noise to be. CEFTA was our proposal just as a counterproposal, please, as a counterproposal to the countries so-called. The Western Balkans unites in... A union and make their own free zone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We came up with the counter-proposal to go into the expansion of CEFTA in which they were then, a year ago, when I put it only Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania. Negotiations in Brussels have been completed today, and I can inform you of one. If it was your fear, I'll take it away today. We did not give in or give in to anyone, either Bosnia and Herzegovina or Serbia insisting that they have special status when it comes to agricultural products in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Serbia about oil and tobacco. And that was our firm position, was Secretary of State Pejcinović-Burić and Secretary of State Vrankovic who led the Croatian delegation and that was ours. CEFTA cannot be created into which Moldova is involved and my proposal and our proposal is to include Ukraine and I think it is the chance of a Croatian economy but not a way for someone to have special status and have special privileges. We have an agreement that your government, the former government signed with Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Serbia and that agreement, we are not leaving. It's our position, and if I can answer you, I'd be happy to. But therefore, there is no discount but we will have very firm arguments that all the countries that will be in the CEFTA free trade zone tomorrow must have the same status and in that sense that is our final position.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75043	Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75044	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, it's a good thing all the doors are open, but it's not good if these open doors make the door blow. What do I want to say? It would be good if we all agree on everything or if these common topics that have national value are acceptable to you to try to solve them as soon as possible. The issue of declaring the fishing-environment belt is the issue of this Parliament's decision and no one else's. Therefore, we here have to have that argument by the start of the fisheries negotiations, that tool in our hands to be credible but strong in the negotiations. Secondly, the question of real estate is something that burdens us all, not only agricultural land but also the most attractive resources that we must simply protect all together and it must be a Croatian consensus as well as in the fight against corruption and there must be this consensus here. The question of CEFTA is a question that is always open. You've given good information that contributes to the fact that it can be good. However, the consensus must be shared by both political parties and by what is most important to citizens. Therefore, there is missing information and there is one great fear of Croatian villages, a Croatian country that has become accustomed to all reforms that are being made and are not exactly in its favour and therefore it is quite justified that this fear exists. The issue of creating strong Croatian production capacities in Croatia is something as important as entering the European Union from an economic perspective. Therefore, we ourselves must create it. No one will create strong production capacities for Croatia unless Croatia does. But there too, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, we should understand each other more and be better results for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75045	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75046	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I've been asking concrete questions every time, I've received promising answers and the realization has lagged behind. Today I'm going to ask a completely different question. Surely you agree with me that the conversion and privatisation was evil, that the immoral wealth of some generals is also evil, that war profit is evil, interest rate, interest rate, greenery is also evil. Corruption is a huge evil, and I'm not counting any further. However, here I must remind you that this is all the work that the HDZ has done in the process of failing. I ask you both as president of the HDZ and as prime minister, will you apologize?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75047	As party president?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75048	And the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75049	No, you can only ask him as Prime Minister. As party president, you know that can't be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75050	Then as prime minister. Will you apologize to Croatian citizens for the evil that HDZ has done or made possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75051	It's a question for the party president. You can't ask the party's president to apologize because something the party allegedly did or didn't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75052	Mr. President, that would be so... Will you apologize to Croatian citizens for all the evil that HDZ has done? [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75053	No, thank you very much. Enough. Thank you. Prime Minister, here you go, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75054	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75055	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75056	Mr. Representative, I'm sorry that you are subject to this SDP approach to misdemeanor acts, crime by political omens, being characterized. That's not true. Those times are over. It's been a while since politics, and you're part of politics just like me, said you all who don't think like the Communist Party of Yugoslavia are not real. You can't do that. Those times are over. Today is the time of democracy in which every unholy act and dishonesty has its own author, name and last name, and it must answer, not the party, not yours, not mine, not anyone else's. But I'll also tell you about party responsibility. I believe that neither you nor I were invited to talk about what HDZ did, what it did to HNS, SDP, HSP etc., about which they were invited to speak Croatian voters and they were '99. On 3 January 2000, they made it clear that they are sending the HDZ government into opposition for the time being and that they want a new government in Croatia. And we're looking at it. I now speak as prime minister here, but of course I cannot apostrophe myself as party president. And as the new president of the party in the spring of 2000, when I was elected in April, I knew that we had to pull out of this conjecture and that the policy that was led in that segment where the citizens said, "You can't be anymore and we're sending you into opposition."that we must change. And we did it and restored the credibility of Croatia to the democratic community and restored the voter's trust and therefore we won exactly three years ago, here's another day and we'll celebrate it and hopefully also Anticipate the victory by the year. Therefore, I appeal to leave this to the voters who is what they are and what they are doing. If these were HDZ errors in the second half or 1990s but let me say that what HDZ did based on voter confidence in the three elections of the 1990s achieved at the head of the Croatian state that we are proud of it. And if viewed by the political successes of one party, then the larger party in Croatian history has no more than the Croatian Democratic Union. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75057	Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75058	Thank you, Mr. President. I should say I'm very happy with your answer, but I'm not. Me in the SDP, too. President, I'd like you to calm them down. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75060	The SDP, I also resent that there has been a lot of failure. And he didn't sanction what he needed. And I asked you for both action and failures. And this story and this call for a consensus to fight corruption. What do you need a consensus for? You're the government, you need to do it. What consensus do you need to fight corruption? Who's to say I'm gonna shut myself up? What are we talking about? That's your job. It's yours. [[The intruders don't understand.]] That's your job and trust me, citizens have punished that corruption perception index by leaving the government. [["Peace"! Order!]] Now it's exactly the same, it's going to be the same. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75061	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75062	Mr. President, just for a little while, considering that...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75063	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75064	No, no, no, not the answer, but I just have to get out, go to an economist's counseling in Opatija and no more questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75065	I know that, it's you. Shime Luchin, here you go. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75066	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have assigned my question to Minister Ljubicic, and since he is gone, the secretary of state can answer that question for me. So about 10 days ago, more precisely last week in Trogir, elections were held for local committees. So for the council of local committees. Not for the city, not for the county, not for the state. In Drvenik Mali, it is a local committee, an island, a pardon to Drvenik the Great in the trig aquarium of activists, or a HDZ member, who shared the trust and votes of voters before that election with 300 kuna. So I think that's actually the point, and I believe the perception of the general public, at least it was seen from the media that it was pure political corruption. However, HDZ tried to justify, or justify, that gesture. So they didn't say they didn't do it because there are witnesses, statements. They tried to justify it in a way that they said it was a common holiday, social, humanitarian aid to those living below a social, social minimum. I personally, and I believe all the citizens were touched, touched, to tears touched by that attention of the HDZ. My question actually, before I say so, I would like to point out that according to these criteria that the HDZ in Trogir shared social assistance, so these are the pensioners who have pensions below thousands and 500 kuna. They're the ones who are on the welfare center list, who are getting help. So in Croatia of those, there are therefore one pensioner is 330 I think a few thousand, and over 65 years old who do not receive or receive some form of social assistance has about 118 thousand. My question to you is: will you and all the other social cases in the party register provide and provide social assistance? I wonder if there's any in the Ministry of Records. So, let me just finish one sentence. [[Intruder: Timed out]] So help not to get a double. [[Intruder: Finish within the deadline.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75067	Me, the secretary of state, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75068	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Representative, as regards the assistance for the maintenance or all the assistance that is shared from the portfolio of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare there is an accurate record, and whether the assistance is provided by the county or local community or by the municipalities or by some other, or by the associations, that party, that the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare does not keep records. And precisely because it often happens that different approaches to different municipalities and different counties are we think that we should unite and that we should make a list of all the social rights used in other institutions and not just in the state institution. Therefore, I can only answer the question of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. And I can also send you our monthly statistics, and then you'll see exactly how many cases there are? I can say for the last case, and that's September, that's until September 10th. There was help in maintaining a thousand, 113 thousand. So, I'm gonna take the chance to warn you because in your program as much as we read in the SDP, you said there were 250 grand, so please correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75069	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75070	Well, actually, a phenomenon, a phenomenon, you didn't either understand me or you deliberately avoided the answer. I didn't mention county, I didn't mention local and regional self-government units. I mentioned a political party. In a civilized world, it is a practice for political parties to assist membershipist donations. And to realize their policy towards the citizens when they get the chance and come to power. Nowhere in the world does political parties work for you as criminal institutions. And you as the Ministry, the Resort Ministry should have that record. Because what exactly is going on? If some receive such party assistance while also receiving assistance from the state and others unfortunately do not get any from the state or from the political party. And after all, that's not even a big deal to you. I did the math. Three great holidays is about 450 million kuna. Imagine how much even the government deficit could show less that this, that it would actually be realized all together. I fully agree with the Prime Minister. No collective responsibility for corruption But there is an individual responsibility. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75071	Thank you. Time's up. Kresimir Cosic. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Time's up. Dear representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75072	A question for Minister Vukelic. The issues concerning energy future and energy security are among the most important security issues of the modern world and therefore are not without reason at the heart of political and strategic discussions not only in the European Union, the United States but also in many other countries. There are indeed many reasons to do so in Croatia. Given its geographical location, Croatia should be one of the major European energy corridors. By building the North Adriatic... the terminal as well as the signing of an inter-state agreement on the construction of the Pan-European pipeline of Trieste and the merger of the main European bus pipeline within the so-called "Trist". “Nabuko project” Croatia should ensure its strategic positioning within an integrated European energy space and ensure its energy future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, however, in the European energy policy area, there are many inter-competitive and even mutually opposed energy projects and interests. The European Union wants to minimise its energy dependence on Russian oil sources by forcing Caspian energy sources. At the same time, each of the individual Member States of the European Union is independently seeking individual solutions that are very often opposed to common European interests. I stress in such an environment only timely strategic political decisions Croatia must avoid all those options that can lead to a strategic position in the European energy space. Croatian positioning in the European energy space is certainly one of the priorities of this Croatian government. Can you tell the honourable Mr Minister what the Ministry of Economy is doing today so that the Republic of Croatia can be better positioned in the European Energy Area while at the same time harmonising its energy strategy with the strategic objectives of the European Union but also with its individual national objectives. In this context, can you comment on your recent talks with the US Minister of Energy during Prime Minister Sanader's visit to President Bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75073	Thank you. Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75074	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Well, I could answer this very briefly to this question that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as a resolute ministry when it comes to the energy sector strictly implements a clear, defined strategy and policy of this Croatian government when it comes to the development of the energy sector in Croatia and its positioning and in achieving the basic objectives that are important for each country. The question of energy today is that I think we are all aware because one of the top issues, of the priority issues of every country, Europe and the world. So, what are the strategic goals it is clear - to ensure sufficient amounts of energy, to have independence. This is primarily seen from the position of supply routes of certain types of energy and clearly have as many domestic energy sources as possible because it is in a clear way then and one additional security when it comes to using energy, the energy needs that are in Croatia and this should be said on this occasion by the greater and growth of energy consumption in Croatia is twice as fast as it is in the countries of Europe. It is clear because we are in a process of faster economic development, development and standard of life for citizens. Therefore, and greater need for all forms of energy. What I can say on this journey very successfully where I was a member of the delegation with Dr. Sanader was a very good conversation with the Minister of Energy of the United States Mr. Bodman and we received confirmation of the correctness of the strategy that the Croatian Government is conducting when it comes to energy. And there may be a brief reminder of everything we really need in three basic segments of energy we have done and what this government makes very concrete and operational measures and results. If we talk about the oil sector, oil derivatives then you mentioned a very important project in which Croatia is a very active participant, which from Constanta towards, therefore, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia goes to Trieste. An oil pipeline that should supply practically northern Europe, as well as an oil pipeline that should solve the problem and numerous tankers that come into our seas to supply oil to Europe, an oil pipeline that should also solve another source of oil supply, Croatia and our refineries. Not only Russian, but also Caspian region. So this is one of the very important strategic projects in which Croatia participates and which is not only a Croatian project, but also a European project, I would dare say and therefore a global project. When we talk about the oil sector then we should mention and start modernising our refineries, which is a very important thing when we talk about the capacity of our domestic oil processing and oil production. What is important to mention when we talk about the gas sector I think it is clear that it is a very great intensity of the works on the gasification of Croatia and the construction of the Master's gas pipelines, but also intense talks on the merger to the future Nabucco pipeline that will supply oil again from the Caspian region, from other sources not with Russian oil. So, a new source but also a new supply direction energy terminal and I have to say there have been a lot of conversations with Minister Bodman because America has a dozen energy terminals, a lot of experience in that, and it's been supported. We have said I would be able to use all these experiences in building and such energy terminals on our sea which will therefore certainly and thus create an independent picture when it comes to gas supply, given that we do not have enough gas in Croatia. And even if we are talking about the electricity sector and here we should say here yesterday the construction of the first hydro power plant has been opened or started since this independent sovereign Croatian state hydropower plant Lejesce. So it's the beginning of construction in fact of our domestic power sources in the next ten years or something less should be built somewhere around 1200 megawatts. That means 25% of how much power we have now. It should also be said when I speak to the international position of Croatia that Croatia is part of Europe's energy system when it comes to electricity, that the large project of Ernestin's 400kg of volt is actually connected between Central and Southeast Europe. It is the largest synchronic energy market in the world with 450 million inhabitants, etc. etc. The power lines to Hungary, according to Italy, are also projected. So, Croatia is indeed, when it comes to energy, respected vice president, the intersection of energy routes and all this government that has done in this very positioning of Croatia, which means a good, secure situation for supplying energy to all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75075	Thank you. Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75076	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your reply. I certainly believe that you will agree that the energy future of the Republic of Croatia and the energy security of the long-term Republic of Croatia is a topic that deserves our special attention. I'd like to say special attention to the Croatian public. I would take the opportunity and suggest that, with your support, with the support of the Croatian Government, with the support of your Ministry in the Croatian Parliament, when it is appropriate to organise an international conference that would be exclusively dedicated to energy future and energy security issues of the Republic of Croatia. I think the Parliament as the center of the political life of the Republic of Croatia is the place to be used to pay attention to this important topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75077	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice President and members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I am asking the parliamentary question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Branko Vukelic. Croatian textile giant Varteks Varteks lived a transition period in independent Croatia as well as most companies in the textile industry. The problems with the exchange rate, production, sales, retail network, especially with the unfavourable loans, have brought this company to the brink of survival. Unlike the previous coalition government, the current government of Prime Minister Sanader approved Vartex's 140m kuna guarantee so that, with some other measures, the government of Vartex began to consolidate in a business sense. Mr. Minister, recently when you visited Vartex Management, you were fully informed about the state of the company. Please answer me what you have done to help Vartex, what is the current state of business of Vartex and what you intend to do to mention other companies in Croatia, the textile brand as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75079	Minister of Economy Vukelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a respected parliamentary representative, I had a really pleasant, pleasant opportunity and stay in Vartex after these measures that Croatia must have taken to help in some way consolidate the financial and restructuring of the large strongest companies, companies when it comes to the textile industry. You said yourself, this government clearly took a different position than the previous one. No, so the previous one, in a way, put the textiles into some kind of unspective branch. For me and for this ministry and for this government, that's not the case. There should be a chance and support for all those who will clearly become competitive in the textile industry, who will be able to place their production on a demanding market, both European and globally. Vartex is one of the largest companies with 3 and a half thousand employees, with a high turnover that has exceeded 300 million kuna over 9 months this year, with over 50% exports, and exports to the country, mostly in Europe, so on a very demanding market. What this ministry has proposed, the government adopted, on this already, and there has been some speech today is a three-year subsidy programme, support for the textile industry, but in terms of investment in technology, establishing the market, in education and education of people, in abandoning what we have in our textile industry today is quite significant, so these are business breakdowns and moving on to our own products that our own brands are. And this is exactly what I'm saying because I saw it as the biggest company in Vartex that this is the way he's gone and that he's already doing concrete very successful results. If you look at it financially, then by 9 months this year compared to last year, 15 million kuna has been reduced, and 15 million is better business. In nine months last year about 16 million kuna losses. In nine months this year under half a million kuna with the prospect of ending a business year without loss. So, very concrete results. Also in the programme, the Versace programme has been abandoned and broken into complete jobs, has increased exports to both Sweden and Germany, so to the European Union, has increased exports to our neighbouring countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, etc. So obviously the direction is a trend that supports and helps this Croatian government with its financial support projects. And that's what encourages this big company, the biggest in the textile industry, not only will it be lonely, that other companies in the sector will follow. We and this year have 20 million kunas, so just like last year to support the textile industry. Last year, Vartex received slightly less than 5 million kuna support. This year, in the coming days, there will be distributions and funds will be re-separated, I believe by all criteria and Vartex meets these criteria, it will also receive this year's support. We are going to support it next year and I believe that we can expect from our textile industry the successful survival of all these difficult years and that we have also survived not only Croatia but also the European Union with cheap labour and cheap products from the east, from China and that it can therefore find its place on the demanding market of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75081	Thank you. Honorable representative Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75082	Thank you very much, Minister. I asked about the government's guarantee because in the previous term there were guarantees like we remember that went into the wind. This guarantee was obviously affected and fully justified and I thank him once again. But I believe that Vartex, with these and these kind of support measures, will eventually be consolidated and that, with good management by the management, there will finally be something more in the workers' envelopes, i.e. that workers' salaries in business Vartex will be far higher because at this point I remind below 50% of the state average. Anyway, thanks and I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75083	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75084	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my question: Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Branko Vukelic. Dear Mr. Minister, addressing the problem of unemployment and increasing employment skills are priorities and objectives of this government. Already the usual opposition at all levels criticises the achievement of these goals. But the figures and statistics are inexorably talking about reducing the unemployment rate and increasing the number of employees. What I am interested in today are the effects of measures taken to encourage employment. We know that at the beginning of the year, an annual employment promotion plan has been adopted, starting a new cycle of active employment policy measures. Accordingly, my question is what are the effects and results of the implementation of the annual employment plan in 2006? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75085	Minister of Economy, Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, respected parliamentary MPs, I think that, and on this issue, it could be a very short answer because all policies directed towards employment and through this National Employment Action Plan and the annual programme that we are bringing together and through a series of economic measures can only be drawn up in that statistics that you mentioned. And this statistics suggests that this programme as well as a series of other measures implemented by the Croatian government results. So we're below 13% today with unemployment rates, 12.3 or 5. We have a constant trend and employment growth. So we had the lowest number of unemployed this year. So, I think that's the basic thing that can satisfy us and encourage us to be on our way. For the first time since this year, the National Employment Action Plan is different from what we had before, in line not only with the directives, or I would say the guidelines for employment policy in other European Union countries, but also with the need to concentrate on those people who are trying to get to work and who need real help. So they're young people who finish schools and colleges and they're older people, so in years when they're harder, they find and get to work. So these measures are aimed at these very categories of people and the results that we have for the first nine months could be assessed well and that is a trend that is good. The truth of these measures is implemented by all ministries through the national employment action plan, so not only the Ministry of Economy, not only the Croatian Employment Institute, but also the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Agriculture, so all the ministries that through their programmes and projects or requalification or promotion of the establishment of crafts, cooperatives, either by encouraging the construction of family hotels actually open up the possibility and space for employment. What I could specifically mention as figures is that if we look at it by September 2006, then we can say that the programme, the annual programme of activities based on the national employment action plan, has entered 3 000 71 persons from the unemployment records, that 2.5 000 are employed, that some of the fewer than a thousand people have been involved in the education programme, but it is too much of this material and I'm afraid that they would not be able to read everything in numbers, which is the results and what results through the public works that we have introduced as an incentive for employment, through repeating the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship, through the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, through the programme of fostering self-employment, retraining, etc. etc. The figures show that this is a programme that delivers good results, and what this confirms at last is growing employment, an increasing percentage and the number of employees and the increasing unemployment in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75087	Thank you. Dear representative Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75088	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. Here is your response to confirm statistics on increased employment in line with the government's measures to encourage employment. I am sure that even today, continuous control, implementation of measures at all levels, especially in the offices of the Croatian Employment Service, as well as promotion of measures will contribute to a further positive trend of employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75089	Thank you. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75090	Mr. Vice President, I'm asking the Minister of Pensions. I suppose it will be Mr. Vukelic, although we don't hear him very often about the issue. Mr. Minister, there isn't nearly a day, so here we are at this session today not to mention the problem of new pensioners. The problem's on record, you know what he's getting himself into. The fact is that pensions are so-called pensions. New pensioners last month amounted to 1.562.00 kuna and those of 2,093,00 kuna. The difference between old and new is also known as it came into existence. It was created as a consequence of the fact that the former government with two laws increased pensions of old pensioners by 400,00 kuna, those 100,00 kuna and 6% and our law on 20... However, the fact remains that, besides these pensions, they are indeed such that they do not guarantee social security, the elemental social security of these people, that we also have inadmissible proportions. [[You don't understand.]] The president of the Croatian government made it clear on several occasions that there is a will to solve the problem, but he says we don't know how. I'd like to inform you that we know how now. The procedure has been sent a law guaranteeing an enforceable, fair, effective and financially acceptable solution in any case. I'm curious, since we don't know how the problem is solved, will you accept it no matter what the bill that SDP sent to the procedure. It has been verified by the finest and made by the most excellent experts in the pension system in Croatia and with the consultation of international experts. Will you accept that law or not solve that problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75091	Thank you. Minister of Economy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, honourable parliamentary representative, I think that's what you said yourself, the Prime Minister has made it clear on several occasions that the problem of new pensioners is known, that this problem should be solved and that this government will solve it. So there's a way and a model how. Every proposal is welcome. Any proposal in this direction that will first of all provide a fair solution for new pensioners who are actually now going to retire with significantly lower pensions than they did in previous years, any proposal that will not, above all, endanger Croatia's financial stability and normal functioning when we look at both the budget and everything that needs to be, will certainly be seriously considered and accepted. But I just want to say one thing. The law whether it will be accepted, so I can't speak, but I can say that the Prime Minister has also appointed a working group headed by Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, which includes social partners, including the Retired Party as a party representing the interests of the pensioners themselves. So this problem is being approached very studioly and seriously. The solutions that are, are wanted and are there, so I'm not saying they're not there, surely they're going to be brought in, and that these people who are actually leaving today with a significantly lower pension, are going to make a model that will in some way financially bring them into that position where other people who, by other criteria, could retire. Therefore, every initiative, regardless of who, which is in the direction of resolving it, is welcome, but as this government led by the HDZ, has found a solution for what is not the previous government and none before when it comes to debt repayment to pensioners, will also find solutions for new pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75093	Thank you. Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75094	I might be satisfied with the answer if he was given three years ago. At the end of the term of office, with the fact that there is no June in the budget for next year to solve this problem, I cannot be satisfied with the answer that a working group is forming that does something. The problem is solved. The problem is financially sound. It costs a billion and 360 million kuna. An increase of 10 billion in next year is quite enough, I warn you, it's 1.2% of the budget. We're solving the problem, and it's possible to find a way of funding not to endanger anything in this country and to solve the problem right now. There's no reason to wait any longer because we have knowledge, it seems to me that we have no political will. It seems to me that we have no political will because we can no longer be satisfied with the formation of working groups for this and what, by the fact that these working groups have been promised on several occasions for several years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75095	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking Minister Vukelic. According to data from the State Statistics Institute in the first nine months of this year, we exported $15.7 billion worth of goods at the same time, while exporting only $7.4 billion at the same time. So the stock deficit is $8.3 billion, and the coverage is actually imports below 46.9%. In this term of office of your government, there has been a decline in both social gross products and industrial production compared to earlier developments, and for the next year, GDP growth is only 4.5%, which I find insufficient. This year we will also achieve a record foreign trade deficit. In the elections, you promised to launch Croatia in the election campaign. I primarily thought it was the launch of a Croatian economy, and in this most significant segment we actually achieved a setback. I'm asking you, are you aware that the import-stimulating policy is ruining domestic production, that this is how you spend hard-earned foreign exchanges of exporters. We also heard something through questions about the status of textiles that are actually large exporters. And that through imports is actually increasing external debt. Are you planning to develop an import substitution and export stimulation programme to mitigate this enormous trade gap?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75097	Minister of Economy Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75098	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well respected parliamentary MPs, I am well aware that what you are saying is destroying, therefore, one serious economic perspective of Croatia's development. Unfortunately, the trend in the stimulation of imports came from your government, and you should have asked that question in your government's term of office. Then, because the door to import and philosophy is really open, I will not mention a colleague of the predecessors, there were more of them in the ministry's portfolio during your government which changed as on the tape, which actually turned politics, neglecting industrial or production in general in Croatia and actually trade as a trade sector that is very important. And that's what I'm saying here, I'm not against traders and trade, but what's important for Croatia and it's just about turning towards production, according to industrial production, because it's the stability of the economic development and stability of each country's economy. And that's why this government has been repeating, repeating and concrete measures since the very beginning, and I as a resolute minister. Here, today I was also talking about textiles, we could talk about the wood industry at the Ministry of Agriculture, we could talk about a series of activities we are doing to strengthen Croatian companies, Croatian production because it is a prerequisite for exports. Exports do not have a strong Croatian industry, whether it's a meditative one, whether it's a shipbuilding that needs to be rescheduled, whether it's a textile industry, etc., etc. So I could absolutely now talk about a number of macroeconomic and other indicators that are in favour of good economic growth and the development of the situation in Croatia. It can't please anyone but you, I believe, trust neither statistics nor anything that we can read from independent experts in Croatia. So, about the trend and the decline in unemployment, the growth of employment, the growth of industrial production, the growth of gross domestic product, the reduction of debt, the reduction of the country's deficit. So I'm not going to talk about it, but I certainly absolutely support your thesis that you're talking about, which is that exports are very important. That exports without strong manufacturers in Croatia are not available whether products and services are in question, and that is why what is being intensively prepared and there has already been talk and the public, and soon it will see a bright day in the form of a proposal for the Croatian government and a special focus is placed in one strategy. We called it the "Work and Export Offensive Croatian" strategy, all those in Croatia who deal in this way with the economy, from the Chamber of Economic, crafts, Association of Employers, Association of Exporters, to make one system of measures that will try to eliminate, above all, all those negativity that the previous Government has made in terms of production and that will give the right system of measures and incentives. Organized from economic diplomacy to all institutions in Croatia that deal with the economy in order to train, compete with the Croatian economy and in order to strengthen the market performance that we can read now, more and more here and the story of Vartex,... and these exports of Croatian producers, Croatian large companies, are growing more and more every day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75099	Thank you. Dear representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75100	It is already common for us to receive such answers on parliamentary matters. When there's no result, it's the former government's fault, and this one's been in office for three years. Now these days, it's gonna be three years old. In those three years, none of the so-called so-called "supervised" were made. economic infrastructure, as well as incentives to go, are actually grants to those who do bad business, not grants, or stimulating those who do good business and export. What are the results of the employment, in increasing the number of employees? Well, Mr. Wolfellic, I read the statistics. In early 2004, we had about a thousand, a million 430 thousand employees. In September of this year, a million 446 thousand 887. So in three years of your term, you've managed to hire a little less than 5,000 new employees, largely in the administration of the state. Unemployment was 304 thousand in early 2004, and now we're at 290,000. So it's reduced by only 14 grand. These are the results...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75102	These are the results of your government's three-year work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75103	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75104	I thank Mr. Vice President and I refer my question to Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta, Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Mr. Minister, time is going by very fast. I am still very much alive in memory of presentations of the fast road idea project Zagreb, the Hungarian border, which was the 90th in Križevci organized by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, Mr. Andrija Mohorovic of the deceased, who was born Križevčanin and where certain actions followed. And with the addition of the road from Vrbovac to Virovitica we went to the project so-called. A prigorje ipsilon that will make it much worse, improve, apologize. Therefore, significantly improve road transport standards in northwestern Croatia. So I'm curious, because I know that here to Helena was put into the stock market, that it's working alive, that we witness daily, that further road from Helena to Cugovec. So I'm interested in a concrete answer. What, at what rate and order will happen on the road section from Cugovec towards Križevci and Koprivnica, at the same time towards Virovitica? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75105	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. We talked about this subject a few days ago and in Koprivnica, and we asked that same question there. Now the vice-president of the Croatian government, Mr Polancec, said, will operate in one direction, one meter in the other direction. Namely, I'd like to say the following. This fast road Vrbovec-Gradac is being built, it will be finished, in a set released in the summer of next year and it is an investment somewhere around 350 million kuna. Part of that road can already be driven. Furthermore, according to Koprivnica and Virovitica, one leg will be further separated and the programme is such and the funds are provided for such dynamics that one leg and another leg are constructed parallelly. So also on the section Gradec-Križevci-Koprivnica and on the section Gradec-Bjelovar-Virovica. So there's not one direction to the other that has no priority but it's going to be built parallelly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75107	Here you go. Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75108	I am pleased with the answer, and I hope that this pace of obtaining the documentation will be accelerated and that the road will be physically placed on the market, at least start to build in the term of this government and thank you for your concern for this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75109	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75110	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I refer my question to the minister of the family, the defender and the intergenerational solidarity. Recently, we have been reading from the inscription, and it is also said about, but with different interpretations of the results of the recruitment of Croatian defenders. So I'm giving you my question to tell us how the development of the defense cooperative is going and to tell us about the results of the defense attorney's employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75111	Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The results may be best told by the data and I'll have it right here at the beginning of the answer to your representative's question and say. In less than 3 years, since some projects were actually designed from the beginning we have employed through several employment programs about or better said already already over 5,000 Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders because it is so-called. the target group for which the programmes are prepared. I'm personally estimating the very cooperative program that you're talking about, which you're interested in. You have probably read something about the second Croatian defenders' cooperative fair recently held in Split. The event was very important where the co-operatives from 115 Croatian defence cooperatives presented themselves, so today we have 115 Croatian defenders' cooperatives from all over Croatia that we support in different ways. One way is for those cooperatives who naturally meet the criteria to receive and support the ministry at the beginning of 150 thousand kuna, however, this support from the Croatian Defence Ministry is just beginning. So it was an excellent presentation of everything Croatian defenders do in Split. Among other things, they're heading towards exports, so I'm going to say one convenient piece of information that they're exporting, for example. and soy in Japan which I think is such an interesting thing to say about how interested they are in work, in production, and how successful they are in it. At this fair of cooperatives we also had a round table where we discussed all the possibilities of further promotion of cooperatives, we also brought some very concrete proposals that are of course being touched by other ministries, Mr. Vukelić mentioned employment projects where, in some projects, of course, we are together on the basis of a joint agreement and I think that the cooperative has a future, but also other employment measures in our ministry such as professional training for an unknown self-employment employer, crediting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, but also support for individual projects where we also provide financial support to those projects, i.e. those employers who want to hire Croatian defenders and repeat children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. I'll finish with the cooperative information. About 2 thousand 700 cooperatives at this point with a trend of growth. In this year we will support 33 cooperatives in cash, in the next quite certainly much more because we have increased the money for employment in general in the budget for the following year with an additional 5 million kuna so that only to be employed through the Croatian Defence Ministry in the following year we will separate 40 million kunas because I repeat this is one of the best ways, so the employment of Croatian defenders, when we talk about the care of Croatian defenders, but on the other hand it helps to solve the extremely painful issue, and that is the problem of Croatian defenders who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder, unfortunately very often come to the edge of endurance and precisely examples of employment of those defenders who have given great results. Here I was, two weeks ago, involved in the harvest of olives in a association of Croatian defenders not far from Sibenik. Great results, people feel naturally confident again, and that is one of the best ways we can help them. So here, I thank you for that question, and we're going with new projects next year to hire a defender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75113	Thank you. Dear Representative Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75114	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Surely this is for all praise to your ministry and to you at the head of the ministry, as well as to the Croatian government. Surely when you have presented all this information on the care of the defenders that shows all these inscriptions that have been in the media lately, and it is said on the ground incorrect and that the comments certainly do not stand that the cooperative and employment of the defenders is not well implemented and that this is not carried out and that your reasoning is the basis and destroys all these inscriptions. I congratulate you once again because I also have a lot of contact with the defence cooperatives of the City of Zagreb that have 10, but I must mention that the defense cooperatives of agriculture in the City of Zagreb face the problem, precisely the problem that the City of Zagreb is bypassing and not involved in this particular project of the Ministry of the Family and the defenders for the defence population in Croatia, and I hope that the City of Zagreb will understand and will thus be involved in the improvement of the defender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75115	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75116	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister with members of the government. My question is to Mr. Minister Ivica Kirina, Minister of the Interior. The effective work of our police requires the trust of citizens and mutual communication between police officers and the entire public. All this makes a significant contribution to reducing the crime rate. Please, what are you doing in that direction?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75117	Secretary of the Interior Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75118	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative. Here's your question. As it is little known to the Croatian public because it usually... The media on something quite loud, but when it comes to Croatian police successes, they can say that Croatian police today with their projects, especially "Police in the Community" received an assessment of the OSCE mission in Croatia as well as an assessment of the OSCE's main office in Vienna, which is marked as the best and most successful model of police enforcement in the community in the entire region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have also received positive assessments from all international experts and today I am proud to sit at the head of such a ministry that simply we can present our knowledge of police work in the community to other police throughout the region. Of course, I inherited the job from my predecessors who made the most of their efforts to bring the Croatian police closer to those of the citizens. What am I saying that for? Today's debates also showed media today how difficult it is to fight every country against drug dealers, against narcotics and everyone else. But one of the quality things that can be prevented is not only this form of crime but also all the other forms of crime is that we quality-edit police officers, send them to their hometowns because they know their neighbors best, and that people can first and foremost turn to a neighborhood cop as a human. In accordance with this, 16 courses were conducted from 24 March 2003 to 15 May 2006 for a total of 955 employees, of which 799 police officers and 156 police officers at the Police Academy in Zagreb, in the area of all 20 police administrations and 139 police stations are now making 691 contacts between police officers and 52 police officers for prevention. Of course, the model we started is being developed through several projects. And that's the promotion and development of criminal prevention, so you were participants that we opened in 3 counties over the last year, so in 3 capitals in... , in the City of Zagreb, in Varazdin and Bjelovar Centre for Prevention where citizens can come, report certain things, that they do not have to come to police administration and where they can get adequate answers to protect their property and themselves personally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, police through the Centre for Prevention, which will open in other interested cities, are in Sisak, receiving information about what is happening on the ground. So not only from police officers, but from the citizens themselves. Also through the third project that we started, it is called a municipal prevention organisation where, together with local self-government, there are signs of community prevention councils where we are simply solving current problems in certain cities. Because the specificity of certain cities is different, and in each city we have to approach with a certain method. And what's most important. These are public relations, and I can now say here in front of the esteemed House that Croatian police are intensively educated daily to communicate better with citizens, to get closer to citizens and in cooperation with citizens and solve the most serious crimes but also those crimes that happen most often on weekends, which is a distraction of public order and peace, the work of night spots. But not only that, but also traffic prevention where we are witnessing that we have a large number of traffic accidents, which unfortunately involve young road users between 18 and 24 years of age. And that's what common means, the whole society is involved in the security of citizens in that area. What is also very important is that the Ministry of the Interior will educate all existing officials, regardless of what they are working on, through the capacities of the Police Academy in Zagreb, to achieve another high level of implementation, especially in the use of the latest knowledge and technology, and thus to meet citizens so that citizens do not have to wait in unnecessary lines in front of the counters. But also, we could do a quality check on your information.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75120	Therefore, Croatian police today can proudly say that the work of police officers is among the first in the region, that we use the best means and experiences, and we hope that in this way we will reduce the costs of the system itself and thus justify money from taxpayers of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75121	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75122	Thank you. The "Police in the Community" project certainly proved successful and precisely because of this establishment of trust between police and citizens' contacts. Under the circumstances, Vukovar was one of the cities where it started, so I was a witness to it and I'm saying it produced extraordinary results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75123	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75124	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Mr. Vukelic. It's about BrodoSplit. We've recently read in "Free Dalmatia" that they've launched proceedings against the former management of "BrodoSplit". There are tens of them, hundreds of millions that the former administration allegedly did badly. The question is, what would you as a minister have done at the time? What else can be done now, and I am very sorry that Mr. Jurevic is not here. He keeps mentioning the current administration and we are concerned in fact the situation in the shipyards and Split and Trogir because they are important for the development of Croatian shipbuilding and the economy, especially in the development of the Split-Dalmatia County economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75125	Minister Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, MP. I'm sure we all need to worry about the situation in all the shipyards. Not only in Split, trogirical but also in Rijeka, but also in "Olinik" and in all these shipyards, Croatia is aware of how important and important for not only the preservation of jobs tens of thousands of directly employed people but also for the general economic development and for this export that we have talked about today. However, regarding this information you're talking about, that is, about an ongoing investigation and suspicion of 260. That amount of millions of kunas mentioned by former administrations and possible criminal acts that will show whether or not this is the case. I think you should look into the context of any administration. So what I was saying about this administration, which in some ways is often referred to as $6 million in question and being investigated. I think you should, and I've talked about it often before, say any administration at any time of any government if there are doubts that anything has seemed illegal should be investigated. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Jurjevic who has often mentioned these several months these 6 million and calling me directly as Minister and Chairman of the Supervisory Board and is now very quiet and silent about these 260 million kunas. I think we should both have the same treatment. If there is a crime to be investigated, the competent institutions should take whatever it takes and sanction the blames. This crime is possible and any other person does not really have a political omen or SDP for some time former administrations or current HDZ times but has a person, and if there is a need to punish and sanction him because Croatian shipbuilding is too important for Croatia and for people who work to play small political games around it or that even through the mechanisms of condemnation and judgment as it was said, I must say, from the mouth of the rightful parliamentary representative, Mr Jurjevic, in the past times, condemn and condemn immediately as it was the former time and bear that actually politics determines, condemns and condemns immediately who is guilty. So, let the institutions do their job but what I want to say here is here for you Assembly deputies has taken a number of measures through the restructuring programme that we are preparing and which should finally be completed and agreed with the European Union by the end of the third month, but above all because of ourselves, so it is adopted in the Government. A series of measures have been taken to find out in some ways and to find out even better about the situation that is in all shipyards... The audit of the nine-month business is requested for all shipbuilding sites of Croatia by an expert consultant who prepares the restructuring programme and the methods and models of control and control of all the processes in the shipyards and, above all, the procurement of work with the cooperatives etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we don't want to leave anything to chance or wait for the completion of the restructuring programme but politicizing and political games and points, getting on such flat-rate ratings that are sometimes heard from the ranks of the SPD, above all, I don't think they're good if we want to be together in the fight against crime, corruption, then we ask that we also insist that everything is explored wherever it is mentioned and wherever it is suspected of the smallest thing, and let those who are found to be truly responsible respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75127	Thank you. Honorable representative of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75128	This is exactly the kind of approach Mr. Minister is satisfactory for all of us because we really are and we need to be focused on all kinds of development and shipbuilding sites and economies, only in this way can we increase the number of employees and thus see how many state institutions work both the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Interior and our Police Administration of Split-Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75129	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will refer my question to Ms. Marina Matulović-Dropulić and it is related to the gasification of Croatia. I ask the question because in the last few days, Mr. Cacic, who is now visiting Croatia and is already in the pre-election campaign and some SDP MPs, Mr. Linic and Mr. Ljubo Jurcic, said that this government has done nothing at the gasification of Croatia. My knowledge that are accurate and true was made this year almost 500 kilometers of gas pipelines, which is totaling how many previous 30 years. And I'm sorry that these gentlemen who entered the pre-election campaign are obviously false, noting the truth by saying that nothing has been done to gasse Croatia. And I'd like the minister to tell us what's been done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75131	Thank you. Minister Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, clearly that's not true. However, these gentlemen may still think they are in 2002 or 2003 when they adopted a gasification programme for Croatia in August 2002 and nothing was done until the beginning of 2004. After that, complete project documentation was made, all building permits were obtained at the end of 2005 and the key moment I think we should talk about is 25 October 2005 when our government decided to speed up all works on the gasification of Croatia. And lucky for you, it's been done a hell of a lot. Exactly what you're saying is that about 500km of gas pipelines have been built in Croatia and as you know, the largest gas pipeline investment Pula-Karlovac plus a complete pipeline from the platform to Vodnjan, so for the first time in Croatia, our gas will flow across our pipes and not more that it will enter Croatia via Italy. That event is going to happen, he's on probation. The next Wednesday is the opening of that great pipeline, and along with I say complete and sub-sea work and everything that has been done on it. After that it is working on a pipeline that will be very soon completed by the Lucko-Ivanja River, then the gas pipeline Zagreb-Eastok – Kutina, Kutina-Slavonski Brod which you know we also launched in August this year. And the work has been accelerated and the works on the Belisce-Osjek pipeline and Bolman-Beli Manastir started. For all of this we have made documentation for these final papers that I was just talking about. And not only that, but the building permits. For this second and useful permits have been issued. The total investment made this year is a billion and 600 million kuna. In the next period until 2010, because we are cutting deadlines for Croatia's gasification will be invested close to 3.5 billion kuna and the pipeline in Dalmatia will be operated, so an environmental impact study has already been commissioned for the pipeline through Lika and Split, and a project study has been done from Split via Dubrovnik to the border with Montenegro. Therefore, we want the gas to flow all over Croatia, and regardless of what in that 2002 programme in Dalmatia, gas was not planned at all, we are now proposing and predicting that this gas will be made. I must say that we really must commend all those who have worked on this job because such a big job, such a big investment in Croatia has never been made. And those who speak the opposite well know what it's about, but clearly they want to blur the eyes of people who think they can't read and can't watch TV so they can't see what's really going on here. So we should commend them all, and especially our company "Plinacro" which has made the most of it with all its people and with all its workers so that these pipelines are finished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75133	Thank you. Dear Representative Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75134	Thank you very much. I thank the minister for this answer, and I would like to point out here. I asked this question to see how people who say they want to be Prime Ministers, so the prime ministers, will go, for a year will work in how they tell the truth, deceive the public so that they can win points or reduce the merits of this government and these ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75135	Thank you. And the last question, distinguished representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am asking the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. It is related to the livestock problem, i.e. to curbing the gray market. Dear Mr. State Secretary, the operational programme for the construction of dairy stables is progressing quite well both throughout the country and in the Bjelovar-Bilogor County. The number of heroes in the tova as well as all other cattle in which Bjelovar-Bilogor County predicates is increasing equally successfully. However, what they told me in the conversation themselves means, as well as money incentives, is to curb illegal trade in cattle and, unfortunately, in my county too, there have been a lot of cases of illegal trade in cattle. The fact is, this government has done a lot on the plan to stop the cattle smuggling. I'd dare say she'd done more than any government that's had a chance to deal with this problem, but in public, it still gets the impression that the action to combat illegal livestock traffic has slowed down a little bit, that they've fallen a bit. Or it's the wrong impression. So I'd like to know what are the concrete results of stock smuggling actions? What's the current situation? Do those actions run? Will they continue? And what I particularly care about is the consequences for smugglers or those who break the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75137	Thank you. State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I would just like to confirm in this answer that we already have one continuous and very significant increase in agricultural production. This is primarily to read from the increase of the multi-year increase in incentives by all production structures. But also according to the external trade balance, we have recorded an increase in agricultural and food exports of more than 28% over the last year as imports grow at a rate of 12 to 13%. So if we look at the 2003 period to date, the coverage of imports by exports from 40% increased to 60%. But it's also the only increase in production that's followed up with the gray economy. For us, the grey economy is not only important for those who unfairly trade and question the market for those who pay taxes and legitimate business and trade but it is also important for this reason to pay to the State of Tax but is, above all, important for the protection of our consumers and their safety. Because the assumption is that something that is not in the legal system of trade is questionable whether it is also the system of veterinary health supervision. In this sense, a number of actions were carried out, including in the marketing of fruit and vegetables, flour, grape smugglers and so on. However, these measures are not being implemented as individual actions, as separate actions, but continuously as part of the government's grey market suppression programme. One of the biggest problems is right about cattle smuggling, and we also spent a few actions together with the Ministry of the Interior. So with their help. Where the market was prevented and about 200 pieces of cattle of unknown origin were taken away. A large number of cattle were taken away by surveillance of fairs, road transport, slaughterhouses and the like. Many tons of meat of different categories and species have been seized. In this regard, too, about 40 criminal and 15 criminal charges have been raised in this regard and against participants and also against those who are in the state system, i.e. veterinarians, authorised veterinary cells that have blessed them. We believe that a significant blow has been inflicted on both shoppers and shoppers and smugglers and the best indicator that it speaks of is that within only 6 months of the last 6 months, the legal slaughter in slaughterhouses has increased by 46%. It therefore speaks of the importance of this problem but also of the success of the action. Also, public perception may be different and media interest may be somewhat less than for those first actions, but these, with these actions, we haven't stopped at curbing the gray economy. They're still running. And here, and right now as we talk about this problem in this High House somewhere on the borders of your Bjelovar-Bilogor County, there's a shipment in this area under surveillance, and that, it's about illegal livestock collection and trust these smugglers won't go well. It is important for us in the future to establish this register of cattle carriers. So you know exactly who can do this job. We will also ensure, as in fisheries, that this satellite tracking is made possible and we believe that this will reduce this illegal trade and for the purposes of this kind of action will be no more.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75139	Thank you. Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75140	... So I thank you for your comprehensive response. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] I hope that these actions will continue because it is really important to introduce order on the market and ban illegal, illegal trade in cattle. Of course, the most damages of all are those who work legally. That they have great damage to our consumers who did not know what kind of food they were eating. But we also protect the state budget, and thus the standard of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75141	Okay. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Vice President, the Ministers and the Secretary of State. Continuing is at 3pm with the point report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75142	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It's on the agenda. Report Mandatory Immunity Commission (a) Confirmation of the decision of the Mandatory Immunity Commission on the granting of authorisation for the detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas of MPs in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek, addressed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. b) Confirmation of the decision of the Mandating Immunity Commission on the granting of approval for the detention of Branimir Glavas of MPs in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the County Court's investigative judge in Zagreb Zdenko Posavac. c) Confirmation of the decision of the Mandating Immunity Commission on the granting of authorisation for the detention of Branimir Glavas of MPs in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. The mandate of the Immunity Commission has provided those decisions for confirmation. I ask the President of the Mandatory Immunity Commission of Mr Damir Sesvecan to take his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75143	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm asking you on behalf of the HSS Club to pause for a minute so we can manifest ourselves before we start discussing an important matter before it starts. Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75144	What's this about? Can you do it in five minutes and I have to give you ten. In a minute, can you? Okay. What? ... We don't know. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It hasn't even started the agenda after the president of the Immunity Commission, please? ... And for what? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And what are the reasons? There's no reason for that. You'll get your 10 minutes after... The sitting on this item of the agenda will begin in ten minutes. Are you ready? On behalf of the HSS Club, representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Why did we ask for a word on behalf of the club before we started the debate? Well, that's exactly why we shouldn't discuss this before we get the grounds for discussion. Here with the agenda point we have received the only decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and nothing more. We didn't even get a record from that commission. What are we going to decide? Because I remind you that the Mandate-Immunity Commission is proposing to the Parliament a decision on the immunity of MPs, and when the Parliament does not decide on immunity, the decision must subsequently be confirmed by the Parliament. I'm asking you on what basis are we going to confirm this decision? Which material do we have in addition to this agenda point? Nothing. We have a decision from the Mandate-Immunity Commission that says, "The Mandate-Immunity Commission has made a decision after the debate has been held by the majority of the votes.". Based on what? What's the matter? What are the material evidence to give me we don't know that. We can only read in the report of the Committee, given that the documents submitted in response to the request are an integral part of the case file of the County Court in Zagreb, etc. So the Mandate-Immunity Commission had documents when it decided. And those of us who need to strengthen that decision, we who need to confirm it have no documents, at least we here at the HSS Club have no documents. They wouldn't want to deal with investigative journalism, they wouldn't want to discuss it based on articles in the media and in the press. I suggest we postpone the hearing until we get the material evidence based on which the commission has made its decision. And secondly, I'm asking a question because this legal vacuum is unknown to me. We have an HSS club, and it happens to us for the first time whether or not Agent Glavas was invited to this session, because he's being tried here. Did he get the call?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75147	Mr. Representative, in a decision delivered by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, there is an explanation why, that decision has been made. And since the Mandate-Immunity Commission is the authority of this House to say so, then I guess we trust that they have examined these reasons in detail. And here it is merely cited because of a reasonable suspicion of committing a crime of war against the civilian population referred to in Article 120. Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. We're not here to question whether something is true or not. We are here to bring and confirm or not confirm the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. So I hereby give my word to the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to explain, that is, to present here his proposals to the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75148	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I will read the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to grant authorisation for the detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, at the 30th session held on 23 October 2006, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia held a request from the County of State Attorney in Osijek on 21 October 2006 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 22 October 2006, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against Mr Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of suspicion that he committed a criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1). Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. How Mr Branimir Glavas is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the end of its parliamentary term of office of a decision approving the detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs can only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. The Commission called the meeting on the basis of Article 75. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek, through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, requested approval to be detained in accordance with Article 102(2) and (4). Law on criminal proceedings and the initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Antun Kwakan, deputy chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, also attended the session. Committee meetings were part attended by representatives Pero Kovacevic, Slaven Letica and Ivo Lončar. In view of the fact that the documents submitted in the application are an integral part of the County Court’s investigation file in Osijek, the Committee is, on a proposal from the County State Attorney’s Office in Osijek, in accordance with Article 255 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure decided to hold a session without public presence. The broad debate which followed highlighted the importance of the severity of the criminal offence committed, in particular the provisions of Article 102(1) and (4) thereof. The law on criminal proceedings and the need for hastening to make a decision on the request in question. It was also held that not all previous actions were carried out necessary in order to approach decision-making on the basis of the requested request. The mandate-immunity commission has assessed that there are no obstacles to the abolition of immunity to Representative Glavas. The mandate-immunity committee shall, after the debate has been held, by a majority vote of 5 for, one abstention shall decide, which shall therefore be determined that there are no constitutional legal reasons set out in Article 75(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the application of the Institute of Representative Immunity and within the meaning of Article 75(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be approved for the detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas at the request of the State Attorney's Office in Osijek, addressed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, on the grounds of reasonable suspicion of the committing of a criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120. Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. Explanation. The Commission decided to grant authorisation for the detention and initiating of criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek on the grounds of reasonable suspicion of the committing of a criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1). The basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia since it is a criminal offence for which the commission has taken the view that it will propose the abolition of immunity to MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75149	All three.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75150	Okay. The following is therefore the report on the request of an investigative judge of the County Court in Zagreb for the authorisation of the detention of Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. At the 20th session held on 23 October 2006, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of an investigative judge of the County Court in Zagreb for the authorisation of the detention of Branimir Glavas in the Croatian Parliament of 23 October 2006 and at the 31st session held on 26 October 2006, the repeated request of the Court of County for the authorisation of the detention of Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament of 25 October 2006 on the grounds of a reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1). Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. As Mr Branimir Glavas, representative at the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the end of its parliamentary term of office of a decision approving the detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs can only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. The Commission called the meeting on the basis of Article 75(5). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of County of Zagreb, requested approval for the detention of Branimir Glavas of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, within the meaning of Article 102(2). The law on criminal proceedings. Mr. Antun Kwakan, deputy chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, also attended the session. The Committee's seats were also attended by representatives of Mr. Mato Arlović, Ivan Drmić, Pero Kovacevic, Dr. The famous Letica and Mr. Vladimir Šišljagić and representative Ivo Lončar. In view of the fact that the documents submitted in the application are an integral part of the case file of the County Court in Zagreb, the Commission is in accordance with Article 255. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 6 for and one against, decided to hold a session without public presence. In the general discussion which followed, the different interpretations of the provisions of Article 23(2) have been made. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament concerning the acquisition of conditions for detention of representatives in relation to Article 75(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Different views on giving prior consent have been represented in the debate. One point is on the need for the Croatian Parliament's consent before making a decision on detention, and the other holds the right position to grant the Croatian Parliament's approval after the decision on detention has been made. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on criminal proceedings, the investigating judge, adopted a decision on detention when the investigation is under way, taking into account that the Croatian Parliament has taken a decision to grant authorisation for the conduct of the criminal proceedings on 10 May 2006 and the different views in the interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in relation to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Commission has assessed equally valuable both interpretations with the emphasis that detention cannot be carried out without the approval of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The mandate-immunity committee has assessed that there are no obstacles to granting approval to the detention of Agent Branimir Glavas. The mandate-immunity commission, after the debate was held by the majority of votes, 6 for and one against, has reached a decision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be approved for the detention of Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the County Court of Zagreb investigative judge Zdenka Posavac, of 25 October 2006 requesting authorisation for the detention of Branimir Glavas pursuant to Article 102(2). The law on criminal proceedings on reasonable suspicion of committing a criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1). Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. Reason: The Committee decided to grant approval for the detention of Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the Court of County of Zagreb's investigative judge for the reasonable suspicion of committing a criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1). The basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia since it is a criminal offence for which the Commission has taken the view that it will propose the abolition of immunity to MPs. And we still have the third report of the Mandate Commission, so the report on the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to grant approval for the detention of Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. At the 31st session held on 26 October 2006, the Court of Justice's request in Zagreb of 25 October 2006 was addressed by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the Privilege of Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable suspicion of the crimes committed by the war crimes against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1). Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. How Mr Branimir Glavas is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, having immunity until the end of its parliamentary term, a decision approving the detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against lawmakers can only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. The Commission called the meeting on the basis of Article 75(5). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, requested approval for the detention of Branimir Glavas of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, within the meaning of Article 102(1) point 4. The law on criminal proceedings. Mr. Antun Kwakan, deputy chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, also attended the session. Representatives Mato Arlović, Ivan Drmić, Pero Kovacevic, Dr. Glorious Letica, mr. Vladimir Šišljagić and Ivo Lončar. In view of the fact that the documents submitted in response to the request are an integral part of the case file of the County Court in Zagreb, the Committee is, on a proposal from the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, in accordance with Article 255. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, mostly votes 6 for and 1 against, decided to hold a session without public presence. Introductory Deputy Attorney General met the members of the Committee on Fundamentality and Needs to submit the request in question so that, on the basis of the consent granted for detention from the Croatian Parliament, a request could be sent to the investigating judge for detention. Dispute opinions on the decision to grant authorisation for detention at the request of the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb were held in the following debate. It has been pointed out that it is evident that in front of the County Court in Zagreb, an investigation is under way against Branimir Glavas for the existence of a reasonable suspicion of the committing of the war crimes referred to in Article 120(1). Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, it emphasises the entry into force of new difficult circumstances during the criminal proceedings which justify the submission of a request for authorisation for detention within the meaning of Article 102(1) point (b) of Article 4(1). The law on criminal proceedings and the need for hastening to make a decision on the request in question. The mandated Immunity Commission has assessed that there are no obstacles to granting approval for the detention of Agent Branimir Glavas. The mandated immunity commission, after the debate was held, by majority vote 5 for and 1 against and 1 abstention, made a decision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be approved for the detention of Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, referred to by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 25 October 2006, requesting authorisation for the detention of Branimir Glavas, in accordance with Article 102(1), paragraph 4. The Code of Criminal Procedure, on grounds of suspicion of committing a criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1). Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. Reason: The Committee decided to grant approval for the detention of Branimir Glavas, a representative at the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, addressed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia on grounds of reasonable suspicion of committing a criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1). The basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia, since it is a criminal offence for which the Commission has taken the view that it will propose the abolition of immunity to MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75151	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75152	Well, it's more of a correction, but it can hurt because it's an article 214. While the President of the Mandate Immunity Commission read in particular this approval of Judge Posavec, he did so clumsyly and when he listed who was present at the session, and counted that we were, and that is true, Mr Vlado Jukić, Mr Pero Kovacevic, Mr Slaven Letica and I then turned out to be also voting on the distance of journalists from the hall. That's not true. We've advocated the opposite. To keep the press in and out of immunity. We did not vote or have the right to vote because we are not members of the Mandate Immunity Commission. Well, so that it doesn't remain unclear, here's why I called and I'm asking you to take this into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75153	Thank you very much. Taken to the knowledge, the public... So you weren't involved. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative and President of the Croatian Parliament, Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75154	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today, in front of this House, we will discuss reports of the Executive Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament concerning the granting of authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings and the detention of representatives of Branimir Glavas. First and foremost, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I will say the following. The Croatian Democratic Community's club is most decisively removing the the thesis and claims made during the debate, not in this House, but in public, that it is the launch of these criminal proceedings in a consumer relationship with the action of the legislative and executive authorities. Neither legislative nor executive authority has initiated these proceedings. They were initiated by the autonomous action of the judicial authority and the independent judicial authorities of the State Attorney's Office. We are removing the thesis on the mounted political process, therefore, the the thesis under which it was claimed in the section of the public that this procedure and this procedure were to be initiated against Agent Branimir Glavas for the reasons of political retribution and for the matter, that it was staged, mounted court proceedings. In relation to the proposals made in the report of the Mandate Commission. With regard to the proposal for a decision of the Mandate Commission proposing that the Croatian Parliament give its approval for the initiation of a criminal procedure at the request of the County State Attorney in Osijek, it is a matter of what is collokually referred to as the criminal offences related to the summary title "Slotep", which is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports and accepts the decision of the Mandatarian Immunity Commission to grant approval for the initiation and conduct of the criminal proceedings at the request of the State Attorney's Office in the County State's Attorney in Osijek, in respect of this procedure. Secondly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports and accepts the position and proposal of the Mandate of the Immunity Commission to grant, at the request of an investigative judge of the Zagreb County Court, the approval for the detention of representatives Branimir Glavas as regards those detention grounds relating to the fear of being free to influence witnesses. So that's where we support the Mandate Commission's decision. Witnesses in this process are being heard, and soon the vast majority of the remaining should be heard in 10 days. Thirdly, the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club does not support the decision of the Mandate Immunity Commission to grant approval at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek for determining detention for the detention of Representative Branimir Glavas before the proceedings to be conducted in the investigation proceedings against Branimir Glavas for what is referred to as the "selotep" case. Fourthly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community maintains that it will not support the decision of the Mandate of the Immunity Commission on the granting of an authorisation for the detention of Representative Branimir Glavas in connection with the resolution of the Zagreb County Court's investigative judge on the grounds of detention relating to point 4. to the severity of the criminal offence. What are the reasons for the position of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community to express a different view than the position of the Mandate of the Immunity Commission on the granting of an authorisation for detention after the ruling of the County Court of Zagreb's District Court for the purpose of the detention grounds of the severity of the criminal offence. First of all, I would say that as regards the work and the Mandatory Commission, that the HDZ Representatives Club holds that the correct Mandatory Commission, in very delicate circumstances, ended certain legal doubts, carried out its work, its tasks, and the reasons why we hold that it is not necessary and that is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and proposed in a written conclusion, the proposal for a decision not to accept the decision of the Mandating Commission for the determination of detention on the basis of the severity of the criminal act by the County Court of Justice in Zagreb concerning a case called "the garage case" because we have come to new information, new data and new facts which indicate that it has a lot of grounds and reason not to accept this proposal by the Zagreb County Court of Justice. These reasons are reflected in the fact that we have found that the case law is uneven, that there are therefore sighting cases of inequality of the court's practice code and in connection with the determination of detention, and in connection with the crime of war crimes against the civilian population. In particular, in the County Court of Osijek, the County Court of Osijek is facing criminal proceedings against eight persons indicted and partially inadmissible convicted, unlawfully for the crime of war crimes against the civilian population. It is six members of the para-Serb military militia terrorist troops and two Croats are members of the same other Croatian military formations. Both of them, in all these cases, were indicted for war crimes against the civilian population, according to which the defendants were detained, after a court hearing had been suspended, he was sentenced to certain time sentences for two, three and more years, and the detention was then suspended and they were released to defend themselves from freedom because the State's Attorney General had filed charges of punishment for those crimes, demanding a stricter sentence than a higher court finding, but the court there abolished detention so that these accused and unlawfully convicted defences were released from freedom. In other cases, part of the defendants charged with war crimes against the civilian population who are under trial are being sued from their homes, and are being tried for war crimes against the civilian population. These are ladies and gentlemen MPs, it is the key reasons why this unequal practice is why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community holds that and Agent Branimir Glavas himself, that he should not be in custody and for the conduct of these proceedings because it is visible and obvious that they are not in the custody of those who are both accused, and those who are convicted of inadmissible decisions, judgments for war crimes against the civilian population. In the particular case of this representative, therefore, it is only the stage of the investigation. It is a far lower degree of probability or justification for committing a criminal offence than in the case of these other persons who are far greater than likely because they are also accused because they are also unlawfully convicted of a criminal offence against the civilian population. That would therefore be a key and essential reason why we hold that it should be possible for detention not to be determined in these two cases. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional provision on everyone's innocence should also be taken into account as long as he is in charge and determined by a judicial verdict. It shall also be the responsibility of the Court of Justice to establish and investigate, in a specific case, in legal proceedings before an investigative judge or if there is a case before the courts of the relevant courts. We from the Croatian Democratic Community were subject to all these arguments pro et contra compared to the reports of the Mandate Immunity Commission accept these reasons and this argument for making their decisions and, in accordance with this statement, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union will vote on the proposal of the Mandate Immunity Commission and on the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, which is divided into representatives. We therefore want that in the legal procedure, legal proceedings against all and as regards procedural guarantees and guarantees and protection of procedural guarantees to be dealt with equally, legally and to appeal to judicial practice, that both in future proceedings and in this procedure, justice and legality should be applied equally to all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75155	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75156	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. After one of these... Turns out it's relatively difficult to perform, but if I'm not mistaken, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament Branimir Glavas, somewhere in Osijek, you told him good luck. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I thought it wouldn't come to this turn, but no matter what, I want to say that IDS won't politicize, but we're going to be as very principled as we've ever been. We'll vote to remove the immunity. As far as unequal court practice is concerned, which the President of the Parliament is right to discuss and mention the case of the eight from Osijek. And what to say about some other arrest cases, for example, in the case of Herak who stood in custody for 18 months and I dare say he was almost sacrificed by those of the previous authorities. At the end of the day, I will be pleased to see that the case of eight people from Osijek will be referenced to the sentence of detention in all other cases throughout the Republic of Croatia. I said IDS won't politicize, that we understand each other. I don't think in this case, the case is about the political process. I agree here with my predecessor, President of the Parliament, Mr. Shakespeare. I don't think this is about a mounted process. Just the other way around. I am of the opinion, and I spoke of it 4-5 months ago, I will repeat that the Glavass The Hague tribunal has left the Croatian judiciary to first test the credibility to express myself, Sanader's authorities or to verify in some way the independence of the Croatian judiciary. If that hadn't happened, I'd be holding the honourable Madam MPs so there'd never be a discrepancy between you, HDZ and Mr. Glavas. Why? Because if someone is in charge of Mr. Glavas, then the HDZ is in charge. Why do I defend the thesis that The Hague has left this case to the Croatian judiciary? So much so that these days, let's say a dozen or fifteen days ago came from The Hague and documentation about so-called. Red military stations. What does that mean, gentlemen? That in some way whatever we're doing here, the investigation goes on. And that in the end, no matter how this ends, it's probably not just going to fit on these Colloquial garage cases or the tape case. The international community on the ground of the Republic of Croatia there in the period of '92, '94, '95, had eight, nine, ten, and even twelve thousand soldiers, observers, what we called unprophors. Thousands of people from that number in some way and political or intelligence still covered this space. It is well known that it happened in Osijek, it is known what happened in Sisak, Lora, Gospić, as well as the very citizens of this country know what happened in one Vukovar and Istria if someone throws it. What happened in Dubrovnik, what happened in Skabrnj, further and so on. And we also know, gentlemen, that in time, the sanctioning of Osijek would not have happened to Sisak, if Sisak had been sanctioned, that Gospić would not have been sanctioned, so that what happened to the Paki plain would not have happened to Gospić, etc. ... Quiet. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No one's easy to talk to here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75157	Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75158	And we also see that it's not easy to judge. Apparently, as many as four Osijek judges over the night suffered from flu, cold, fever. And I think that there's a lawyer who's right that the worst thing that can happen to a judge when a case like this happens to him. ... I claim, madam, that even the awkwardness of removing immunity is not a coincidence. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Similarly, it is not by chance that the request against Glavas for whose removal of IDS immunity will be voted on, means that the request is being made during the parliamentary break. So what if we had waited 15 days by chance? Well, it is no accident that this happened because it may have in some way tried to avoid him being in this assembly to talk about it openly. There's no dilemma for me. I have said publicly multiple times, Glavas was to be detained in the fifth month when the first request for immunity was filed, not to allow anyone to follow football championships throughout Germany. If that had happened, maybe today we wouldn't have had this hunger strike and I'm also calling on Mr. Glavas to give it up because it's an act of despair, it's a political act of a couple of exellance, but it's an act of despair. The only thing where politics got involved in the case of you heading my case is the next one. First of all, a political decision has been made that no investigation will be launched in any way and that investigations may be carried out in my court, a deep conviction should have been sent to Osijek by a man who is not led by the police who can be said to be the man of Glavas. After that, everything became a routine thing. I know that the current boss, to call him that, Mr. Faber, has not packed anything for anyone. I also know that they're all in Osijek those days when some people... They knew what was going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every single one of us who was a minor at the time knew that I would say that, and the people of Zagreb and those in this House knew that. I'm just asking myself if, say, January 3rd power would be willing to face these challenges. Gotovina never had the power that Glavas somehow had, who had real political power because all the chiefs of police, judges, etc. either his consent or his appointment. All those named in a river, Istria, I don't know, etc. They're named without the influence of local politics, but I know it didn't happen in one of Osijek. No one can argue in this country either. There was aggression in Croatia. I mentioned before a Vukovar, I mentioned Skabrnja, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Dalek, 12 and a few thousand people were killed, over 30,000 people were disabled in this country. The fact is that Croatia only reached the 1990 gross social product in 2006 and that it will surely have to repair for decades the damage that took place in those war years, but we also know what happened on the Drava and in the Paki plain and in Lor and Gospić, etc. It just shouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75159	Stick to the subject of the Mandate-Immunity Commission report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75160	I'm sticking to the report but I'm asking you to keep all these incursions, throws.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75161	Stick to the topic within the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75162	Calls, mentions of a Yugoslavia, and like that from the gentlemen of the MPs, I'm simply spared. To me, you know what Mr. Representative Djakic, guilty of killing people and war in Bosnia, and needlessly burned houses, and the fact that soldiers today are responding and their employers politicians are trying, I don't know, in construction business.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75163	Mr. Representative, on the basis of Article 214(1), I warn you not to stick to the agenda item under discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75164	I've been trying to concentrate and maintain the agenda all along, but also protect me from these permanent incursions. And I'm also going to say that, with the people in politics, the biggest crime of what might have happened in those days is on the media. Without them, it would be different, too, if we understood each other. War is a terrible thing, it always comes to the best in man, humanity, courage, sacrifice, but unfortunately there comes the worst, inhumanity. A lot of people weren't ready for that. And the victims are, in some ways, the ones who did someone evil. They didn't make it. Of course, the greatest victims were innocently injured by their families, but through them and the whole country as a whole. A lot of people talk about conscience these days. I say she's gone. If she had been, she'd have come to terms a lot sooner. Why do people talk today in 2006, say, 15 years after some liquidations? Well, by the way, and by the light circumstances. The president of this house mentioned a case of garages, mentioned a case of tape, etc. The Fehir penitent appears in the case of a garage. The situation was similar with Suljić. Mirko Simic, a penitent cancer patient, talks in the case of a tape charged with the commander of the USKOK Company, Ivica Krnjak. ... It's a tick. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Carrot, good. The appointed one is now on the table of this picture from Mr. Gorinsek even though those who delivered it themselves say that they absolutely do not blame Mr. Gorinsek in any way. Gordana Getoš-Magdic also repents.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75165	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75166	These are these cases, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75167	Well, stick to the agenda. A second reminder about this before taking away the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75168	For the end, neither these cases are allowed to be played by the Croatian judiciary, nor are we allowed to play with these cases in the Croatian Parliament. Once again, I'm going to tell the international community clearly knows everything, they all have knowledge and who the perpetrators are, and the victims, and witnesses, there are statements, although I clearly repeat that fifteen thousand people have followed the events in these areas, etc. There's no doubt that what Osijek was going through in '91, '92, '93. a small town in this country, that the city is a hero, that many have owed this city and that it is certainly worth it. However, no one was allowed to play God and determine who would be spared by a loyal citizen who would take his life. It's up to this house that we decide on immunity. It's up to the judiciary to be credible. Of course, it doesn't pack, it doesn't have to be impartial, it doesn't have to be objective and judge by the highest standards, and it doesn't end up getting out of control. Because if that happens, it'll be a disgrace to this House, but it'll be a country in general. I am also convinced, second time I repeat that politics will certainly not interfere with the work of the judiciary at this stage. What can happen after this session I don't know. Its meaning of politics was to conduct an objective investigation through the MUP. I don't know, not to mention that Marvush case, and so on, where, in the explanation of the verdict, it's said that the fact that someone killed nine innocent civilians in the midst of enemy aggression on Osijek cannot be put on him. I think it's best if they step back, not to burden the case yourself with the Head. And I, like Mr. Shakespeare, wish Mr. Glavas good luck, even though I am in no way connected to Osijek. And as I said, we will vote to remove this immunity, and what will show the time before us remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75169	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is no issue if we continue this way, which we can't talk about at some point on the agenda, we in Croatia can discuss, everything, about Sweden now what's on the same continent, so does it matter? But it's Mr. Cain's practice. I warned him twice. I didn't take away his word even though I had a few reasons for it. I'm asking you to bring this thing in in one agent's office to say so in the parliamentary way of the end. Not to go into cases, not to go into the past, not to spread the subject, but to bring things down to what this is about. We have two, two, two injuries to the Rules of Procedure and one, two, three, four, five, six corrections to incorrect allegations. If it keeps going like this... Please, there is a violation of the Rules of Procedure by Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75170	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure were injured in item 210. Mr. Caine and you yourself said he was actually talking about topics that go beyond the scope of this agenda point. About Laura, about Sisko, I don't know what either, and he was particularly suggestive of opening up probably under the influence of the media apparently that he was constantly under the influence of some cheap media suggesting some kind of red military, and that it wasn't even the point of the agenda or that Mr. Glavas was being stripped of his immunity because of some red military. I am sorry that the fellow MP is so uncritical that he represents some sort of thesis that appears in the really cheap media here through this Croatian Parliament and constituency.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75171	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice-President Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75172	Here is Vice President Honorable Representative Cain, who injured Rule 215 of the Rules of Procedure. And he speaks when a representative in his speech insults the Croatian people, and you really insult the Croatian people, I will say Lika-Senj County. In your speech, you mentioned Gospić five times in terms of war crimes against Serbian civilians. And I was the one who supported those shops to the end of the investigation. But don't insult the Croatian people. Mention at least once in your speeches at any time: Hunter, Holy Rock, Barlet, Broad Tower, which was killed by 13-year-old girls up to 80 years old. Please mention at least once when it is buried within half a metre wherever it was in Gospić, we encounter Croatian bones made by partisans. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75173	Thank you very much. Let's go to corrections, Mr. Agent Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75174	Mr. Caine, you've been whispering so much from this pay phone that I just don't know what part of your exposure would correct. But I would just like to tell you if you knew so much about these war crimes I suggest you sign up with Mr. Bajic and witness all these cases because these witnesses he has now are not much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75175	Correction Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75176	Mr. Vice President, here's Mr. Damir Cain, after this shameful and contradictory speech that should be corrected, he said so many nebuloses and I'll fix one. He said, quote: "The head should have been detained in the fifth month." Mr Cain Glavas was to be shut down in 1991 because he brought down your Yugoslavia and your father's Yugoslavia. It was to be closed in 1991 because it defended and defended and created the Croatian state. It was supposed to be torn down in 1991 because it didn't allow Osijek to be Ocek. [[Don't be silly!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75178	Don't be silly! Oh, you asshole! Don't be silly! Because my brother and I have been in Gospić since 1992. You've been here in... Don't be silly! [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75179	Mr. Cain you cannot yell at the Assembly and you cannot insult the representatives of the Croatian Assembly...... Saying he's a jerk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So to you, because of you Order! [[The intruders don't understand.]] So because of this insult, I give you a warning from the Croatian Parliament. And now I give you my word for breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75180	I give up. But enough of this insult. 'Cause I'm gonna do it again. My parents have been in Gospić since 1992, all of them!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75181	If you've given up then don't sit there and talk. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75182	Yeah, you should calm down the tone, fellow Caine used to say everything you know... And we want to give trust to the Croatian judiciary to determine the facts that are truly unknown. [[The speaker is not understood, the Vice-President of the Parliament is not excluded.]] So the Croatian public shouldn't get the impression that we know something that she doesn't know, and unfortunately Cain doesn't know that either. So often to insist on the thesis that something decidated is a risky rhetorical strategy. And it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75183	Correction...... Correction of an incorrect quote, please peace! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He has representative Vladimir Šišljagic. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75184	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain said on a number of occasions, now I'm applying myself to a fellow representative of Letica that in fact we all know all about some war crimes committed in Gospić, Lora, in Osijek, actually west at one point in contradiction because he says that he was in no way connected to Osijek, so that there is no doubt that at least one of those who you mention Mr Cain is me. I certainly claim here, and quite certainly many of those you think when you say everyone knows didn't know about any war crimes in Osijek, Lori, Miss, etc. And if you knew that, then you should have told the competent institution a long time ago that those crimes you mention would have been sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75185	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75186	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting Mr. Kajin's incorrect claim in a series of inaccuracies and deceptions to the Croatian public that they were both unnecessary and devastating victims both in Gospić and Sisak and in Pakraška Poljana and therefore tells all about his wishes and aspirations for free and independent Croatia. He doesn't understand who was the aggressor at all, and who was the victim of the Homeland War because he didn't mention the Chetnikite, or Coyle with a single letter. and Vukovar and Pakrac where thousands of Croats were killed and so I can assume... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75187	You don't have to, you don't have to. You've corrected the quote and there's no need to discuss it further and spread the debate again. Please, come on! On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say in the introduction that the HSS Club will not participate in this further. After the club's presentation, we won't discuss it individually, and we won't even be present for the vote at this session. We don't want to decide what we don't know. We don't want to decide on the basis of information from the media. I'm going back to the questions we asked before the debate started. We've received a proposal from the Mandatory Immunity Commission. However, the proposal only states that it has been voted. We didn't even get the record, let alone that we got some material facts based on which the Commission made a decision. So we should strengthen, confirm that commission's decision or refuse. Well, gentlemen, on what grounds? Does anyone have any material evidence to support Branimir Glavas or counter him? I think it's a question of conscience whether we can decide this way about the fate of a man based on paper and letters written on a page and a half. At least we don't have any information and we don't want to do legal acrobatics here in the Parliament, but we want to point to the necessary human approach in solving this problem. What motivated the Committee to make such a decision? What are the facts that ruled that I would like to know. We wish we'd gotten that a few days ago, so we could've taken the club's stand. To vote like this for what, for what? We really don't understand that approach. The first time we face such a situation in the House, and I also asked before the debate was launched, did Agent Glavas get a call for this session? I didn't get the answer. We are to him, or the commission has removed immunity so that he may be in custody. But did he stop being a parliamentary representative? Whether he got the call and whether he really needed to be allowed to sit here with us so he hears what we're saying about him and his case and possibly reacts. To me, it's completely and vaguely this salty mortal that happened now at the HDZ Club. The president of the Shex Parliament sees the reasons why he doesn't actually see the reasons why Glavas would stay in custody because of the severity of the crime, at least that's how he explained it. However, it is not clear to us in the HSS why, in that case at all, Agent Glavas would be in custody. No one explained why he would have to be in custody and why the commission had made such a decision and on what grounds. We decide, we vote if we vote, who will vote without the background that we are not familiar with the text, and neither is the content of a solution that determines against Branimir Glavas the conduct of an investigation for the crime as stated in Article 120 of the War Crimes Act. The vote confirms and strengthens the commission's decision or puts the decision out of force. Why is he in custody? Did the Committee tell us that? No, I didn't hear it or maybe I didn't listen well. If it is the fact that it affects witnesses, if that is the only reason, then we could also claim that the state is incapable of protecting witnesses. Maybe we could say that the state doesn't even want to protect the witnesses, so maybe we would, and we could say that's the reason it's used to keep Glavas in custody. Well, we could probably give ourselves answers to such questions. That's why we here at the HSS Club have decided not to attend a vote to confirm or reject the proposal of the Executive Immunity Committee. We do not want to be politically outsmarted here and legally outsmarted, and we do not want to stay in the assembly and keep the quorum in order to make a decision that we are not sure will be legally valid and that it will be just. The mandated Immunity Commission shall make a proposal to the Assembly, with a proposal such as any act in the procedure should go and an explanation should also go on the basis of which it was adopted. I stress, we don't have that. However, General Glavas is a warrior and we in the HSS hope that he will win this battle as well. But at the same time, we would like to defend himself from freedom, to be prepared and physically, to be prepared and intellectual. We want to rule out the reasons for the hunger strike if it's an influence on witnesses, let the state take care of the witnesses and allow Glavas to defend himself. After the war, history says the winner, at least that's how it was in all the righteous wars in the world. After a fair war against the occupier, this right belongs to Croatia. Gentlemen, what kind of history do we write if we here in Parliament decide without arguments? That practice is the first time, but don't let God do it again. That right belongs to us too to write our own history. Why are there no war heroes in Croatia? What fate did the commander of Vukovar Mile Dedakovic Hawk experience?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75189	Stick to the subject, Mr. Representative. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75190	I'm on the subject right now. Thank you. How was the decision on his detention made? A general who was also in custody. What would have happened if General Mile Santakovic Hawk had failed to endure the torture?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75191	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75192	We saw pictures on TV of what it looked like.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75193	... Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75194	He'd be automatically convicted, automatically declared a traitor. Fortunately, the court released him. He's had an apology, and even President Tudjman, as we've had the opportunity to hear. And he succeeded, which is important, and he was able to forgive everyone. But he will never understand, and probably not accept that he was an unjust suspect and was unjustly detained. How does Branimir Glava feel today about the fact that he could spend months in custody? How does he cope with the fact that his long-term stay in custody could be sealed even by a member of the enemy army who was convicted of war crimes, but also amnesty under Croatian laws? What's the difference between Santakovic and Glavas? In 15 years. Absolutely 15 years of time distance, that's the difference. The fact that a Croatian general cannot defend himself from freedom because of the alleged and possible influence on witnesses we do not accept. We believe that it is the duty of the Croatian state to protect the witnesses, if necessary, to lead to some special action. That shouldn't be a cause for detention. The head reacts in a unique way. He's on a hunger strike. That's the way you're headin' her. It directly affects its ability and, of course, harms itself. It probably hurts other things, but I wouldn't want to speak politically here. However, we do not need to deal with the question of whether or not the Head is guilty. The real question is whether he deserves to defend himself from freedom and whether he should be allowed to defend himself from freedom, or to defend himself in the best possible way. I think he deserves it. And we at the HSS, I end up with this, and we don't want to take part in the vote without the basis, we don't want the sole reason for the vote to be the opinion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75195	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is the right of every representative and club to have an opinion on anything. However, we have heard that the Croatian Parliament here should be a courtroom where a lawsuit would be conducted, where witnesses on the one hand would be questioned, on the other hand. However, it is not the work of the Croatian Parliament. That's what the courts are for. And this is, this is parliamentary hair, is it? We're not, we're not any investigative authorities or judges or prosecutors or any of that. It is also the right of every representative and club to have no confidence in the institutions of the state, the State's attorney, the investigative judges and one and the other, the other state's attorney, the state's attorney, the general state's attorney, in our authority, the Mandate-Immunity Commission that we voted here. It's every club's right to have an opinion on it, I'm not questioning it. But I don't understand how to allow Mr. Glavas to defend himself from freedom when you leave the assembly and there's no quorum. He's got an ID. Mr. Pero Kovacevic. ... You'll get it. I've already called Peru Kovacevic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75196	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Pecek about why the MPs didn't get all the material on the bench. They couldn't do it because the president of the Parliament would commit a criminal offence of giving away classified information. Namely, it's the State's Attorney's Office. I made an insight into the case and each of the agents could have made an insight into the case. If you have followed the Rules of Procedure, you must sign a declaration of secrecy and must not speak publicly of it. Namely, the State's Attorney's Office has requested that the case be closed, because they are located in the case in view of the implementation phase of the classified information. And that's why no one could put you on the bench. And all the colleagues from the HSP club, Mr Letica, Ivo Loncar and all the others who wanted to do it came, gave a written statement, made an insight into the case, and we talked at a closed session. We can't speak to the public because we'd be in a position to reveal classified information. So that's what Mr. Markov knows because he's a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. So everyone can come from the Internal Security Committee and sign the same statement and let's not fool the public because we have to protect classified information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75197	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75198	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because you're commenting on what I didn't say. So is Mr. Kovacevic. You just gave him a correction for what I didn't say. I only asked that the same procedure as the members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission be given to us. I was just asking to postpone the session... I was just asking to postpone the session before the parliamentary representatives read the material. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] That was my request in front of the HSS club. And yet, we can still do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75199	First, Mr. Representative, you didn't mention the article in which I hurt the Rules of Procedure, so you hurt the Rules of Procedure. And second of all, you said I commented on what you didn't say. I commented on a small part of what you said, and you said a lot more than I did and what it took to comment on this House. He has the word of Mrs. Vice President and representative Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75200	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee finally came to its conclusions which it proposed to this Assembly, and these conclusions were based on the request of judges of the responsible and state attorneys. It did in the end what it is and only it is business and the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the work of this House, which is that on the basis of the judicial basis, it requires the judicial authorities of this country to enable these judicial authorities to do their job. The only thing that is required of the Parliament is that it is expected and can be asked and expected to enable, within its powers, in this particular case Glavas, to enable the judicial authorities to do their job. It has already been seen from the procedure of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and in particular it seems to me that it is obvious from this debate today, that instead of sticking to the subject and the criteria of things, which is that Parliament allows the judiciary to decide, therefore, that it is doing its job, that it is trying to make a decision in Parliament's bodies and Parliament itself on the scale of the case. So if he's guilty, he's not guilty, he deserves this treatment, he doesn't deserve that kind of treatment. It's not the parliament's job, it's the court's business. The job of the Parliament is only to enable the court to do its job in the best and most conscious way possible. The state's attorney's office has requested custody based on the extent of the crime that Branimir Glavas is suspected of, which is the most severe, most serious crime, war crime. Judges further requested pressure-based detention, or the prevention of pressure on witnesses, of course there is no doubt since one of the witnesses publicly told the camera that he had been pressured. We're here to discuss whether the State's Attorney's Office has the right to assess that since it's the most serious crime, which is a war crime, it's to ask for the foundation of that detention. No one has ever disputed anything so far that the crimes that we're talking about here, which are called so Colloquially inadmissible "garage" and "salotepe" and in fact the most terrible tortures and the most terrible murders, has never been challenged by anyone so far that these crimes have happened. Therefore, the court does not decide, let alone the Parliament, whether these crimes have happened or not, these crimes have happened. What the court decides and wants freedom to decide without political pressure is whether Branimir Glavas is a suspect in these crimes, whether he is truly guilty or not guilty of these crimes. Therefore, the size of the crime or the extent of the crime on the basis of which the State's Attorney's Office is seeking detention is not questioned. So we don't have anyone who's ever had anything to notice at the crime scene, so it's obvious that the state's attorney's request is justified. The crimes are unquestionable, the court's request is unquestioned, the state's attorney's request is unquestioned. The role the Parliament should have here is unquestionable, which is to enable the Croatian judiciary to do its job, and then, of course, it is the question of the court's decision, or the final verdict whether the person suspected of these crimes is indeed guilty of them. But it's really excessive for us to get involved here with any big patriot or any other speech. I have to say that I and my club are shocked by the Copernicus establishments that are happening here today. The first to take place with HDZ whose votes voted the note was voted by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Well, it wasn't a decision taken without HDZ votes, because without HDZ votes, of course, they couldn't make it. Therefore, another day, HDZ felt that it wanted to enable the judicial authorities to do their job, i.e. to enable the State's Attorney's office and then to the court to do what had to be done. Today we hear from the President of the Parliament who spoke here on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Shakespeare, that new knowledge has occurred. What are these new insights? The only new knowledge that could affect this decision and change the decision that HDZ voted for on the Mandate-Immunity Commission is that it was not an extremely serious criminal act of war crime. Because only in this case would this request by the State's Attorney's office be not justified and if it wasn't for such crimes, then that decision should be revised. But we haven't heard anything about it, and that's not an explanation. The argument is that in different other cases the court acted differently. It may be, but that's not what this Parliament is asking. This House wonders whether, in the case of one of us, one of us wants to enable the State Attorney's Office to do what the State's Attorney's Office considers necessary in this case. It is therefore not up to the Parliament to assess whether the State Attorney's Office may consider or must not consider it necessary for the suspect to be detained in this case. If the State Attorney's Office considers it necessary, the Assembly cannot decide on the basis of judicial practice in other cases that were once like this, at times, that the State's Attorney's Office has no right now. Then we can call the state's attorneys or we can call the judges, but we can't decide whether the state's attorney's office in its request at this point has no right, if there's still a thesis. If someone can show up with the thesis that it's not an extremely serious crime crime offense that changes the situation. But if the position remains that Glavas is suspected of an extremely serious crime of war, then there is no new knowledge that could affect this debate. I consider the introduction of topics such as love for Croatia, patriotism, the Homeland War, the introduction of these topics into this debate forms of pressure or attempt to intimidate those who want to work on the Croatian judiciary. How will the Croatian judiciary work, how can we expect the state's attorneys and Croatian courts to function if the Parliament sabotages them. If we here undermine and prevent the work of the judicial authorities, the impartial behaviour of the judicial authorities, if we put political pressure on them in this way, in which way the Croatian judiciary will function. I must say that I believe that the only real reason for the change in the HDZ Club's position since a few days ago is when they supported and came to the meeting by voting on the Mandate Immunity Commission to meet the demands of the state's attorney's office, that the only real reason is fear. Fear of what you'd be looking for in case this goes through what the State's Attorney's office is saying, looking for, you might say. Since the HNS is not afraid, since the HNS considers the start of a normal state to be normal, impartial, without political pressures from the functioning judiciary, the HNS will vote for decisions of the Mandate Immunity Commission, it will vote for allowing the Croatian judiciary to function and do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75201	Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75202	Of all these incorrect allegations, I would single out one that would correct. This is the reason for Mr Branimir Glavas' detention because, according to Mrs Pusic, he is pressuring witnesses. I don't know what TV she was watching that witness's statement on. I also had an insight into the Committee's case. Mr. Glavas didn't, as you say, press any witnesses, and no witnesses said so. They all made a strict statement in court that there was no pressure on them and that no one forced them to change their mind. As far as I know, that's not even Mr. Hegle's statement. Mr. Glavas is in custody because he is the opinion of the State Attorney's Office, which I personally believe is that there are no facts or arguments, preventively detained for the sake of possible influence on witnesses. And it's clearly written in an explanation. By stressing once again, I don't think there's any foundation, no fact or argument that there's been an arrest. And Mrs. Pusic, you haven't told the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75203	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75204	It is difficult to correct the ignorance of immunity in Europe. There are two countries that don't allow the abolition of immunity for closure at all, so it can't be said that they are obstructing the work of the rule of law. However we decide today we will not interfere in the autonomy of the Croatian judiciary. I didn't realize that the intensity of the new HDZ Club initiative was, therefore, a colleague should read a little bit more, and as far as HNS is not afraid of the State's Attorney's Office. Advocacy to the State's Attorney's Office shows that they are very scared, however, because of some other evils.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75205	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative and President of the Parliament Mr. Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75206	... They are not the exact claims made by Vice-President Vesna Pusic, as all of her premises on the relation to immunity are incorrect. [[Specially enabled.]] Why are they incorrect? The first assumption is that if the Croatian Parliament accepted the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club, it would undermine the Institute of Immunity. The Institute of Immunity with regard to Conversions there is no mere automation towards which, if the Croatian Parliament is asked to remove immunity for the purpose of detention, it should only forward and grant approval as a postman. He needs to weigh. He has to weigh, and I've brought up the reasons why we weigh. It is not a fear that the representative of which was able to state something, but rather the reasons in the argument which I have made and which are clear to the entire Croatian Parliament and the public, the reasons why the case law was shown to have been unfairly handled in war crimes as regards reasons for detention or defence on the loose. These are key reasons, arguments, not hypotheses and claims that the Croatian Parliament should, according to mere automation...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75207	Thank you, thank you very much. There's been a bit of a shut-down, so it's been a little lengthy. Like this, now the correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75208	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pusic says the state's attorney's request is unquestioned. Well, it's not, Mrs. Pusic. The state's attorney's office is one party in the process. What makes you think he's unquestionable? This House as a representative body is about to delay whether the request is an investigative judge, not a state's attorney's office. Therefore, the State's Attorney's Office should have sent this to the investigating judge, and the investigative judge should have assessed the justification and justification of the Croatian Parliament. I'm aware and I can see that you're shocked, although I don't know what that shock means by the Copernicus turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75209	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The incorrect allegations of fellow MPs have already been corrected. I would actually underline one when she said this was actually pressure, political pressure on the judiciary. So this should be removed once again and there's no talking about it like there's no talking about any fear of someone, because if there was a talk about that kind of fear that you're talking about then it would be better for us to have that someone we're afraid of in prison than to get out of jail because we're trying to get out because we think it's unnecessary now to be in jail more to actually defend ourselves equally and equally with everyone else with freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75211	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75212	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. Since fellow Letica and Parliament Speaker Mr. Shecks are related to immunity differences that an esteemed colleague does not understand correct, I will give up that part, but I must say this second part. You keep telling the court. The case didn't come to court because an investigation is now being conducted. The investigation is being conducted by an investigative judge. It's just based on... The state's attorney's office will decide whether to file an indictment, which is an important difference, do not mix pears and apples. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not yet, that's the stage of the investigation. That the investigative judge assessed on the basis of that whole thing... evidence whether there will be room and whether the State's Attorney's office will even go with the indictment proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't mix pears and apples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75213	On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Ante Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75214	The Croatian Parliament today does nothing but bring Mr. Glavas into the same position before the law. In fact, here today we have heard various steps, various debates and influences and views of the international community spoken about and from giving to the State's Attorney's Office the importance which he cannot have as much as possible here as possible because indeed what counterpart Šišljagić said is the State's attorney's office in the process and it is logical that here he is trying to secure as possible his better and more quality positions as a law enforcement body. So here your body is persecuting in the process and it does everything to ensure to itself as best starting positions as possible for a possible rise... After the investigation and having good positions in the very possible trial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the opportunity today of the Croatian Parliament really as the President of the Parliament said earlier to show that it is not only by the automation of the role of the Immunity Commission, and through it, of course, the Croatian Parliament that every request for detention by the State's Attorney's office itself is accepted. Otherwise, it is questionable whether the State Attorney's Office can apply for detention in front of the Croatian Parliament. This must and may be the role of courts in Croatia, and the state's attorney has the possibility and direction he has to and as he does in practice to request detention through an investigative judge. It happened to us that on the Immunity Commission they had two requirements for detention and one of the judges of the County Court in Zagreb and the State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb which, of course, caused what is, those numerous controversy, almost one... The situation in which this case was found. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a result, we hold that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should be made, in particular Article 23(3), which could be made exclusively at the request of the courts in Croatia, not the State's Attorney's Office, because it is indeed unacceptable in our opinion to create a practice that the State's Attorney's Office can at any time and at any time request the detention of the Croatian representative and, then, by inert and without criticism, the Croatian Parliament makes a decision on detention. We remember and we still have that situation that we... in the large part of the Croatian Parliament, the dissatisfaction with the fact that the Hague Attorney's Office has taken over the position of giving an assessment of Croatia's cooperation with the Hague Court, although it should have been in practice and by law the role of the court itself, not the attorney's office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we hold that this is a bold decision, an honest decision that practically enables our fellow parliamentary representative, with the suspicion of innocence, to establish in an investigation against freedom, namely that those who accuse him must prove his guilt, not that he must prove his innocence. Therefore, there is really no reason why this House should not accept the Croatian Democratic Community's proposal to support the request of an investigative judge in Zagreb for the determination of detention in relation to the impact on witnesses and to support the decision to launch an investigation so-called. the case of the "selotep" in Osijek, and to prevent detention on issues in particular... For 15 years, criminal acts have passed, and the presummation of innocence should be maintained in the proceedings itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We in Croatia have to point out a few words in our rights because again today, the politicisation of this case has also been felt. Whenever we talk about war crimes, you can never break the policy of war crimes because it's always a political issue. So I'll just remind myself of what I didn't hear today from colleagues and colleagues who are energetically thinking that we shouldn't intervene at all in the demands of the State's Attorney's Office when it comes to investigations and the committing of possible crimes by Croatian members of the Croatian Armed Forces. If we were witnesses of modern times by adopting three laws of general forgiveness, we were witnesses of the fact that truly people who were legally sentenced after 18 years of prison for crimes against the Croatian people were to be convicted in absentia that after they were available to Croatian authorities they had renewed their proceedings without having to be detained in the Croatian Parliament. And even Branimir Glavas, who is now where he is, was one of those who practically got out of prison, which would say the famous "Schodolovakia Group". So, if the president of the Croatian Parliament himself had just said in his speech that there is a whole series. I will not quote numbers and names, there is no need or we can do this, criminal proceedings of various forms for war crimes, so the same article that also accused Glavas of defending himself from freedom, the minimum that the Croatian Parliament can do for his fellow MP, the five-time parliamentary representative, the General of the Croatian Army to protect both his dignity and the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and that he is in the process in which he is, he does not run away from it. This showed all of his former spells to establish his fault or to establish what he was convinced of and his innocence. So, if there is a similar case in Croatia in which someone defends himself for such a crime from freedom, then the least we can do is do it to defend himself with freedom and a parliamentary representative on these elements that we have listed here. ... to the witnesses, that's the part where really if the court estimates that there's a reason so they're looking for detention, a colleague of the Chiefs is that and that's how he practically acted in that case, but this fourth point is particularly difficult circumstances... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a crime it can't really be and shouldn't be principled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The position should be of the Croatian Parliament in the future to apply detention to parliamentary deputies until the final process is completed. On that behalf, the Croatian party right club supports the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community club. We will absolutely support it and in this way I want to remind myself that I was also a defendant before the Croatian Court at that time. The most serious crime that could have happened was in '92. year, the collapse of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Parliament then showed a high degree I would say to protect the integrity of the parliamentary representative. Immunity's been taken down, but it didn't occur to anyone at that time to determine and detain. And there was a process, it lasted a year and a half and I and, not just me, but other colleagues who were party leaders were then released by a release of any criminal responsibility. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament does nothing but really protects the dignity of its own parliamentary representatives of this House, also brings Mr. Glavas into equality before the law in relation to everything, and that is what I would say is an obligation for all of us and we, with great satisfaction in Croatia, have the right to appreciate this decision of the Croatian Democratic Community and our club will be pleased to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75215	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr... A correction! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75216	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that Glavas is in the same position before the law because he is in custody and the obvious reasons why we are now saying that he should not have been in custody were also there at the time when the commission reached a mandated decision. Because to carry out a procedure similar to that of General Glavas, we knew that at the moment when the Mandate Immunity Commission made a decision. Logically, Glavas wasn't even supposed to be in custody if we're going to respect court practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75217	I have to say that no one here said that they shouldn't be in jail based on the influence on witnesses, because that's what Mr. Djapic and the others pointed out to support it. So let's not fix something that someone hasn't said. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75218	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As far as our liberals are concerned, we like to say, "Let justice be done even if the world fails." We hope that the world will fail and justice will be done. It is not easy to speak in the Croatian Parliament today precisely because of what we say, we do not keep joystick. Someone else will determine you contextualize, reinterpret. And that's what has been making it more difficult lately for any higher, rational political life in Croatia. Either he's on trial too fast or he's getting loose too fast. And that's nothing but the face and face of the same totalitarian coin. In such situations, it is actually plebied for revolutionary law, for ideological passions that then determine what would be, which is true, which is not true, who is guilty, who is not blood. And it's me as a liberal but not only as a liberal but as a citizen of this country, it's very scary. I always try in all my performances, I try not to suspend the institutions of this system in any way, is that if it did, indeed, in political life, bring in anarchy. Something is being introduced that causes citizens to be insecure. It's a very dangerous thing to do, and it needs to be given up. Because no matter how we commit, I think there's always been this third time. That there are even those in this country who don't judge too quickly and also don't release too quickly. But they are now allowing the institutions of the system to act and that they are saying their own words and that they are making us bound by that word. And even when he's sick for us. What happens to me or else if that doesn't happen then it happens in all of us and we've witnessed all these last months is actually what some wise people say the lower floors of our consciousness. Then irrationally, and then irrationally, that spirit that comes out of the bottle is very difficult or almost impossible to bring it back into the bottle. And then we have what we have that our transition takes too long and we can't actually get to a healthy branch. What, I might be saying something different than all these predecessors were wise, smart, politically responsible before me. I'm just going to find out that our intellectual, academic public didn't take out one Caliaspers. We didn't write our problem about our relationship to guilt. I think we had to do it again for ourselves. We must face the dark side of our recent past. If we don't, then what we're suppressing is what comes back. Trauma doesn't get any smaller than it will eventually, it will modernise in the meantime and appear in five, ten, fifteen or more years. That's not good either. Our history is exactly the history of suppressing and then it is also working on the myth of our social consciousness, our historical consciousness. It's because of this mythomanic relationship that then exactly a whole series of events or characters in our history are completely different or incorrectly interpreted, and that's not good. And with that kind of practice, it should stop right now because of us. So in my opinion, the question, the case, the story of Glavas is much more complex. She can't only count on him as an individual, as a man. That story is a story about all of us. That story is actually this that some things we have systematically avoided doing and we always naively think that it will never reach us. That's why I say as a liberal, as a citizen, I'm in a very questionable situation. I would like the institution of the system to be respected, I would like the rule of law to function, to make people feel secure, that everything is governed by the law, that no one is excluded, that no one has, that no one is applied to anything that applies to someone else. And that's good. We must work to ensure that our case law is uniform, that these cases we have heard today are not really simply allowed to be in a normally arranged country. Again, we are going from the presummation of the innocence of this universal civilization principle, "No one is guilty until proven guilty!". But also, what bothers me as a human being is that we don't have the courage to talk about the victims, about all the victims of this war, that we finally have and that we put him and put the victim in the focus of our discussions, of our conversions, and that we show at least that fundamentally necessary piety according to that fact that some people were really in the wrong place at the wrong time and died precisely for some miraculous irrational reasons because they were doing these lower floors of our consciousness. I believe that we will also have the courage as High House, as representatives of this High House, to speak properly, respond, and to bow down to every victim. Because if we don't act like it, if we're just gonna say that we're being lamatated by these ideological things, then we're not gonna get far. I keep fighting back and forth from this year to year to ask for that minimum of honesty, the truth about the facts that happened during the war in Osijek, not to testify about what I didn't attend, to say the same that it was a difficult time, that in those times many citizens of the city of Osijek were killed, and those of whom are spoken, these are just like this, I say to the judicial ugly language of the garage or the tape that really is at the end of the person, the existence comes down to some place or some material. So I say we open up a space for that catharsis of ours, let's not hide for these or those reasons. It's usually the political nature, the friendly nature, the ideological nature, that we avoid, and then we think it'll come better for a while. If we do that, then what I think was a great episode in the history of this country, these citizens will actually come down to the mere banality of evil. And I wouldn't want that to happen. And that is why I appeal that justice is done, that in no way do we suspend the institutions of the rule of law that they function, that we trust them, and even when we feel that they are wrong because they have opportunities, there are exactly these more instances that can lead certain jurisprudences into the right framework and the right measure. So, the presummation of innocence, the speech of the victim and the possibility of an autonomous, independent action of all the institutions of this society because if we have suspicion of any then citizens have the right to doubt us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75219	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75220	My colleague Kramarić said, "Here I will read literally as I have written, that we are not yet ready to face the dark side of our newer past." I think that's incorrect. We faced our colleague Kramarić with this dark side of our past, we know what happened in Škabrnja, in Celija, in Četnik, in Dubrovnik, in Zadar, in Vukovar, in Vinkovci, in Nuštr, in Germany, in Ceric, in Bogdanovci. We know who sent sixty-four innocent men to Lovas to the minefield. We know who killed thousands and two hundred innocent people in Osijek, but unfortunately we're doing nothing against them. It's the dark side of our past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75221	It's already been 16:30 a.m. to report a ten-minute hearing. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75222	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! Today is the 20th day as Mr. Branimir Heads at the prison hospital hunger strikes. This drastic step was decided by his right because he had lost faith in the institution of the legal system of the state he was creating. He also decided because he does not have the same right in his country as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. About a year and a half ago, Branimir Glavas, then a protected witness, Krunoslav Fehir, accused of war crimes in the courtyard of the then municipality of Osijek. Croatian television has enabled Krunoslav Fehir's killer by her own recognition through the same Croatian television to muddle Branimir Glavas not only in the central "Dnevnik" but also in special or specialized HTV shows. Other media have also competed in who will find more new witnesses, who will present more semi-information, misinformation, unverified details about the case. Unfortunately, the media harangus was joined by police chief Mr. Faber and, like media stars, the chief of the Osijek police began to give interviews on various newspapers, media newspapers. Here, I'll cover the title of one of them. Chief of Police on the front page. It's not the only one. He was on several front pages. Is that the role of Chief of Police? So all the forces are through the media trying to show Glavas as a war criminal and a murderer. It went so far, I am now talking about the fact that the police administration of Osijek-Baranja sent a letter to the investigating judge claiming that one of the witnesses of Damir Huber had moved under pressure Branimir Glavas to Serbia, Novi Sad, and that he was going to "brifing" at Glavas knowingly and tendingly hiding the fact that in the same building where Mr. Glavas actually lives Huber's lawyer. And what happened after that? I witnessed the indictment together with my lawyer, so Mr. Huber held a press conference, denied and denied claims about moving to Serbia, certainly also claims of visits to Glavas. In fact, he filed criminal charges against the police for pressure. The procedure before the Zagreb County Court was declared secret. Despite the fact that the procedure has been declared secret from the State's Attorney's Office daily in the media, information is provided in order to compromise Branimir Glavas. No one is responsible for that in the Republic of Croatia. I would like to remind you that the State's Attorney's Office is in the investigation process only one of the parties to the proceedings. One party is allowed to go to the media but one who is a suspect, Mr. Glavas is not allowed to comment, to submit evidence that man defends himself with facts and arguments. I ask the question whether the secrecy of the proceedings is intended to hide from the Croatian public the fact that none of the 42 witnesses examined so far is burdening Mr. Glavas. Or perhaps the secrecy of the proceedings protects the poor work of the police and the State's Attorney's office. Krunoslav Fehir, a murderer by his own admission, has confessed to the murder, the second accused in this same case of the courtyard or as they call it "the garage" and today is an employee of the interior ministry. He's still doing his job today. He is free to walk in Zagreb, while accompanied by insurance paid by the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. The gentleman who's killed himself confessed. Unlike him, Mr. Branimir Glavas has been detained and currently in a prison hospital on the Saint-Simun road. When, on May 10th, in this same assembly, most MPs removed the immunity of Branimir Glavas by who knows which time he repeated that he was just interested in lighting up the crimes that took place in the area of the city of Osijek at the time of the Homeland War. By decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, his case was moved from Osijek to Zagreb. As I have said at the County Court in Zagreb since the proposed 45 initially proposed so far, 42. Unfortunately, one witness died in the meantime. Among them were former commanders of the operational zone Osijek, the city of Osijek war mayor, former defence minister, wartime head of the Osijek Centre for the Protection of the Constitutional Order, wartime chief of the Osijek Police and many others. I especially mention these because the assumption given the functions that they had great insight and information about the events in the city of Osijek and in that part of Croatia during the Homeland War. However, I repeat, none of the witnesses examined so far has charged Mr. Glavas or confirmed the incrimination based on the testimony of Krunoslav Fehir on the burden. Meanwhile, in the course of the investigation, the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb on three occasions requested the detention of Branimir Glavas for alleged influence on witnesses. Three times. In the third attempt, but only after the extrajudicial council annulled the original decision of the investigating judge and returned the request for re-determination of the investigating judge finally gave way to the continued pressure of the chief state attorney and reached a solution on the detention of Branimir Glavas. Why? With what explanation? Due to the alleged influence, the effect on the four designated witnesses. Istvan Mihalik, Mladen Pavlovski, Damir Huber, Ivica Spiranac. All of these witnesses except Mr. Spyrantz have already given their testimony. The testimony doesn't burden Mr. Glavas. The above decision on detention due to the influence on witnesses was sent to the Croatian Parliament. In view of the timing between the two meetings of the decision, it was proposed that the Mandate-Immunity Commission be decided. Let me express my personal opinion. I'm not a lawyer, but as a lawyer, I have a right. That it was an unremembered debacle at the session, at two meetings of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Because, at the same time as Judge Posavac's request, there is also a request from the County State's Attorney's office in Osijek that is requesting an investigation and detention for the new Selotep case. And you know when the County State's Attorney's office takes it? He endures at a time when neither the investigation is open nor there is a solution to the detention. At the same session, the Mandate-Immunity Commission rejected the request for detention sent by the Judge of the County Court in Zagreb. The debate goes so far that individual members of the Committee define it as unconstitutional. The mandate committee, however, approves the initiation of proceedings and detention for Branimir Glavas at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek for the "Slotep" case. I remind you of the time when neither the investigation is open at the County Court in Osijek nor there is a solution to the detention. After only three days, a new session of the Mandate Immunity Commission was held. At that new session, the re-application of Judge Posavac, the investigative judge who was completely identical to the first one, has not changed anything. However, a new request has also arrived now from the State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb directly to the Mandate Immunity Commission, of course, through the President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the State Attorney's Office is bypassing the Judge-General of the Investigative Judge, since in three attempts or two, he is now going directly to the Mandate Immunity Commission, knowing that the Croatian Assembly is not sitting at that same session of the State, or the Deputy Chief Attorney-General, is allowed to specifically elaborate the request, insist on the request, convince the members of the commission that they should meet that request. There's a record of that. I believe that this case is unprecedented that a representative of a judicial body was allowed to directly interfere with the debate and decision-making in the case in which the Croatian Parliament as a sovereign legislative body independently decides on the basis of direct constitutional provisions and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The commission granted approval on the basis of both requests, and Mr. Glavas, on the other hand, headed for the same large Remetine prison. So, Glavas is currently in custody. The investigation into the Court case continues. Most of the proposed witnesses were investigated in this case. The relevant evidence that Glavas would commit, order or conceal a war crime so far is gone. Obviously, though, someone’s goal was to keep Glavas as much in custody as possible. The County State's Attorney's Office is proposing 10 more witnesses once later, and then it suggests 17 more witnesses here yesterday. These 17 witnesses are proposed for purely prosaic and banal reasons. Since the argument states that along with 14 witnesses they were invited to determine whether they were so-called. Post-Statva Battle, or Branimir's Osjeka battlefield popularly called existence or not. Well, that's been established long ago, and that's the fact about that unit no matter what it's called. So, since we have heard the presentation and proposals of the Croatian Democratic Community Club regarding this item of the agenda, I must stress and say that we at the HDSB Club of course support this proposal. I ask parliamentary representatives, my colleagues to understand and the fact that we are far more directed in this case and that regarding the decision on detention because of the influence on witnesses, and especially since it concerns these four witnesses, the HDSB Club will be against the decision on detention because of the influence on witnesses at the request of the investigative judge Mr Posavec and of course for these proposals made by the Croatian Democratic Community Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75223	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75224	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It is really difficult in this situation whether it is and what it is caused, whether it is spontaneous or not to participate in the debate. That is why I think it is the right view of the SDP Club that the proposal of the Mandating Immunity Commission is only shown in a principled, principled and principled way. That's two principles. The principle of government division also provides in this case. Therefore, that the judiciary can autonomously use all the instruments of the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Secondly, the second principle to stick to the practice of the Croatian Parliament in similar situations. So, in the assembly, we all agree that we are not a court, and we must not accept the role of the court, and we are in no way influencing the decisions of the court or of the judicial authorities. Therefore, the SDP Club does not want to affect either the course or the course of the investigation. However, the SDP club would have to answer why a political facility occurs especially when it puts the Croatian Parliament in a position to change its views depending on the needs of the HDZ Club and decides post-festum. Therefore, the decision of the Parliament's Mandatory Immunity Commission has already been realised. In addition, so far in the Croatian Parliament, we have not, on the basis of the different knowledge of any investigation, discussed in principle what anyone knows. We must take the view that, that the steps taken by the Croatian Parliament have already taken, which is to remove immunity to Agent Branimir Glavas, has opened up second step, or all steps in the process of investigation. You're all claiming here that there has been no significant change in the reasons for removing immunity. So, the judicial authorities, the investigative authorities, because of the need for the process, asked the Croatian Parliament for what they had asked for, and our Mandate-Immunity Commission proposed decisions to us. And according to the debate we're having right now, not all clubs are in the same position because obviously the HDZ Club has other reasons. We can't accept being in, so to speak, the servants of the HDZ Club's need. It is the principled position of most clubs, and the SDP club has since the start of the mandate for procedural immunity to representatives when requested by state authorities. So far, the position of the Croatian Parliament has been that way. We think we should stick to some democraticly reached standard always. Secondly, the position of the SDP club is that all war crimes should be investigated, individualised and processed and thus separated from the Homeland War. Any activity in determining, the processing of war crimes must be without day-to-day political influence on judicial bodies no matter which, under quotes, are "higher reasons". The autonomous action of the rule of law and the judicial authorities is in the interest of all of us, all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I am convinced that this is the greatest requirement of defence and of the Head himself. Evaluating a concrete case, i.e. the request of the Court and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for the confiscation of immunity to Agent Branimir Glavas for the launch and detention of the Croatian public deserves answers to who he is and what affected the creation of a bad picture of the Croatian rule of law, in which the Croatian Parliament also participates through the commission and the Croatian Parliament itself. Already on the request, the first request to confiscate my colleague Glavas' immunity, to launch an investigation on behalf of the club, I asked for an answer as to what affected the investigation to be launched 15 years after the event. And when it's a coincidence, it's conciding with Branimir Glavas coming out of HDZ. The question is sought by the Croatian public. Today, this issue needs to be further explained and answered because all that happens with the request itself during and during the investigation process creates perception, and perhaps in reality it is that it is shown that the judicial authorities do not always act autonomously from the day-to-day policy. Namely, only a decision in the Parliament to withdraw immunity and launch an investigation and detain the suspect in the investigation must not give or send a message that there are different criteria in this House, no matter what I think of Mr. Glavas or any of us. This team is really in a position to decide on a decision, and then to change our position on the proposal for a turn of the HDZ Club. In my personal opinion, if immunity is removed from the agent regardless of the form in which the possibility of judicial authorities being used by all institutes in the investigation process could be qualified as interference in the investigation. I repeat, the post-festum we decide on the request and the proposal. Therefore, the opinion of the SDP club is that no policy influence on the behaviour of the judicial authorities is of no interest to any of us, is of no interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and, in our opinion, it is least of the interest to Mr Branimir Glavas and his defence. Our point of view is that the defence interest and Branimir Glavas are determined and determined who is responsible for the crime as soon as possible. Sticking to the practices of the Croatian Parliament and the principles that have been valid so far in this Croatian SDP Club Assembly will support the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the court's request. We think the court has enough knowledge, the ability to conduct the process in the interest of justice and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75225	Thank you very much. There is one correction, Mr Miroslav Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a correction to the inaccuracy of my colleague, Leka. He mentioned here consistency in parliamentary practice when it comes to taking away immunity. It must be admitted that here we are talking about something that the parliamentary practice in this country has not yet been met, and that is a request for detention. So we can't be consistent with something, in some practice that hasn't happened yet. Secondly, he mentioned that the SDP club does not want to be in service of the HDZ club's needs. However, it is in fact that the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided at the request of the State, on the request of the State Attorney's Office. The State's Attorney's Office is served as well as any party in the process of what is prescribed by law even, which is to be used by all authorised means for the benefit of their client. Therefore, I would personally be very, not thinking that we are serving the needs, serving the needs of the HDZ Club, but actually welcoming the need of the HDZ Club to see our mistake and error of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and to admit it, and then it would not be bad for us to admit the same mistake, and I think that this is why we are not serving the needs of the HDZ Club, but actually thanking the dear God that he has enlightened them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75227	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75228	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS club is certainly not one of those clubs that should be the first to talk about this and the question is whether you should talk at all. But I decided to say a few words on behalf of the club. First of all, to repeat something that's already been said here. We are not here to judge, nor to accuse, and as things stand, the mood of cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you, cadiya says Mak Dizdar. And this Parliament if it wants the judiciary, and even about such a delicate one, and I understand that it is delicate for many reasons, would have to do what only it can do, and that is to discuss the scale of things leave the court, and do what it can do, and that is to see if it was wrong in the event of a debate... if he has made a mistake and how to remove these mistakes and to make a decision on the removal of immunity on the other hand. [[You don't understand.]] This is how many people who have debated here have actually taken over a role that doesn't belong to them. I'd have a lot of reasons to speak one way, but I won't say one word. I'll only speak for the fact that if it is necessary to determine that a crime has been committed and it is discovered that it has been committed, in this direction I'll talk about it, but in another place, I don't think that's what we should talk about here. But bringing out the elements of the defense or the elements of the charge to me as a representative of the SDSS Club doesn't come to mind and I'd be in the most direct conflict with what I might want, which would be my wish and with what the court should actually do as a job. And that's why, if I can, and I know I can't, I'll plead to let things go to court anyway. Let the court do its part of the job, get the D.A.'s office to do its job, get the police to do their part of the job when she hasn't done it in 15 years. Or if we want, we can get involved for the next 15 years. The way things are going, it looks like we're getting involved again for the next 15 years. Why, I don't know. If anyone was, six or ten were allowed to defend themselves with freedom, with someone's mercy, and we will again make decisions here with someone's mercy. It's not a thing we can afford here. I know a few cases in which someone's mercy has ruled whether someone will be in custody or out of custody. I know a few times when political opportunism ruled in that, but that certainly didn't help make our judiciary stronger. And for that reason, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say, without a fair policy and the justice of a run-of-the-mill policy, there are no justices that can do their job properly. Also without a policy that will be consistent in its justice and in its letting the judiciary do its job, there is also no, and even when it goes to the harm of those who do so. With so many or so votes, with this or that kind of coalition, but I think we've now reached the moment at which what represents our country's pillar, and one of those is certainly the judiciary, cannot be undermined by that kind of calculation. And for this reason, colleagues and colleagues, the SDSS Club will not vote on this conclusion for two reasons, that is, this proposal. First, because he would not want this Chamber and this public to leave with the conclusion that these three MPs led by special interests wanted to do something that should be done by the court and what everyone else in this House should do. And secondly, we won't plead because we don't want the political calculations to go any way that they can, for some political moment, go too far before what we think they are, and that's that the Imperative Justice is going to judge according to the letter of the law. We'll be in this hall, but we won't be against it, but we'll do what we have to do, and we'll let our judiciary do what it couldn't do for 15 years with the belief that in the next 15 years, in this case or any other case, they'll be able to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75229	We have three corrections. First Mr. Ivo Lonchart.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75230	I apologize to this House for not being able to speak in such a crying tone as Mr. MP once said behind the pay phone. But here he spoke of a just and consistent policy and set up a very malicious and false doubt as to whether this should be spoken of and that he would speak of these crimes elsewhere. Since this is enough malice, I hope that in this second place, and also in the Croatian Parliament, he will speak also in the crimes in Lovas where 64 people died in the most cruel way in the mine field, and the participant of these crimes is one to vote "doctor" who there "healed" the innocent Croatian massacred people in the Chetnik uniform and with Kalashnikov. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75231	This isn't a correction to an incorrect quote. It's some thesis, a claim. Miroslav Rozic, please. Same rectification of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will indeed correct the incorrect assumption in which Mr. Pupovac said that we would get involved in a mistake for the next 15 years by correcting or changing the decision of the Mandate Immunity Commission. Unfortunately, however, we have been involved in a mistake for the next 15 years, and perhaps more when the Court of Justice took over the power of the court and decided to decide on the detention of a representative. And that's just a lawyer at the request, even if it's the state's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75233	And another correction. Mr Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct an esteemed colleague who said incorrectly that this job, therefore, could be done by the court itself. Well, that's exactly what's wrong, and it needs to be fixed. Therefore, parliamentary immunity is a constitutional category, and according to the Mandate of the Immunity Commission, only a representative body can, therefore, be discussed by the Croatian Parliament, and it does so. And of course it does not prejudge the future judicial decision in terms of the independence of the judiciary and the judicial authority as the third dimension or the division of the authorities in the Republic of Croatia. I think it was supposed to be that quote that was re-corrected twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75235	And the last club, PGS, SBHS and MDS, Mr. Representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75236	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The regional party club will support the decision of the Mandate Immunity Commission as a whole. I regret, most sincerely regret the change in HDZ's position on this matter. I can imagine why this change occurred. I wouldn't be happy to see Mr. Glavas die on a hunger strike either. I can imagine there are other reasons, but we must maintain the equality of all citizens in judicial proceedings in this building. Whether you want it or not, this decision will be interpreted not only here but much wider as a debacle of Croatian politics. Whether you want to or not it's a matter of the integrity of the rule of law. Whether you want it or not, this will be interpreted in a way that in the Croatian government there is not enough power to deal with the issue of legal certainty and that is very bad for this government, and for Croatia even more. There are times when we must pass the test of courage. This is one such moment so I would appeal to those who have made a decision to change, in this case that they really think about what they've done because they're going to do very much damage. We're going two steps back. That's very bad, and I don't think we should do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75237	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75238	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm glad that's exactly what I'm talking to this High House after my fellow Banca because I don't share his opinion simply. In fact, the European Parliament has conducted a very serious study of the immunity system in the member states of the European Union at the time. There were 15 of them, and it was published, even available on the Internet, so a colleague, Vesni Pusic and his colleagues, would suggest that they look at it to see how large dilemmas are when it comes to the abolition of immunity, especially for the detention of members of parliaments. The situation is such that the Mediterranean pool countries are seeking a secret vote, so this applies to Spain, Greece and Italy, as well as other Mediterranean countries. Sweden is looking for a 5/6-inch majority in the elimination of immunity. The two countries, Ireland and the UK, do not allow the closure of parliamentary parliaments in the paurin law at all, the one who would have requested it should and had been liquidated. So this is about the fact that it's completely indisputable that members of this House should not enjoy any legal privilege because when it comes to criminal responsibility. Moreover, I am prone to those demands that from the Croatian Parliament, from Croatia, or our Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, provisions to seek the abolition of immunity should be thrown out when it comes to criminal persecution, especially when parliamentary deputies are caught and flagrands for criminal offences for which prison sentences are scheduled for more than 5 years. The other thing is that around this whole case was created a kind of moral panic, so one prominent Croatian columnist and former political prisoner wrote a column a few days ago saying that even better to have Glavas die in prison than to have the State's Attorney's office give up his prosecution for fear of starving him. So this is about one serious problem, and it's a good thing HDZ thought twice and changed its earlier attitude. My colleague Pero Kovacevic and I pointed to this at the 1st session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and on Croatian television from Mr Mislav Baga, we were accused of dealing with legal jokes. Since Bago is not a highly educated man in general he can't understand what he's talking about, and what's interesting is that Croatia's public television has not announced any denials in relation to his legal tricks. So, there's a climate that's completely irrational. I would say that I sincerely support the proposal put forward by the president of this High House on behalf of the HDZ Club for a number of reasons. Three are the key. We are witnessing a very interesting capillary revision of modern Croatian history. Three are the sources of that audit. First, the Hague tribunal prosecutor's office, which had the ambition to write modern history from the first moment on, was also used by protected witnesses, informants, selective use of sources of different documents, and about a month ago or about a month and a half ago when I went to see the state's attorney's office in the case of Cacic then showed me, then the state's attorney commended us that he would get a line of access to the Hague prosecution's documentation, was about 9 and a half million documents. There is a theoretical possibility that each of us is suspicious if the issue of responsibility for war crimes is widely defined. A second source of this modern revision of modern Croatian history is being created in modern Serbia's paradigm text on what direction this revision should go, according to Dobrica Ćosic in Podgorica, titled "At the end of the 20th century, the Serbian people suffered a historic defeat". I'll just read the last sentence of that very educational essay in which it's also used... which was quoted there by the famous liberal and possible poet Zlatko Kramaric. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says this: "I have not yet reached the truth that makes me calm, but I am convinced that at the end of the 20th century Serbs need to see an example of how to win a lost war in peace, and Serbs are not just losers. Some national defeats in this century's dialectic history will turn into major Serbian victories and advantages for the current winners in the next century. No victory, no defeat is final in the historical existence of the people." The third source of the revision of modern history is among us. So from the the thesis that the embargo was in the best interests of the victims of large-scale Serbian aggression, especially in the interest of us Croats and Bosniaks in Bosnia and Herzegovina until the people who were at the head of diplomacy at the time when the Yugoslav People's Army went on a criminal march in the Republic of Croatia today to undeclared war heroes and ministers who saved Croatia and Croatia to a whole series of new publicity, new war documents factories, to the creation of large narratives of which I certainly want to make my position very clear about these cases that are involved in so-called war documents. You're in charge of this case. I personally think that both rhetorically and essentially should change and not talk more about the selotep affair and the garage affair than that we should talk about crimes on Drava and crimes in the garage, that's what they're saying. However, when we talk about this, we who have advocated a solution that will be proposed today and hope to adopt it we have come from some undisputed facts when it comes to Branimir Glavas. The first of these fact that he has repeatedly shown confidence in the rule of law. The second is the fact that the Hague tribunal must serve as a minimum criterion for our behaviour in eliminating immunity. You known during the Hague prosecution investigation were these charges were secret, so these people weren't detained. So I think we'd have a similar criterion. No one should even ask almost whether immunity should be lifted for carrying out investigations of criminal proceedings, etc. Secondly, it is undeniable that Branimir Glavas played a very positive role in the democratic reform of the Croatian Democratic Union. That should also be clearly discussed. The man who helped defeat a dark structure within the old HDZ also deserves to be very honest with some form of public recognition. Finally, what's most important when it comes to the State's Attorney's Office. I am very pleased to see today that the State's Attorney's Office is requesting a review of the court's full decision to punish Predrag Matjejic's prison sentence for 5 months. It's just a priority system. I finally want to tell the State's Attorney's Office, and I'm publicly calling him here again until he deals with the crimes of the Yugoslav People's Army, the command and the army we'll be in some way hostages of this type of very dangerous audit process. Therefore, in order to avoid confusion, I am absolutely for punishing every crime, but I certainly do not agree to the the thesis about which they spoke about about about the same level of education and guidance in fact Vesna Pusic and Mislav Bago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75239	Replica. Dear Representative Momir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, in the vast majority, agree with what Honorable colleague Letica said especially in the fact that he pointed out his surprise that some highly educated members of this Parliament are chasing the procedure. So when they talk about meddling in the judiciary, when this Parliament brings something that is but a couple of excellent matters to Parliament, which is the question of the immunity of its members. It's all over the world. What particularly bothers me is that the same implicitly or explicitly threatens some world or some world rating in this regard and let’s not fool ourselves. How does such assessments of the world come about because they again have the same picture of both Parliament and the rule of law as to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75241	Replication response. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75242	The most difficult thing is to respond to replicas compared to the attitudes a man agrees with. My colleague Zuzul. You're absolutely right and there were cases like this when I wrote about it the other day when great moral tycoons and moral verticals experienced this dark autumn. Therefore, I would once again appeal to a little modesty. A little modesty. You'd almost suggest that to yourself because I'm not too intellectually modest either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75243	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Happy Ferenchuck.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75244	Your Honor, Mr. President. I must unfortunately warn you of the violation of Rule 213. You are under the responsibility of protecting the integrity of parliamentary representatives from insulting their colleagues. So Mr. Letica said that Mr. Bago is an uneducated man and that Vesna Pusic is just as he is. Mrs. Pusic is a highly educated person and Mr. Letica speaks of her education in her own way, so I ask you to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75245	Okay. I understood it in another way as one figure in terms of this subject of guidance, not in terms of a low value...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75246	Thank you, Mr. President. You thought right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75247	Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75248	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We ended last session of the 22nd session of the Croatian Parliament on Friday. On Friday night, the Osijek police submitted a request to the County's Osijek State Attorney for the conduct of detention. The county's state's attorney on the weekends to the state's attorney, and this Monday, he asked the parliament to decide on the request as early as Tuesday. So, if the state's attorney made a mistake in asking why this Croatian Parliament waited and allowed a parliamentary representative to be in jail for 20 days. Why did the HDZ Representatives' Club not submit this motion for a decision immediately the next day and call the Assembly and point to an apparent violation of the state's attorney's request? Namely, another question is being asked. Why was Branimir Glavas allowed to spend 20 days in prison if the decision of the Immunity Commission was to blame? And who's going to be responsible for that? Who's gonna make up for the damage if he turns out to be innocent? Now. There's one more question. After this decision, the State's Attorney's office will be pretty demoralized. What happens if the State's Attorney's Office makes a proper request to this House? Are we going to use any legal or political jokes again to get out of this very, very unpleasant situation? You know, this reminds me of the time of '91. the year in Osijek and what a time it was, a little check the newspapers from that time. Prior to the murder of police chief Joseph Reichl Kira, the Secretariat of the People's Defence of Osijek sent an interesting statement from our media. In a statement, the secretariat urged citizens not to trust the Osijek police and to inform the secretariat in future all security information. One state institution urged citizens not to trust another Croatian institution. The president of the Eastern Slavonia Crisis Station then kept his mouth shut. He didn't react.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75249	Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt, stop. I'm interrupting this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75250	I won't stop. No, I don't. I won't stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75251	You won't... Stop when I tell you. I'm giving you a warning. You disrespect the president. If you continue, I'll give you a second warning and take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75252	So what? I'm not talking about you. Let me finish my...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75253	No, I don't. I'm taking away your... I'm giving you a second warning about taking away your word. Please sit down. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75254	It's a shame. It's a shame. Don't point your finger at me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75256	Because you'll end up as soon as you need to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75257	Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt. I've already given you a warning about taking away your word. I can't give you anything anymore. I can't give you anything. I'm not gonna throw you out on guard because that's what it would be, it wouldn't be for a lady anyway. And what you do with your anger and regret about being an incompetent minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75258	Who gives you their word?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75259	I give myself my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75260	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75261	Yeah, yeah. Here you go. Calm your nerves down. Here you go. ... Learn order and elementary rules. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague of Doric's. Here you go. Here's your colleague, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75262	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I am one of those who have considered whether or not to apply, but when I have followed a little, I have already begun the course of this debate I decided to report anyway. I wouldn't want to be the hostage of neither this Parliament nor our board, not a single club that made a strong salad, and now I'm in a very unusual situation. A moment ago, Mr. Letica was talking about everything and everything, so even my friend Cacic mentioned it at this point, and you didn't allow your colleague, Skara-Ozbolt, to continue as she began.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75263	Yeah, 'cause she got a warning and she got a word-out warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75264	Namely, colleagues and colleagues, in the Republic of Croatia during the 1991 to 1995 war, there were 7,000 civilian war victims and there were almost equal numbers of military war victims. The vast majority of these civilian war victims suffered as a result of clearly war crimes, and even one large part of those we quote will not be the result of abuse and murder in prisons and camps. Therefore, they are war crimes. And what does one citizen want in a postwar period of one rule of law? He's asking for those crimes to be investigated. They're asking for a lead on the criminals and they're asking for those criminals to be convicted. I don't share these sacrifices by nationality or in any other way but solely in the way I've just said it. And it is doubtless that there have been such war crimes in the city of Osijek and what we have now tried in this debate to determine which direction to work further in this House. The rule of law has launched an investigation and the rule of law expects co-operation with the parliament. Yes, some colleagues laugh, but co-operation with the Parliament has been requested. Do we want to extend our hand to this rule of law, support the rule of law and cooperate with the rule of law? I don't think there's any dilemma here, that the answer can only be yes, yes, and yes. A big mistake was made, I hope it was a lapus when my colleague Pecek said he was being tried here today. I think we need to make that clear. No one's being tried here today and the least of their fellow Glavas. It even bothers me when eight, ten, five are mentioned. How do we know before the trial ends that there were eight, six or twelve. But the co-operation with the judicial authorities certainly is. What we as a Parliament have not done so far and it has been ten years since the war, and if we don't do it now in the next decade it will be even harder and then even more difficult or almost impossible. My colleagues and colleagues, I mentioned 7,000 civilians to most clearly victims of war crimes. I would like to see once the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior, together prepare a report to see how much we have essentially solved these war crimes so far, how much we have found and found and condemned the people responsible for the deaths of those 7,000 civilians and many other soldiers who have also been killed. What percentage have we solved? What's left of it? That's what I'd like to know. I've never had an answer to that question before. ... It can't be. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That absolutely can't be. That's what I'd like us to do, too. It is our task, not to interfere with the judiciary, not to think whether or not to cooperate with judicial authorities as is the case here. Namely, I'm going to skip a series of things that I was going to say here because a good part of it is already covered by colleagues who have spoken but we are colleagues who create the framework of the rule of law. We are the ones who make laws based on which the judicial authorities will judge. We are the ones who clearly decide how executive power will function. So I am really a little sad after listening to this debate where questions about the fundamental principles that we should not even discuss are raised. My colleagues and colleagues, we must show by example how the rule of law works. You know, personally, if anyone called me or suspected of any crime, I would personally suggest that my immunity be removed to get rid of it in court. That's what I think is a moral question, it's a political question, it has to be done that way. So it's not a question of what we do here, and we need to get into it by our own example. What bothers me very much is that my colleagues on the board vote for one variant, and then here we hear today that they accept a completely different option in this process. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I won't be long. Since my colleagues, I've followed closely, I've already covered up some of those things that I wanted to touch, but I think the message is very clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75265	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75266	Thank you very much. If I understand my colleague Doresic correctly, I will quote him, at least what he last said, but in some context that is completely unclear to me. He said, "We must not co-operate with judicial authorities as is the case here." That's what he said. So I really can't understand anyone in this assembly who here today insists so much in that, according to them, insists on that consistency in inconsistency. I can't understand anyone who's just not clear, I'm not going to talk like a fellow Letica about the level of understanding, knowledge or anything else, but the question of deciding on immunity, about taking away immunity. The issue of deciding on the detention of a parliamentary representative under the Constitution of this country and by the laws of this country was given and prescribed in the Croatian Parliament's jurisdiction, not by the judicial authorities. God, whoever's saying that we don't work here with the judicial authorities doesn't actually know, violates the law and the Constitution of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75267	Replica, a replicated representative, Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75268	I signed up for the replica, and it could be a correction to an incorrect quote. A colleague, Doric, said, quotes: "It is doubtless that such war crimes were in Osijek." The entire performance of counterpart Doric was in the sense of the rule of law and not the involvement of the parliament in the work of the judiciary, and this cited statement is in itself a single finding yet to be established. Whether there were such war crimes in Osijek or not, my colleague, Doric, should be determined by the Croatian court, not by us here. And you, if you have any knowledge that it was, then you've had the opportunity to tell that independent court you're so committed to about your findings. The victims of civilians were, and what we said and I speak in public persistently 1250 people of Osijek died in the streets and in the houses, and that to this day no one answered but did. Procedures have been conducted. The military prosecutor's office has conducted procedures in a peaceful reintegration process, and these actions have all been put under the impression that this is an armed rebellion, and this is a more difficult form than a war crime. The president of the County Court recently said on television that he personally re-readed qualifications from war crimes to a more serious form of armed rebellion. And that way no one was responsible for civilian casualties in Osijek. And I hope that this thesis that we all advocate so much that it will finally encourage the judicial authorities to open up the issue of civilian victims in Osijek and that we as a Parliament can also hear and see that for all those killed and killed in Osijek an investigation is opened and proceedings against those who are responsible for it, and everyone has already been in the process of investigating Croatian authorities. Only some have ended up with ad act and political decisions, and that is something inadmissible, and that is the circumstance that should be considered when we talk about the Glavas case and that he should remain in custody. No one here advocates that the Glavas are not tried by the courts, but we advocate that our colleague remain a Croatian general and defender, to defend himself with freedom as everyone else, and we have seen that practice so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75269	Reply to the replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75270	My colleague's point of presentation and I've shortened significantly, so perhaps I was not clear enough, only my colleague Kramarić touched it. I've been talking about the 7,000 civilian war victims I claim to have represented most of the war crimes. And you need to find those criminals, you need to find them... Discover and condemn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The point with me is very clear. This Parliament has done nothing to essentially try to intensify these investigations, speed up investigations and bring these criminals to court. We have never called and called the ministers responsible for these areas, and that is exactly our basic duty as a parliamentary representative. Follow the work of the executive authority and clearly intervene where we see that we need to work differently, better and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75271	The SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75272	Mr. Representative of the SDSS Club, Mr. President of the SDSS Club is looking for a 10 minute break so that he can consult on whether there are any conditions to continue working together with everyone else here in the Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75273	HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75274	The same thing on behalf of the HDZ Club is looking for a 10-minute break... I'm looking for the same 10-minute break of the HDZ Club to consult on this case. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]] [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75275	HDZ Club, this SDP. It doesn't bother you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75276	On behalf of the SDP Club On behalf of the SDP Club, we're also looking for a break from 10 minutes for consultation. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75277	HNS?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75278	On behalf of the HNS Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75279	So wait, gentlemen, where are you going, ladies? [[The intruders don't understand.]] Who authorized your break? So you suggested a break, requested. How do you know the break will be approved? So where are you going, so where are you going? [[The intruders don't understand.]] What's your hurry? 18 and Come on, fine, fine. [[Intruder: President and we are looking for a break.]] [[Intruder: I HSP.]] And HSP. In 10 minutes. We're continuing the session. SDSS Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75281	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75282	A little louder if you can get in. Louder!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75283	Mr. President, I am certainly among the people who understand the weight of what we are discussing today. From all aspects, from party to personal, but Mr. President regardless of the weight of what is happening in this assembly over the past few hours, one thing must not be missed and that is that it cannot be selectively sanctioned by MPs as they speak. One cannot be allowed to be offended by one MP. This can be done in the boulevard type newspaper, on the radio and television stations of the boulevard type and local birts. But in the Croatian Parliament, MPs are offended by the way the Vice-President of the Parliament and my colleague from the university and a respected scientist in Croatia and outside Croatia are not allowed, even if he who did so did not know what he was doing and who he was dealing with. But it's yours, Mr. President, not to let that happen. Exactly so that we can be sober and stay until the last and listen to each other and do what we need to do regardless of the differences that we share in this case. Second Mr. President. On many occasions, I have told you both in writing and verbally about the violations and the use of hate speech in this House to representatives of the SDSS of individual representatives. You, Mr. President, have not deigned to react in an adequate manner. Although we have committed ourselves in a series of Bureau sessions and committed ourselves not only to the Code of Respect of Rules, but to the code of what we are going to say here. I abstained from saying one word about my fellow representative, Glavas, that could go to his harm here from this pay phone. But you've allowed individual MPs to sue and sue. That's how you created the conditions under which we representatives of the SDSS can consider whether it makes sense for us to stay and do what we're supposed to do. We've thought about it in this apartment, Mr. President, we believe you're going to do what you have to do to the end, and you're going to talk to people who do it over and over again, and you're going to be sanctioned not as far as Vesna Skarre Ozbolt was, but as required by the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75284	Mr. Pupovac, I reacted about Vice President Vesna Pusic and stated that it was an idea that I, by my understanding and the perception of the representative, was speaking. He was talking about, he valued the question of her orientation to the immunity institutes and so on. I don't tolerate hate speech, and I don't allow it. I'm sanctioning it. I'm also a warner. I can't be a guard who and I won't be a guard who's going to warn someone other than by warning MPs to stick to tolerance, to stick to it. As for MP Vesna Škara Ozbolt, again and again, in each of her steps, she defames me, accuses me, insults me, slanders me, and constantly haunts me and suspects me and accuses me of being responsible for my duties and duties for the war crimes committed on the principle of command responsibility. No one in the public does that. It's not even the state's bodies, it's just an esteemed and respected representative who's always picking on me like that and wants me to be publicly in charge that I'm the one responsible for war crimes. It's her style. I, like the President of the Parliament, cannot and must not tolerate and tolerate such style and conduct where I am publicly belittled, insulted, accused and slandered that I am responsible for a war crime. Did she say the other day that I should take the tape off my mouth and talk about war crimes and what I'm responsible for? HDZ representative club, respected representative Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think this day, the first day after a little longer session of the Croatian Parliament should end in total for all acceptable ways. I agree with a great deal of what my colleague Pupovci said. I agree with what my colleague Pupovac said because there is sometimes no hearing or hearing what is being thrown and what words are being used in relation to MPs and MPs, so we all need a dose of tolerance to hear each other's conflict if we need one democratic level of tolerance, not to offend each other. Therefore, I agree so much with his intervention. . /. In view of this item of the agenda that we had here today, the position of the Croatian Democratic Community remains as stated by the President of the Parliament on behalf of the club, which is that the agreement on the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission regarding the need for the detention of Mr Glavas for possible influence for witnesses and on, that the consent to open an investigation under all these proposals made by the State Attorney's Office and the investigative judge is not given consent to the qualification of influence, because of the gravity of the action. I think we're clear here. Because the practice of courting in the Republic of Croatia is different and that of crimes related to war crimes against the civilian population is different. We cannot interfere with how individual courts or judicial authorities will deal with a particular issue in general. But we can plead to level practice with everyone, and no other qualifications should be additionally given this way, this one was on this side, this one was on that side, this one was on that side. War crimes is a war crime anyone can do. So, let it be even, we want it. Of course, we can't command anyone here or do that, but we can wish that the case law is special about such acts of serious, serious crime to be evened out so that everyone before the law is equal. Here, that is the position of the Croatian Democratic Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75286	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Srecko Ferenčak. Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75287	This was my idea to tell you. I don't understand why you tolerate Mr. Lonchar's attacks all the time, who commented after Mr. Pupavec's arrival that we're tenants again in his house, I don't know what that means to him, who's commenting on Mr. Bebić's allegations, and now he's reporting again. So please give him a warning once. If you told Mrs. Scare-Ozbolt she had to go out and she and him kicked him out, he deserved with his behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75288	I'm not the one who said he was going out...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75289	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75290	Order! Order! [[I beg you, Mr. President...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75291	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75292	A fellow Loncar, fellow Loncar Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75293	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75294	You can't be a colleague of Ferenchuck's. You listed the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'll answer whether or not there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have not even called for a specific appropriate provision. In which, you would now say that later. I can't give you an explanation, illustrate why you should specify exactly where it is and what it clearly says. I'm warning you. You guys stick to the line, too. Don't throw it away. I will sanction those who truly go beyond measure. SDP club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75295	Mr. President, first of all, let me tell you that we just had an inflagrant case as to how you have double criteria for parliamentary agents. Once I ask you peace, and the other one a reminder. For this reason, I must say that the SDP club really expresses its regret about the atmosphere, mutual tolerance and allowing the Presidential Table for the Rules of Procedure to die if it is in the party interest of the President's desk.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75296	I'm removing those criticisms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75297	The topic we have just finished discussing, it is one thing, it really speaks about the responsibility of every representative and every club not only for this case, but for keeping the principles in the Republic of Croatia. And principles not only written down but which we want to implement for our sake. If Mr. Chairman, or President of the Croatian Parliament, refuses that in the application of the Rules of Procedure there has been an obvious application by different marches, then there is really no point in talking, because there is no communication. In a situation like this, they usually say they're smarter off.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75298	Comrade Leko, don't give me any proof of the Rules of Procedure. You have the same exact rights as I have the rights. I'm giving explanations if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure I'm giving, peace please, peace please. He won't talk, he'll talk when he's chairing that word. And when the chairman asks the speaker to stop, then the Rules of Procedure should be stopped. I explain. You, if you tell me as an agent that I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure, indicate what I'm in violation of. I'm obliged to give an explanation for that. If you are not satisfied with this explanation then I can, then an opinion will be asked from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And you can't tell me in principle about me, in principle, how to do the doctoring and invite me to repent with ashes when I'm to blame for breaking the Rules of Procedure in permanent principle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75299	Mr. President, how much longer can I tell you?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75300	Here you go. I'll give you at that time you have until the time. I'm just saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75301	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you would like to discuss our debate on the situation in Parliament with the legal type that you have violated the provision of Article 214. Rules of Procedure. It's just not enough. You used your powers on two arches. And that's what I want to tell you in front of the Parliament and in front of the Croatian public. If you don't agree to go out for a pay phone, give me and myself the same chance and we'll discuss it the same way. Don't use it when I'm talking to Parliament's representative, the Rules of Procedure, so that you can be superior. It's not parliamentaryism. That's what I want to tell you, and you think what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75302	Not my colleague, Leko. Let's make a deal. I'd like to make a deal with my colleague, Leko. I am the President of the Parliament and I chair. You're not gonna teach me and you're not gonna doctor me. You stopped, you came and you said you wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, that I hurt the Rules of Procedure. That's what you brought out. I say in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that I am not and there is no further, we will continue to go to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75303	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I believe in the judgment of every member of the Croatian Parliament, that your position is not a stronger argument. I believe that people in the Croatian Parliament can judge for themselves, that is the most important thing to me, not what you are going to tell me. I'm convinced everyone knows you used the Rules of Procedure selectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75304	Thank you very much. Mr Leko, as provided for in Article 209, who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President shall give the order as soon as this request has been made. ... Peace, please! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Order! What are we going to do with these incursions? ... So you can talk...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me, Mr. Racan? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What did you just say? What did you throw me? ... Yeah, on behalf of the clubs. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Peace, please! Comrade Rachan, I warn you, telling me to speak nonsense is incorrect. ... So he can speak for the club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, you can't come up on behalf of the club and talk to me and doctor me here and accuse me of breaking the Rules of Procedure. ... HNS. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Vice-President, respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go. You won't come here and listen and then start insulting me and attacking me. ... Well, you won't come and insult me and attack me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You insult and attack, you won't, and I won't let anyone do that. I won't let anyone. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75305	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. After a break and a consultation at the club about the situation that occurred in Parliament. It is obvious that, given the tense atmosphere in the assembly, there has been an insult to individual representatives, with the President and President of the Parliament acting selectively in the opinion of our HNS club, so in some cases he sanctioned it, in some cases he did not. I must say that here, in the first place, we want to say something about intervention, that is to say, the prevention of MP Scare Ozbolt in her presentation, because we believe that, regardless of what you Mr. President think about whether what she's saying is eating and not true, you have to admit that many of us, especially me, have suffered a lot of food and the untruths of flagrant untruths, and even in today's debate almost ridyculous, ridiculous untruths from different MPs, but the only argument against it is not that anyone is forbidden to speak but to use a counter argument. Among the MPs and MPs in this House, regardless of the parties, as far as people are concerned, there are many that I highly appreciate in all parties, there are many that I despise and many that I have no opinion of because I do not know them enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75306	Well, we'll speak nicely in the Croatian Parliament that there are representatives you despise.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75307	Yeah, I'll tell you all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75308	It's hate speech, and I'm not gonna let that talk happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75309	It's not hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75310	I won't allow that kind of speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75311	So now you're gonna let me say...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75312	I won't let you speak like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75313	To say to the end you'll let me, because you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75314	I won't let you because I'll deny you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75315	...because you've used too much evil,...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75316	I'll deny you my word. I'll deny you one more word. You will not order your representatives to despise your MPs. I'm warning you. You're getting a warning. If you continue, I'll take away your word warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75317	I'll continue, of course. Listen to what I'm saying, and you'll understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75318	I hear perfectly well. You won't insult the MPs to despise them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75319	I was talking about them as people. And as far as I'm concerned, that's exactly where I'm doing that distinction. So I'm making a distinction about what you personally might think of Mrs. Scare Ossbolt as a person...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75320	We won't discuss it. It's not a matter of continuance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75321	But as Parliamentarians, so more important to me. I personally have very different opinions on parliamentary representatives as people, but as Parliamentarians, I value everything equally and respect them equally in their capacity as parliamentary representatives and within that I, like you, and everyone else in this House, can use only the power of argument and not the argument of force. In other words, he can only oppose his argument, not oppose the fact that he makes it impossible for a man to say what he wants as a parliamentary representative. What do you personally think of one of us, including Mrs. Scare Ozbolt, is your private matter, you have absolutely the right to do that. As for us as advocates, you have us respecting everything just as we have each other as advocates to respect everything equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75322	So don't tell them to despise them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75323	And the third point... No, as agents, no. And as people, I have the right to my opinion of whatever I want, and no one can take that away from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75324	You have the right to have your opinion here in the Croatian Parliament that you despise MPs as people. Great!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75325	And the third point is that this particular case about the poor conduct of the assembly session, about the selective application of the Rules of Procedure, threatens to cloud the measure of our debate, to cloud what we really need to discuss today, and to decide whether this Parliament is capable and able to allow the country's judiciary to do its job, or whether this Parliament will decide to impose political pressure on the judiciary to not be able to decide its business autonomously. I'm appealing to you to get back to that debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75326	Yeah. Just before that, we'll sort something out. I am obliged to provide explanations on the views and application of the Rules of Procedure and to conduct the session and I am giving you these explanations. You've criticised me, too, it's been done before by my colleague Leko, that I selectively apply disciplinary sanctions against... My colleague Racan, you've already made your point and qualified mine with a loud adjective who, I hope, will no longer come out to you next time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's the last time you've ever had that out of your system, that you've been carelessly out of it. I've never told you or thrown you into our 15, 20 years, so I hope you've made your mistake too. ... No, I don't lose my temper, I don't lose my temper, but it's an old joke that you're already serving, tried, that, we have years when I, when you do something, not to say, I won't say what you told me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When I point that out, you say he's losing his temper. I'm not losing my temper. I'm not losing my temper. I'm not losing my temper. I can't, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not here as president of the name and last name. I'm speaking from this duty. I'm obliged to give an explanation. If a representative, so was he speaking on behalf of the club, thus criticising and accusing me of selectively applying the Rules of Procedure, that some, to do it in a different way than I should have explained. ... You have, of course, only opinion is not an insult. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What you're... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, but I'm giving an explanation for that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm giving an explanation. There is a provision of the Rules of Procedure which...... I'm giving an explanation for that. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And as for this, colleague Vesna Pusic, I am exposed every day... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Peace, please! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Order there! I'm... Order there! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'm exposed, an advocate who starts talking, and in the first sentence, she starts to disrespect me and insult me. That's not criticism. It's to me, it's to insult. Let's move on. IDS club. IDS club, please. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75327	Your Honor, I don't know if I can speak under these circumstances, but I just want to notice as well as my predecessors that a representative's dignity should be protected. It is clear that it is worth using the institutions of the Rules of Procedure, but how? Not selectively but equally, no matter who is from which political option or party comes. The fact that the other side insults me personally, spits, disrespects me, that's what I'm already taught. I'm almost vaccinated. But you know what offends you? When someone imputes an act of high treason, hatred for their people, exclusion and so forth. I want some MPs who gave it to me, just to say that Cain doesn't hate anyone and I absolutely agree with Mrs Pusic's attitude that she said that what happens at 6 and 58 wants to cloud the scale of things. I have a sort of impression after this afternoon's debate that the opposition who put Glavas in custody, and now that the HDZ is the one who gets him out of custody, it's better to say save him. But on the other hand, if you look at media comments, then they say, "The Croatian Parliament defends the state's attorneys, witnesses to detention, suspects to freedom, etc.". This is today's politics. I expect, among other things, the president of the state probably, but what may be far more serious, which this case may take over from The Hague tomorrow, although I have the impression that he wanted to test the credibility of the Croatian judiciary and Croatian politics through the same. I'm not gonna compare what happened this afternoon in Parliament to Monty Payton or this Moira Orpheus, but you know what I'm gonna say? What we're doing is two steps back. All this Mr. Sanader, what HDZ has done in the last three years, has almost fallen into the water. The doctrine of Judge Vukovic is revived that it is not possible to commit a crime in the defence war. Absolutely, what Mr. Kramarić was talking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75328	And why is that now?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75329	... onpresuming innocence as a universal principle, I support it 100%. But what we're doing, I'm afraid it's precedent. I have the impression that the HDZ here is generous, but in this way it devastates both Croatia and Mr. Glavas. On the other hand, the government also knows that the judge cannot hesitate. He was in custody, he was out of custody, he's in the same place. This is one word, gentlemen, one gambling act. If it's politics, it's what we do. We're playing in the end and with Mr. Glavas. I know that no one here in this House, especially not from HDZ, wants to not give God to Glavas something higher and a higher hunger strike happens. No one wants Mr. Glavas to become a myth, and on the other hand, we all know that the court will do its part. I also believe that he should not have been isolated from this debate, no matter what the decision will be in the end. Once again, the election, by my impression, got involved in politics. Politics will once again determine the court's behaviour and the question is whether our credibility as a legislative body will capitulate. The conclusion can only be one thing. The Croatian judiciary has been debunked, and what we are doing is disabling those sacred principles of trust in the rule of law. One word, I think you HDZ gentlemen are wrong about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75330	Club... , Honorable Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The name of the club is the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja. I'll write to you so that...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75332	Thank you very much. It's gonna matter to me, I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75333	So you can say it and you can read the real name, and you can read the abbreviations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75334	Yes, I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75335	But here I would like to appeal actually to all the MPs, so here I am. Well, a lot of times here in some debate that may have and comments about the emotional and the man's outings, and then trips and some insults and me and it happened to me, but there's a way when even the one who runs Parliament's sessions and when they're wrong because it's humanly wrong, I'm not talking right now in this particular case and I'm not going in at all whether it was wrong or not, but thank God we both have a Committee on the Constitution, a Rulesman and a political system that can hold its own session, which can listen to phonograms and which can ultimately assess whether it was in the Rules of Procedure or not, therefore, and can give about all this court. And I think here's an hour we've been actually discussing it, I'm not saying that we shouldn't discuss this when things like this happen especially offensively, but we also have on the agenda one personal to me, my club, and I believe most of the representatives in the Croatian Assembly really important topic. For the first time, we are actually discussing the request of a state attorney, i.e. a lawyer's office and an investigative judge on the detention of a parliamentary representative, the detention of something related to the Homeland War, something related to a war crime. Not getting into this every crime needs to be sanctioned, so to detect, locate, sanction it, it should have been done long ago and in a court case really not going in, and starting from the point of view exactly what I said, I also condemn every war crime and I believe that every war crime should be investigated and sanctioned and finally when it is determined who the perpetrator is to judge, but after individualization. He needs to know exactly who did it. And here's the thing that I can once again appeal that this debate is going in the direction that we all, in fact, do come out of this pause with dignity and the reasons why the break is wanted, to go back to the topic and finally bring the subject to an end and vote tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75336	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75337	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament is a representative body of citizens, the holder of the legislative authority and, in accordance with our Constitution and the fundamental democratic principles, we must be in a position to respect the division of power, the trio of government on one hand and not only that. As a legislative and representative body of government, we must allow the other two members of the government to do their job in this respect in no way, nor in this House can it be turned into a courtroom, it must not become a prosecutor or a judge. The Parliament must carry out each other's tasks, it must create preconditions for the implementation of the law and that the judicial authority is actually doing its job. In other words, I must say that no matter who committed it should always be investigated, it is necessary to individualise it because the perpetrator of a war crime has his own name and last name, of course he should be prosecuted, in a court procedure to prove guilty of who committed it, and if it is proven then punish him, or sanction him. As the third should be indicated, it is possible in the defence war to commit a war crime, but it is not good, and it must not be generalised itself by the defensive Homeland War as one founded on war crimes, and that is why it is important for us to process war crimes ourselves, to bring the perpetrators to justice and to sanction themselves. Fourth. When it comes to a particular situation, there is no doubt in Osijek that there has been a war crime against the civilian population and that there have been crimes against humanitarian law as well as crimes committed in the war, and in such a situation some of these things need not be proven at all, they are notorous facts, they are known. What is not known is not known who are the perpetrators of these crimes and it is a shame that it has been so long, and that it has not been processed, sanctioned, and perpetrators, or mines punished, because in this way it would actually put itself in a position to have an argument more, to justify the justification of the Homeland War and everything that was waged by the Homeland War. Five. When a situation like us happens, in which we are now, it is first necessary to conclude that a fellow representative of Branimir Glavas is immune and he has no immunity. We don't discuss immunity, we discuss something else. If, after an immunity has been removed on the basis of an authorized body, we approve the detention or even more precisely whether the conditions for the Assembly to approve the execution of the arrest solution have been met. What is important is to indicate such a solution when it comes to the investigation process is brought by an investigative judge and no one has the opportunity to make such a solution for him. Second, it is important to point out a proposal for a solution that opens up detention can be given by the prosecution and no one can dispute that right, and what is the obligation of the Croatian Parliament is to decide when a solution is made. However, if the Parliament decides that it will not confirm a solution opening the detention or instituting the detention of a person, it will also bear the burden of political responsibility, which is why it did not allow the judicial authority to carry out its part of the work, and we must also be aware of these facts in a concrete situation. What is extremely important in this situation is to create a court-wide possibility that, in principle, the economy, the efficiency of the court, but not at the expense of the application of the law and... the evidence enables and implements the process, determines the responsibility and if it determines the responsibility for those who have committed the act sanctioned, or bring the appropriate punishment, and if it does not determine, or for those others who are potentially accused, and are not guilty of being released and, of course, to enable them to have any satisfaction that follows on their own claim relating to the compensation and everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, here it is necessary to be quite precise and quite clear. It seems that in the work of our parliamentary body and also in the awkwardness of calling itself, organising and leading our session we have had small gaps that have a political dimension and can be characterized on one side as clumsy as... the version, on the other hand, as a possibility of political pressure on the judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that today's debate and our decision should put ourselves in a position to put the Croatian Parliament into a constitutional legal position that allows courts to carry out their own and independent work as a parliament at the same time as a representative of citizens and a legislative body to show publicly to everyone that it has actually respected the constitutional legal order, that all citizens are equal before the law and that at the same time the perpetrators of any crime and let alone war crimes be prosecuted and sanctioned if they have done so if they are proven in a court procedure. I think that this thing is very clear and that in such a situation we do not need to pollemize with each other on such issues. There's another question here. To what extent the Parliament can wander in some of these things. Either as Parliament, Plenary Session, or as a working body. I think that in such situations it is necessary to take a far more serious approach in preparing the work of a particular working body or sitting itself to actually examine the procedural, materially legal and of course the political dimensions that are tied up. We must not put ourselves in a position to decide on the principle that we are implementing an appropriate policy, not to implement the laws that we have adopted on the basis of this very policy and to regulate social relations in accordance with what is applicable to democratic society, for the rule of law state in which, of course, social justice is present. I think it's very important, and it seems to me that some of the things that we're reopening today between other things and new proposals aren't actually going in the direction that would confirm this thesis, but exactly the opposite, but about that, of course... on the parliamentary representation of each party or all in the ruling coalitions, they bear their part of responsibility both in relation to the political dimension as a representative of citizens and in relation to a specific case relating to individuals and who are involved in this case and otherwise related to the achievement of the fundamental principle that the rule of law actually carries out its work in accordance with the Constitution and the law adopted and presented with evidence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75338	Thank you. We skipped a little bit, so we'll... with the obvious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75339	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've had on Parliament's presidency a few times exactly a subject that referred to hate speech, and I have no illusions that this composition of the Parliament is something different than that, from our everyday and our society, but in some ways it would really be rude for us to blame others and not know how many times in the media or in some electronic newspaper we recognize hate speech, and that we actually generate it ourselves and that we think it's actually a normal state. My only theoretical dilemma is that I haven't solved yet, is it possible to be intolerant to the intolerant? And that's the problem I'm trying to overcome right now so that, in fact, every time I'm even with those I don't agree with to let them speak and that rightly argument, the force of the argument prevails over the argument of force and even when it does happen in this Parliament when most people can always vote. It's not Wednesday, it's another day. But it won't change reality. But let's go back to this subject that is obviously painful, which is traumatic, and which obviously wasn't exactly the best possible way to show it in the name of the club understood. What I'm almost afraid of is that we don't actually fall into one matrix, which is that in fact those own victims or our own losses in history are being demitized and that we're seeing them as something that's tragic and there in those situations where we're the perpetrators that we're elegantly skipping and that we're suppressing and it's still very and more clear than that everything that's going to be suppressed that when they come back as a boomerang and as an even bigger mortgage of our future. We must not allow the past in any way burdens our future. The guilt comes with the awareness of guilt. With punishment comes the man's ability to be responsible. He means if he agrees to the punishment he admits soon and his ability to face it and our dark sides of what was happening in the recent past. Our dark sides. The one who's committed other crimes they're talking about, it's someone else's dark side. We must have the courage to face our dark side. And we can't do that if he sells moral indolence, political opportunism or commercial interest. If these are the dominants of our behavior today, tomorrow, I'm afraid we won't get far and we'll be returned to the beginning every time. They say wiser people than me, a people who don't learn their history must repeat it so many times until they teach it. That is why I once again appeal that we are never doing anything that will in any way suspend the institutions of this system, not someone else's, but our system. And in these things we must be very delicate and really have a responsibility against that word that we say. And we very often say things that are for the current political liking and that leads us to ideological passion and what I said to the lower floors of our consciousness. And today, unfortunately, there were too many of those lower floors of our consciousness that really turned all of this into one irrational behavior and a little bit of anarchy into our relationship and precisely whether we build trust in institutions or not to build trust in institutions. So I say once again to appeal on behalf of the club, let justice be done even if the world fails, consciousness will not fail, but it will indeed be recorded as how we acted and what attitudes we had. By repeating this case again, it must not be taken as individual, concrete. He actually needs him, he's universal by his own meaning, and just if we read that universal message from that case, then we'll be able to really resolve to stop looking at ourselves exclusively as martyrs and everything that we've done to others from unfortunate circumstances, online history, or I don't know what to just suppress and pretend we don't see each other, especially when we're in a position to be the ones to bring the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75340	Thank you. And the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75341	Mr. President, I'm giving up to bring the end of it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75342	I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. The vote will be later on this agenda item, probably Friday. Tomorrow with that agenda that was on the agenda. What? What? Okay. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75344	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party, we are looking for an explanation regarding media reports. Are we going to vote today on the report of the Mandating Immunity Commission, because it is obviously about the pressure on the Croatian Parliament, the pressure on the judiciary, but on the other hand because pears and apples are being chased. We as well as the Croatian Party of Rights which I have exhibited on the Mandate Immunity Commission, and as the conclusion of the Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed only the procedural part. No one interfered with the metrics. We said it loud and clear. There's a request from the investigating judge to approve the arrest solution. We said we'd approve it. And there came a request from the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek for detention, or for the opening of criminal proceedings and detention. If one detention can't be given two detentions. Various dignitaries about all this are also speculated that regarding the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb. The County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb could not ask the Croatian Assembly, but had to address the investigating judge. That's what I and my colleague Letica and Vlado Jukic exhibited. So it's a process thing. We do not interfere with the scale and we ask that you also remove the pressure that is being put on the Croatian Parliament, the representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the speculations that appear to say whether we will vote today or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75345	Thank you. For the Club of the Croatian Democratic Assembly of Slavonia and Baranja, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75346	Thank you, Mr. President. For the Club of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja. Mr. President, last night when the session was closed, you announced the Law on the financing of local self-government units. You have not said a word or indicated that today in the Croatian Parliament it is usual to hold a vote on the items of the agenda discussed by this Croatian Parliament. Moreover, obviously this Croatian Parliament and you personally had a great need when the requests from the State Attorney's Office came in, from the investigating judge, and on the occasion of the Report of the Immunity Commission you had a need extremely hasty, and I think it is also your duty to forward these requests to the Mandate Immunity Commission. The mandate committee also had the need and obligation to call an emergency session, a phone session within an hour by phone, and they decided after the debate, made their decisions. The Croatian Parliament discussed the report of the mandate-immunity commission. The Croatian Democratic Community club made its proposal. You're the one who closed the debate. Mr. Glavas is in custody right now and beyond. I see not a single reason to postpone the vote not only on the report of the mandated immunity commission, but also on the other points of the agenda. But we're talking about a report from the Mandatory Immunity Commission. Which means delaying the vote that all the media are announcing that today is going to happen. My question is addressed to you as the President of the Croatian Parliament whether we will today, whether this House will hold a vote on the report of the mandated immunity commission and if it will not, for which reason a vote is delayed in a procedure that actually requires urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75347	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75348	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, on the trail of these steps my colleagues have come forward and I'm asking what's gonna happen at 3:00. Shall we vote? Shall we reopen the debate? What's Mr. Glavas' medical condition? Would it be good if Mr. Bajic would explain the situation to us? In my decision, no one will hesitate in my club's decision, but it would be good to hear Mr. Bajic's other side not to argue that the vote on immunity is only a real and legal issue. However, I would like to conclude that the Croatian public deserves to get an answer to the facts or to get facts, not to speculate, speculating what can happen today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75349	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In office of the President of the Croatian Parliament under the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, I am all the items relating to the mandates and in this particular case forwarded the Mandate to the Immunity Commission which made its decisions, proposals, conclusions. Second. For further consultations today, we will not vote on reports of the Mandate Immunity Commission. We're going to this second debate. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75350	HDSSB club. I asked you why today. You gave the answer there will be no vote. However, your explanation for the additional consultations absolutely cannot satisfy me as a representative of the Croatian Parliament. I believe that most colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. Who do you have to consult with? Who does this Croatian Parliament have to consult with? Is it with the State's Attorney General? Are you with the International Community? Who is it that is above the Croatian Parliament that this Croatian Parliament must consult with someone. And if you have to consult someone, I ask for an answer with whom you are conducting consultations on what is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. You are stalling the vote and delaying your decision in this House of Highs for something that you have at the very beginnings when the demands came you have shown that it is a decision that should be extremely hasty. Why do you really stop investigating things like this? Who is it that this Croatian Parliament must consult with? I ask you, Mr. President, to tell this Parliament or the Croatian public who this consultant is. The international community, the state's attorney, the state's attorney general, or someone else, maybe?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75351	The consultations are being held at the Croatian Democratic Community club. So within the Croatian Democratic Community's club, the consultation on determining the position to be determined according to certain parts of the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. That's why the vote is delayed. No more, I can no longer discuss it. Here we go again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75352	Mr. President, if I understand that you have seriously approached these demands at the Croatian Democratic Community club that you have done because you have had enough time to carry out all the consultations. And I appreciate you as a man who knows both the laws and regulations, so I understand that you have been consulted and that with your proposal in front of the Croatian Democratic Community club you have come to this House of the High, with very clear conclusions. Since it's obviously not the way I'm asking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75353	Okay. A colleague of Caine's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75354	I'm also joining the request for a break. Stancom and I are also looking for a 30-minute break. I think it's enough 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75355	A colleague of Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75356	Mr. President on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75357	A fellow baby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75358	... on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am also looking for a break for a session of the club on this issue. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75359	Okay. Here you go, gentlemen. Ten-minute stop for, upon request of these four clubs 10, as requested [[What, 10 or 30?]] You can ask, but 10, I give 10. [[We've been looking for 30.]] We're continuing the session. HSP representative club, respected representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75361	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party's right club believes that there is no reason to really not vote today and as soon as possible, because it is also extremely important every hour and every minute in making a parliamentary decision regarding removing immunity to Representative Glavas. We have to react very sharply to the unprecedented campaign against the Croatian Parliament for the last day, day and a half, where the thesis is reversed and the Croatian Parliament is being pressured from all sides and media and so on. I don't know what not. The Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, did not interfere in the measure... discuss rather than in the procedure concerning the removal of immunity which is in the domain and in the constitutional powers and obligations of the Croatian Parliament, which we also spoke of on the immunity committee in front of the Croatian party of rights through the person of the parliamentary representative. [[You don't understand.]] I would like to remind you that it was actually a matter of trying to correct the poor work of the immunity commission that allowed the deputy state attorney to give him a statement at the session itself and to insist on making the solutions they had made, rather than the solution submitted by the investigating judge. Therefore, it was a direct pressure on the Croatian Parliament and what we discussed yesterday, only to try to correct what was wrong with it. Therefore, pressure is being applied to the Croatian Parliament. Pressure is not done on the Croatian judiciary. The judiciary makes its own decisions, but the Croatian Parliament makes its own decisions. The Croatian Parliament could, without any debate, decide to approve of the removal of immunity or not to approve of the removal of immunity. It is a political decision, and indeed in Croatia, the party is rightly inadmissible in the situation under which the vote is being postponed, even in the towers we speak until Wednesday, etc. I would like to remind you that this House has an obligation to act under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia without interference in the work of the judicial authorities and we have not done so. The Croatian Parliament did not disable the investigation of representatives of Glavas but rather vice versa. He confirmed the possibility of an investigation in all cases requested by the State's Attorney's Office, but it needs to be terminated with the practice that the State's Attorney's Office may request detention. This should also be changed by the Rules of Procedure, which is at odds with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The only way a lawyer can be held in custody is for a court of law, and the Parliament may or may not have to approve it. It may or may not have to approve it, it is our sovereign decision because otherwise it is just happening that the State Attorney's Office will ride the Croatian Parliament and that it will then be decided by the lawyer of the state and will not be decided by the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. That's why Mr. President, in Croatia the party of rights does not really want to run this thing, but if you need to why not, by... will, here is the political body, the representative body of the Croatian people, we insist that today, as is the practice, as soon as possible the expensive quorum and vote on those decisions proposed by the HDZ club yesterday, which the Croatian party of rights supported. [[You don't understand.]] Otherwise, it would really be the twilight of parliamentaryism in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75362	For the club of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, we discussed in the Croatian Parliament about the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, this debate was closed and I was expecting, and I believe most of my colleagues to join the vote since it is a case that is not to be postponed. But the vote was delayed that day, and we expected the vote to be today as usual on Fridays, the last day of the week to vote on the points discussed. However, the vote has been postponed today. We heard the argument because of the additional consultations at the Croatian Democratic Community club which presented its proposal, which I concluded from the debate that the proposal with which all representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community stand and we put our proposal in line with that proposal in front of the HDSB did not even propose, in the procedure. I don't know what happened in the meantime, I don't know what kind of consultations are needed, but from the article of the campaign run in the media, which is perfectly visible how much pressure the judiciary is, what a huge pressure on the Croatian Parliament by the international community is, so we heard it in the central "Dnevnik" as the representative of the international community says. He's keeping an eye out! And what's next? The work of the highest home here in our country. What does he suggest? That the Croatian Parliament cannot make decisions on its own. That he doesn't have any sense in this Croatian Parliament, that he doesn't know what he's doing. There's a lot of pressure on the media. The media Mr. Glavas has already been convicted in advance. Well, everything's wanted for that man, absolutely everything by the State's Attorney's office and by an investigative judge. And what were they not looking for? They didn't demand to kill a man. That's the only thing they're not looking for. Not to talk about procedure. The procedure is known how it approached the decision-making process. Oh, don't get this Croatian Parliament into the measure of things, it's clear what's going on. So look what Ivan Zvonimir Čičak, an EPH associate, quotes: "If the court or the State Attorney's Office under the pressure of the Glavas by starving gave up the proceedings against him it would be much worse for Croatia in the long term, even since his death in custody", "The morning list", 4.11. Damir Grubiša, personal advisor to Budimir Lončar and I remind you of the dangerous opponent of Croatian Spring, "Our List" 17.11.2006, quote:... New leaf, excuse me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] "By allowing Glavas to get out of an investigative prison, the Parliament gave a shower to the European Union and to Croatian citizens and ultimately to himself.". I ask you, in the media, it's written in all the media that if the General Attorney General doesn't make the decision we discussed here will resign. So what does a state's chief attorney do? Is he above this Parliament? Is he suggesting to this House what needs to be made, what kind of decision? Well, that's what he was doing on the Mandatory Immunity Commission Deputy Attorney General. Insinuated, explained, searched, threatened. So who's he threatening? The Croatian Parliament? Can't the Croatian Parliament make decisions on its own? They need consultations, I don't believe they need consultations, but it's my right, it's your right to give an explanation. I do not believe that the Croatian Democratic Community Club did not think very well about this case, and it was very well assessed and very much put forward a proposal that was agreed upon by all in the Croatian Democratic Community Club, that proposal that you made. And now, to be subjected to pressures, media links, this kind of haranga about this subject and that the Croatian Parliament is actually withdrawing. That the Croatian Parliament is delaying the vote because of such pressures. I think it's unremembered because if, and I'm sure that's what this is about, I'm ashamed in front of the Croatian public of what I'm doing and what I'm sitting in these benches. Who rules the Republic of Croatia? The international community, perhaps the attorney general?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75364	Okay. Lock it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75365	I'm asking for a quick vote on this case in front of the HDSSB Club. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75366	Please. For the IDS Club, a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75367	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. I said a moment ago, IDS remains in their positions since 15.11. So the IDS is for the decision of the Mandatory Immunity Commission. I would have liked, as I said two days ago, that Mr. Glavas would have stopped following the hunger strike. No one in this House wants evil in this country. On the other hand, the hunger strike is Mr Branimir Glavas' choice, his political response to the process itself. The strike, as Mr Djapic said, is ready to go to the end, as others have done in many such cases. What did England do? She insisted on the decisions of her own court. It was politically damaging to her, but the institution's authority didn't endanger her. The rule of law must not be capitulated in front of anyone. The rule of law must not capitulate in front of anyone's political message. If that decision, which was presented to us on 15.11., read by the President of the Parliament, were to be implemented, I think that would be two steps backwards, but not as much for HDZ as for Croatia. And all the significant political moves of this government that made the impression that Croatia was changing, from cooperation with The Hague, moving the monuments of France, the street of Mile Budak, paying off the Zec family, co-operation with the European Union would in some way be questioned. The Croatian authorities would be measured according to Branimir Glavas. Understandably, responsibility is not on the opposition, responsibility is primarily on HDZ today. And this is saying that HDZ did not want the case, that it was probably imposed on him by the Hague court to test the credibility of the Croatian judiciary. Today, however, Croatia has no place to go. The Glavas case, gentlemen, is no longer political. It's primarily a judicial question. Politics must not take over the case from the judiciary because it will lead to the failure of the Croatian judiciary, and then to the defeat of Croatian politics. This will be the inauguration of the principle that in the defence war it was not possible to commit a crime although the presummation of innocence is a sacred constitutional principle that is likely to change neither by any constitutional law. No one doubts that on today, especially today that Croatia was a victim of aggression, that 13 thousand of our young people were killed in that war, that the Croatian country had over 30,000 people with disabilities, but the truth is that something else was happening on the margins of that war. There's no doubt that Osijek is also a hero. I know HDZ doesn't make a good move today. The opposition must be credible, the HDZ is responsible for Glavas and the opposition to the principle of justice. Hdz must not turn the judiciary into his branch, and at least the opposition should not allow it today. Imagine that HDZ is in opposition. For the end, the judiciary must not return to the 1990s because Croatia would also be returned 10 years ago, also in the 1990s. And that's why IDS will do as he announced. How will a different decision affect the Witnesses who are in custody? On the bodies of criminal repression, on the image of the country, on the credibility of the judiciary? I don't want to speculate with that, but I also want to say, this House must not be held hostage by anyone's insiders. That it's humanitarian, that it's legal, that it's a political issue a couple of exellence, judicially, but no one suspects it, and we join the demands that immunity vote, about removing immunity access as soon as possible. The truth is, what Mr. Šišljagic was saying, there is pressure, but gentlemen, no one threatens the Parliament. Pressure exists from the International Community, from part of the media and from the public, but the Parliament is autonomous and the decision is on us. Whatever it is we're going to respect it, and that's why I'm going to say one more time, whatever decision IDS is going to respect it. But that's why I say it one more time, that's what we should vote on today. Don't yell. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75368	By banging, the practice of banging and hitting, we put aside. Comrade Cain, the president of the Croatian Parliament did not take a step back or two steps as you chose to say towards Europe. The President of the Croatian Parliament held the position of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, and your assessment of this speaker that the trial is two steps back towards Europe, do not impute the President of the Croatian Parliament. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75369	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. He says Caine can't be back in the '90s. In the 1990s, we created Croatia. If it wasn't for the '90s, we wouldn't be in Croatia today, and you're bringing us back to the '80s because what you're proposing in '71. then it happened to the Croats, because then it interfered and the judiciary and all pressured everything else, and we're only looking for a procedural debate, it's a procedural debate that can't have detention at the same time. We're only talking about procedural things, and you're interfering in... Shame on you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75370	Let's hang in there. Pejo Trječević, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75371	Excuse me, Mr. President. So I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect allegations that his entire speech is actually incorrect and I'd call it one hate speech for Croatia and all that's happened since '90. To this day. In fact, Mr. Cain's speech actually politicizes the matter. We talk all the time about the legal issue, but he wants to politicise it by calling the great 90s actually not good for the Republic of Croatia for years. In fact, he says that no one threatens the Parliament, which is not true because the Parliament does not threaten anyone by making its decisions, and by pressing the Parliament of State Lawyers and all others, it's actually a pressure on the Parliament and I hold that it would be best to end all of this by voting, so let every MP say what he thinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75372	And the esteemed representative Vladimir Šišljagic, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Caine, you have indicated that the Croatian Parliament is not being held. The Croatian Parliament is threatened, so did you not read the newspaper, and did you not watch the news? So the main state's attorney threatens to resign unless this Croatian Parliament makes a decision as he believes decisions should be made. He suggests the Croatian Parliament, threatens with his resignation. Furthermore, Mr. Cain, you said it was probably the pressure of the Hague investigators suggesting it was Glavas. They were Hague investigators here and were investigating cases in the Glavas case in these cases in which investigative proceedings were opened. Be assured that Hague investigators would have long since filed charges that there was a single element that would point to a burden and evidence that Glavas committed a war crime, but the Hague investigators left here and the indictment was not filed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75374	For the HDZ's Club of Representatives, club president, Vice-President of the Parliament, respected representative Luka Bebic. Here you go. My allegations can't be corrected by my colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75375	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Constitutional right of the Parliament, where it is not automation, but it is an autonomous right to decide on the things given to it by the Constitution and by the laws. Whatever decision it makes, so whatever decision this House makes on what we're discussing, that decision is legitimate. The constitutional right of the judiciary is also to be independent and to judge by law and the Constitution, and if such constitutional positions are mutually respected by parliamentary, judicial and executive authorities, then there will be no disputes and we will not enter those gray zones where the legitimacy and the right of certain forms of government to act in accordance with the Constitution and the law can be questioned. Here a question has been raised from fellow Djapic whether in such cases when it comes to the removal of immunity, or approval for the detention of MPs, should this be the right of an investigative judge, i.e. the court or the State's Attorney's Office? According to our current Rules of Procedure and other acts governing it, it is the right of the State's attorney to ask for it, and as long as that right exists, we must act accordingly. My personal opinion is the same as my colleagues Djapic that it should be, but then we need to change these, so the regulation that determines it, but as the situation today is then and the state lawyer has the right to ask the Croatian Parliament as it has asked both partially and in this case. Otherwise, I agree there with those who claim that the Assembly should not discuss the particulars of the legal nature because the Assembly is not a court but that the Croatian Parliament should make a decision on the basis of the constitutional authority on the principles of the removal of immunity and the approval of the possible detention of MPs without entering detailed legal qualifications. This should be the position of the Croatian Parliament because the Croatian Parliament does not open the debate here, or evidence is submitted, but the Croatian Parliament, according to the report of its Mandate-Immunity Commission, needs to make a principle decision, and it consists of two parts of the removal of immunity and possible approval of the detention of MPs. Otherwise, the HDZ Club has unanimously concluded that even a shorter period of time is needed to consult on this subject and on every speculation and obvious indignation and a free desire to split up the HDZ and this unanimous decision itself are being denied, and that is not the only way to deny it, so I ask the representatives to be patient, everything will come in order, we try to make the wisest and best decision in the circumstances in which we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75376	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that he's trying to make the wisest decision. The wisest decision would be to vote on the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission because this is what the Commission proposes, and the Parliament confirms. Therefore, we see no reason not to vote on it. That would be the wisest thing to do within the time limit that is foreseen according to our customs as we have done so far. The wisest thing would be to vote on it and, by the way, the HSS has changed its attitude and will vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75378	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I've been listening to the views of these clubs. I accept the position of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club on a delay in voting with the reasons set out in a statement by the president of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives so that we will not vote today. We're moving on to the next point. I see there are some club proposals. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I did not expect such a proposal, of course, but rather a vote on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission or on the proposal proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community on the 15th and last week respectively. I don't know what kind of delay in voting given the alarming situation, the fact that Mr. Glavas is in jail, that hunger strike. You postponed the vote and Wednesday although the debate was closed, so you postponed the vote on Friday, so here you are now postponing the vote again. So you're going through the media and you're going through a lot of different conclusions from your party. We have a vague situation. I think the vote should be held urgently, there is no reason why it should not be held now and that the Croatian public knows exactly what this Croatian Parliament wants to say. I don't think there's any point in further delaying the vote, that all the facts are clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75381	Thank you. For the club HSP, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75382	Dear Mr. President, the Croatian party's real club is also asking to hold a vote, but we are also asking that we be clearly told here today whether this proposal for a HDZ Club decision is still current or whether you withdrew it as the media passed on last night. If you pulled him out, then you manipulated us, and then we ask that all MPs who want to make an insight into the subject to carry out the debate on the basis of new facts because this way we are all manipulated and Mr. Glavas is sentenced to death. We cannot start with a debate on the state budget, no one can be above the Croatian Parliament except God, no one can press the Croatian Parliament outside and create a completely different atmosphere for the Croatian Parliament to press the judiciary. Everyone puts pressure on the Croatian Parliament and therefore we pray for explanations and this kind of work because this is a question that we cannot go through that easily. It's a ruby, and we have to stop there and be determined to say what and how we think and how we're going to get out, we're going to let Glavas die in prison? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75383	HDZ representative club respected Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75384	It is true that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community has decided to support the conclusions made by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75385	Ladies and gentlemen! All those suggestions. Do we have any more suggestions on behalf of the representatives' clubs? IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75386	Your Honor, Mr. President, we don't mind if we approach the vote on the Glavas case this morning. Clearly, IDS remains in the position he's been in all these days. Seven days ago, you gentlemen called me a traitor, Father of Yugoslavia, even though man would ask himself who today is a traitor. I say, no one in this House is a traitor, nor am I, nor are those who have no stand. A traitor would be the one to play with the fate of this country. So if the committees, if I get them right, are looking for a break, and we're not looking for a break and we're also demanding to approach the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75387	The HSS Club is a respected representative of Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75388	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We join the demands to approach the vote immediately. However, I would like to warn you of the fact that three days ago we made a request to the Mandate-Immunity Commission to hold a closed session of this committee, where all the MPs would be present and so that they could learn about the material facts that led the commission to make the decision that it made. I note, at the HSS Club, we didn't get any evidence of that. Moreover, we don't even have the minutes of this Mandate-Immunity Commission, we only have the result of their vote, so I don't think we can decide just on the basis of the vote. I suggest that before we decide to hold a closed session of the commission and that everything that has been said on this committee be presented to us so that we can decide on our conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75389	Ladies and gentlemen, all these proposals and initiatives related to the decisions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission reports will be voted and discussed at 3:00. ... You asked for some breaks. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] HSP representative club, respected representative Ante Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75390	Mr. President, there are two facts to be pointed out. The HDZ club stressed that it has de facto withdrawn its proposal for a decision since last week and that it fully supports the Commission's decision. These are completely new circumstances. And the second fact that you refuse to vote as a pre-point right now is to put it that way. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I am looking for a break of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75391	Thank you. For the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75392	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we have heard now that the Croatian Democratic Community Club has given up its proposal. You submitted this proposal at the session on 15 November. As a club, we agreed. He also agreed to the HSP Club. That is why we did not make our proposal because we felt that here in the Croatian Parliament, in this place we were talking to serious people who had studied the subject well, with people who kept to their word or to their position. However, the HDZ Club has changed again, changed its position again. These are completely new circumstances and certainly for this reason the HDSB Club is also looking for a 30-minute break so that it can take a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75393	The HSS Club, the IDS Club, respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75394	We also join the request for a short break, 10 minutes, 15 minutes. Not anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75395	The HSS Club is a respected representative of Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75396	Thank you very much. We're joining a request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75397	SDP representative club respected representative Ivica Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75398	Mr. President, we don't see any reason not to approach the vote right away. If he doesn't join us, we'll join the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75399	HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75400	Mr President-in-Office, given that the debate in the Parliament on this point has been concluded, the views of the clubs of all MPs are presented, the Commission's proposal given on time in writing, I believe that there are all the conditions for the Parliament to cast a vote immediately, and I join the request for a break so that further progress of things can be made manifest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75401	Is there more? Club representatives of HSLS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. [[Intruder: HSLS.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75402	Request, we join the request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75403	Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75404	From, from the same...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75405	Which ones? You need to give an explanation. You should give an explanation to your colleague Kramarić. You need to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75406	For new circumstances, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75407	New Circumstances. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75408	Since we have heard here opinions and suggestions from almost all clubs in the Croatian Parliament to carry out additional consultations or reviews of the current situation related to this item on the agenda of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, then HDZ also requests a 15-minute break for its consultations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75409	Have all the clubs now highlighted their demands? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 clubs. It's a 15-minute stop. We're moving on with the session. HSP representative club, respected representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75411	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We asked for a break on behalf of the club to convince the Croatian public once again or at least try to convince her that the most common deception that tries to deceive the Croatian public is that the parliament interferes in the affairs of the judiciary, that HDZ has remained in the decision of the other day. We in Croatia do not really see any reason to keep Mr. Glavas in custody while the investigation is ongoing. What we think should also provide Branimir Glavas is at least the minimum that The Hague allows UN suspects, later indictees. I would like to remind you that while The Hague is investigating no one is in the custody of the Hague tribunal, no one, but only when the indictments are filed then go to Hague custody, and possibly if there is no fear of escape and there is a guarantee of the state for the Hague indictees is a high probability and the possibility that they too await the start of the trial from freedom. According to this request to retain Mr. Glavas' immunity regarding the severity of the crime, we do not interfere with the judiciary. Until the indictment is filed, there is no reason for detention, or we should be required by the State's Attorney's office that there are elements for him to be in custody, and we, as counterpart Pecek said, do not have the materials of the Mandate Commission, the minutes from that session, and this is about our fellow MP. Thus, by example, if HDZ really gives up on that decision, which seems very likely to introduce a remarkable transplant into the Croatian Parliament, a very dangerous precedent. We're asking the State's Attorney's Office to assure us that Mr. Glavas must remain in custody until the charges are filed. I will not make legal arguments but only clear travel arguments in which this House can make any decision it wishes. And it also accounts for the Croatian people only, does not account for the international community, does not account for the European Commission, but accounts for the Croatian people. And if we don't protect Mr. Glavas today from him being on the loose while the investigation is going on, then I want to warn you, I'm sorry that there is no president of the Croatian Democratic Community here, that a precedent is being introduced tomorrow which may mean very clearly that any parliamentary representative when he asks the State's Attorney for his persecution and detention will not be of these same representatives, perhaps some others, will not be able to be protected. And when we talk about European practice, Mr. President, then you well know that our Prime Ministers are a good friend with Mr. Berlusconi against whom there have been 10 criminal charges, indictments, not one day spent in custody. Who protected him? It was protected by the Italian Parliament. So we hold that if we have decided to change the position of the Croatian Democratic Community we are looking for a new debate, because then we were led astray because we are not then our proposal for a decision that was agreed, which was practically identical. And a new debate needs to be opened, and there should be a session of the Immunity Commission with all of us, so let the state's attorney come to us because he was also coming to the Committee immunity that he shouldn't have. Because he has nothing to come to the Committee and to convince the MPs that this decision is not right, but that decision. If it is not the involvement of the judicial authorities in legislative authority such as the Croatian Parliament, then I do not know what it is. Therefore, the minimum we deserve as parliamentary representatives is to convince us that Glavas must be in custody, and this someone is a state lawyer who needs to come to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, that is, the Mandating Commission and subscribe all documents to us so that we can see if that is indeed the case. Everything else is purely politicizing the protest against Branimir Glavas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75412	Thank you. HDSSB club, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75413	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here last night we were able to see for ourselves a new Copernicus plant that was mentioned at a meeting of November 15th. So, again, the Salto Mortals of the Croatian Democratic Community. Today, however, he is much more serious today because it is a salto mortale made here in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community makes up the parliamentary majority. The Croatian Democratic Community, from the decisions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the last decisions on 26 October to exactly 15 November, had 19 days to take a good look at the Mandate-Immunity Commission, to fully enter the case, to make too many proposals and bring here before the Croatian Parliament. If I exaggerated last night perhaps in some of my statements I apologize to representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union. But in that part of 19 days, it was not enough for people who were representatives of the Croatian Parliament to make an excessive decision, a decision based on the law and regulations that I cannot understand. Mr. President, you've been in this Croatian Parliament since the beginning of the Croatian state. You'd be the first man of the Croatian Parliament. You were the one who explained your proposal not only here in the Croatian Parliament but in front of the Croatian public seven days ago. I believe that you as a good lawyer, as an honorary doctor of science of the University of Osijek, as a longtime representative, as someone who is responsible would never come before this distinguished House with some kind of nebuloses, with something not based on the law and on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to say another irrefutable fact. Mr. President, you know that Mr. Glavas is not guilty in this case before the Zagreb County Court, because at that time, you were with him in Osijek. You know that well. On your proposal, the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community, our proposal of the HDSB also did the HSP, withdraw, because we believed that we agreed to a position with serious people who do not change every few hours or every few days their opinions and attitude. But you changed it. You haven't given any explanation. You're having an argument with someone else entirely over the course of time. Given that you have deceived not only the representatives but also the Croatian public, the HDSSB Club is seeking a new session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission with all MPs, so that representatives can be convinced and enter the case because the Mandate-Immunity Commission has entered the case as to whether it was a point 2 or 4 on the severity of the crime. The Croatian Parliament does not interfere with the judiciary, the judiciary interferes in the work of the Croatian Parliament, puts pressure on the Croatian Parliament, the state lawyer assures the representatives of the Mandate-Immunity Commission without hearing the other side. He hides the documents, there are no documents in the files that speak and clearly indicate that Mr. Glavas is not guilty of this case. So we are looking for a new session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, to be held in front of the MPs, but all MPs, of course, who want it, are sifting all the evidence from this case, and afterwards we are looking for a new debate here in the Croatian Parliament, a new debate, given that the debate of 15 November has been completely deplaced, because the Croatian Democratic Community club has deceived both this Croatian Parliament and the HDSSB and the HSP and the other MPs, because obviously as we have heard today, the Croatian Democratic Community club is withdrawing its proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75414	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75415	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. We all agree that the Glavas case must be a judicial matter, not a political issue. It is true that Mr. Glavas created politics, though, Glavas was one of the few who determined political flows, so it is no wonder that politics is following him at the rate. I think HDZ's decision from today, if that's how I can define it, is the only right decision. However, I would also like to say this: The Glavas case could be controlled by 15.11., this case could be interpreted as a dominant judicial issue by then, but since 15.11. and that of your HDZ decision to amend the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, de facto this case turns into a dominant political case. Why? There is no doubt that people from the HDZ summit have written a decision to the Mandate-Immunity Commission in determining detention. God’s Word, 2 / 15 The HDZ decided to change those conclusions, most of them clearly can. Why would she accept the board's position? But everyone, both in the domestic and international public, began to ask, with an emphasis on their home affairs, whether it is in the independence of the judiciary, because the investigative judge has ordered Glavas to be detained. The question is also how the HDZ decision would affect witnesses to pass, who are currently in custody and who have confirmed the misdemeanour. The question is, would the Parliament, i.e. The authorities came to meet every Croatian citizen who decided to strike hunger. If any hunger strike can force the Parliament to change the court, then this body is a body with no authority and no authority. It's true what was last said. That some war crimes indictees are defending themselves from freedom. Their nationality is irrelevant, crime is a crime. A certain Milan Saric was not in custody, nor was Dentic Vlasimir, Lazar Vidic, Zoran Kecman, because their detention was suspended until they were arrested. Some Pauklovic, Urakolo, Berberovic in custody spent a year and a month, Petar Mamula two years and seven months etc. etc. No one can also say that Glavas is guilty before a final verdict, that's what the court will say. No one wants to hurt anyone here either. I'd like you all not to go on a hunger strike. Inoslav Beskir wrote a great column entitled "You're heading a conscious risk of never being proven guilty or innocent." I'm not going to read the other details of this column. I said IDS will stay at the council's position, but also responsibility is no longer ours. The responsibility is here at HDZ and in my court I think that what was done seven days ago, that there was one gambling act, but no one can sit on two chairs as well as no one should play with the credibility of the state. The judiciary has said that there is a suspicion of war crime and what we must do now, whether we confirm the court's position or do not know what decision, i.e. to change the court's position, i.e. Take some imaginary decision. In the end, this coup that has taken place in the last seven days may not be bad because it is evidence of the independence of our judiciary. I'm aware of the fact that HDZ doesn't have a good move. Why? Because the domestic and international public after what might have happened or what might have happened to the government would have solely judged by the Glavas case, not by some good things such as paying out the Zac family, I don't know the Gotovina case, co-operation with The Hague, moving the Franciscan monuments, etc. which has been done over the past year or two days. And I'm going to say one more sentence, because I didn't know how many calls, mostly my parents. Gentlemen, call me whatever you want, don't touch my family because they're not the least responsible for my attitudes. Once again, I will say no one in this House is a traitor. Neither do you. The traitors aren't the ones who don't think for themselves, that we've kept gambling with our children, I think they'd all become traitors. And once again, gentlemen, insult me as much as you want, but leave my family alone because after that they have trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75416	Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75417	Mr. Caine, several incorrect allegations, but I beg you don't speak for this House speaker about what you don't know, what you're not referred to, don't assume. So you said here that the witnesses confirmed the misdemeanor. What witnesses? The work that has been launched claims that Kronoslav Fehir, who is still walking in Zagreb today, is being done. He is accused in this case, a suspected, well-founded suspect who has confessed to murder is walking around Zagreb, and our fellow parliamentary representative, we are making a decision here to be left in custody and incarcerated because of the same as you say. You know how long you've been in jail? Permanently. To the power of judgment, probably because this is not about one trial. This is about a politically motivated and mounted political process. That's obvious now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75418	Thank you. Second correction, honourable representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75419	counterpart Cain says if every hunger strike in this country ends with the release of his colleague Glavas, the Croatian Parliament does not decide on the detention of every citizen of this country. The Croatian Parliament decides on a permit for the detention of representatives of the Croatian Parliament at a time when no indictment has been filed against him. Next, you tell Glavas knowingly risks not being proven innocent. In which state is it proven innocent, Mr. Cain? In history, a case was remembered when man had to prove his innocence and we have remembered that case for more than 2,000 years. The man who tried him said I don't want to interfere with the judiciary. I don't see the guilt on this man, but I wash my hands, you do what you want with him. I think you know what kind of man it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75420	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75421	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Cain has really spoken a lot of lies and lies. I'll make it right. He says the court has made a decision. The court didn't make any decisions. What court did he make? This is an open investigation procedure for two cases, and the court has made no decision. So, the coroner determines whether there are any elements to press charges someday. So the Head is innocent, first of all. Secondly, you said wrongly, the Mandatory Immunity Commission brought the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian public into this position. We know those of us who were there because they were looking for a break for an hour, then they declared the request of an investigative judge of Posavec that he was anti-constitutional. That he's anti-constitutional so that we can nail this to Glavas and to all of us here. Therefore, do not say what you do not know, make an insight into the subject, and you will see what has happened and how it has happened. I'm asking here Sesvetana, who was pressuring...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75422	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75423	I'm asking who put pressure on you?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75424	Correction of an incorrect quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75425	... Tell Cain not to say what he said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75426	Ivan Drmić, a respected representative, corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75427	Mr. Cain, in your presentation, you made very little or no truth, but a lot of lies. Your exposure could only show your wish as a politician and as a man that Branimir was not in custody 3 weeks or 4 as long as he was in custody, ended up in custody as early as May, as you said. I am also surprised by your claim that the judiciary, or the Parliament, is involved in the work of the judiciary. Please, Immunity is a constitutional category. It clearly states in the Constitution what rights advocates are in relation to immunity. It clearly states that the Parliament has the authority, the constitutional authority to decide independently and autonomously on the immunity of each representative. And please, who is pressuring the Croatian Parliament, who is it that interferes with the work of the Parliament and wants to say that the Parliament affects the work of the judiciary with its constitutional areas?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75428	For the club of representatives of the HSS, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75429	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club asked for a break due to a statement on the need to vote on the proposal of the Mandate Immunity Commission immediately because it is obvious that we are going back to the starting points because this confirms the position of the HSS that in the case of the Head of Law, Justice, and obviously the policy is not best balanced. In this regard, we are particularly referring to this double axl of HDZ back a few days which has been carried out even against the Law of Physics and not just logic and rights. The starting point means that members of the Parliament's Mandatory Immunity Commission will vote as well as at their session and will not have to change their position because of the HDZ Club proposal, which seems to have been current for just a few hours. The HSS Club also returns to the starting points which were presented in the debate when the President of the Executive Immunity Commission introduced us to the presidency's decision. That's not how we're going to be involved. We don't want to vote against our conscience because we don't really know what we're voting on. The commission made a decision and introduced us only to how it voted, and we parliamentary representatives did not get an insight into neither the record from the committee, let alone the material facts on which the decision was made. Imagine the situation for us to do so in voting when we decide on other acts in the Assembly. Today, we will discuss the state budget and vote on it within a few days. If the same rules apply to the adoption of the budget as for the Glavas case, enough would be the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget which could be written by 5 votes for, 3 abstentions, e.g. 1 against the proposal to adopt the 2007 budget. And on that basis, we could vote for or against the budget without being presented to us with anything else, i.e. income positions, expenditures, a list of capital projects and others. We think that this and all similar situations are such absurd, and that is why three days ago we asked the Mandate Immunity Commission to hold a closed session about making a decision on the immunity of Representative Glavas, where all MPs could attend and where they would be familiar with everything that affected the motion to remove immunity. The only reason for holding a session of such a closed type is the inability to learn otherwise about the state of material facts that cannot be presented in public. We HSS would not want to decide only on the basis of the vote of the Commission, information from the media or some new facts alleged to have been known to only some clubs in this House or some individuals. In this regard, we do not wish to determine in advance whether or not we will vote to remove immunity from the representative, Glavas. We said it would be good if legal arguments and facts allowed counsel Glavas to defend himself from freedom. However, we would like to make sure that there are also arguments that this is impossible. They would not want it to be linked to possible international applications of this case, especially the policy intention to interfere with the work of the judicial institutions for which we, in the HSS, think they must be independent. Whether or not politics is here more than deeply involved. First of all, I think of the lack of reason that, because of the sensitivity and importance of the case, Glavas is not voting, but in the first day after the meeting of the Parliament began. We didn't vote at the end of the week, and that's hard to defend. My colleagues and colleagues, it's hard to defend. I am not talking about the outcome of the vote this time but only about the fact that we should have done it before not only because of the obligation but also because of my conviction as the highest legislative body in the Republic of Croatia. That is why, Mr. President, I am asking you and all the political options in the Assembly to accept the HSS proposal asking for a session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to be held without the public presence and before the vote. We have a foothold for this in Article 255. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and we also need experience because such an extended session was held by the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy during 2003 during the former government debated the situation in the armed forces of Croatia. Not only in the case of Glavas, but in every vote in the Assembly, we must be sure that we decide in good faith and based on all the facts available. We must be sure that we support the best solution, to represent the interests of citizens who have given us confidence in the elections. This time I'm not too sure I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75430	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75431	Mr. Pacek, you're wrong when you claim that by not meeting the MPs with the materials on the Branimir Glavas process, Parliament procedures are injured. The fact is that it is not an accident that the State's Attorney's Office is hiding this object as a snake's feet, that they have sought the secrecy of the file because they do not want their fellow MPs, that the Croatian public sees what is in this file, which is done in this process because all those packages, all those political installations, would appear to be hollow and Branimir Glavasu's packing. That's the only goal of why we can't be undercover by some secret procedure to learn about those facts in those files. That file is hollow, there's no evidence, there's no witnesses, and what you read in the media is not what it says in the files.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75432	The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75433	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The decisions of the Mandate Commission pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly were delivered in time clear and reasoned. The assembly led them, spent and completed the debate, and all the club representatives made it clear in this debate as they did today. At this moment, we have a quorum and it is up to us to confirm it or not to confirm it and that is all we are voting on and on and on whether or not we will confirm or not the decisions of the Mandate Commission. All the conditions for us are met for the Parliament to finally make a decision and leave things to the judiciary. No one pressured the Croatian People's Party club, no one called us or wrote letters or public or secret. Our views, our views were not influenced by the views of other club representatives or the Croatian Democratic Community club. The Croatian People's Party Club has not changed its decision and we are ready to vote immediately to confirm the decisions of the Mandate Commission of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75434	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative of Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75435	Mr. President, the SDP club was and remains behind the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. At the same time, I must say on behalf of the club by our assessment and not only our assessment, unfortunately, we can conclude that there have been too many policies, political manipulations, inconsistencies that have raised questions about what is happening in Croatia. I think it has damaged this Croatian Parliament and damaged Croatia and its authorities. The latest HDZ proposal is explained as respect for the rule of law. We can really agree with that, but that would mean that some previous behaviors and attitudes were not. When I said there was too much pressure and manipulation then I thought of pressure and manipulation to deviate from the principle of the rule of law, but unfortunately it's bad for Croatia, it's bad for us all together if the pressures are needed and that these principles of the rule of law are respected. It will be a big question whether we are able, apart from Mr. Glavas' personal fate, to which I do not underestimate, to draw greater lessons from what Croatia needs to do further. For the manner and reason I said the SDP was and remains for the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75436	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75437	Dear Mr. President, I must correct the inaccuracies of the distinguished colleague Racan is that the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission is against the constitution because of the fact that the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which was Mr. Arlović, could have passed this on to the request of the County State Attorney's Attorney-General in Zagreb for detention as a result of the severity of the criminal offence, and we know ourselves that the County State Attorney's Office could not have addressed only one of the parties to the procedure, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, but had to address the judge for being the State's attorney for granting his decision, or the County State's decision, it is only the ideological unity of you and the HDZ. Thank you. In this regard, we do not wish to determine in advance whether or not we will vote to remove immunity from the representative, Glavas. We said it would be good if legal arguments and facts allowed counsel Glavas to defend himself from freedom. However, we would like to make sure that there are also arguments that this is impossible. They would not want it to be linked to possible international applications of this case, especially the policy intention to interfere with the work of the judicial institutions for which we, in the HSS, think they must be independent. Whether or not politics is here more than deeply involved. First of all, I think of the lack of reason that, because of the sensitivity and importance of the case, Glavas is not voting, but in the first day after the meeting of the Parliament began. We didn't vote at the end of the week, and that's hard to defend. My colleagues and colleagues, it's hard to defend. I am not talking about the outcome of the vote this time but only about the fact that we should have done it before not only because of the obligation but also because of my conviction as the highest legislative body in the Republic of Croatia. That is why, Mr. President, I am asking you and all the political options in the Assembly to accept the HSS proposal asking for a session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to be held without the public presence and before the vote. We have a foothold for this in Article 255. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and we also need experience because such an extended session was held by the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy during 2003 during the former government debated the situation in the armed forces of Croatia. Not only in the case of Glavas, but in every vote in the Assembly, we must be sure that we decide in good faith and based on all the facts available. We must be sure that we support the best solution, to represent the interests of citizens who have given us confidence in the elections. This time I'm not too sure I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75438	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75439	Mr. Pacek, you're wrong when you claim that by not meeting the MPs with the materials on the Branimir Glavas process, Parliament procedures are injured. The fact is that it is not an accident that the State's Attorney's Office is hiding this object as a snake's feet, that they have sought the secrecy of the file because they do not want their fellow MPs, that the Croatian public sees what is in this file, which is done in this process because all those packages, all those political installations, would appear to be hollow and Branimir Glavasu's packing. That's the only goal of why we can't be undercover by some secret procedure to learn about those facts in those files. That file is hollow, there's no evidence, there's no witnesses, and what you read in the media is not what it says in the files.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75440	The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75441	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The decisions of the Mandate Commission pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly were delivered in time clear and reasoned. The assembly led them, spent and completed the debate, and all the club representatives made it clear in this debate as they did today. At this moment, we have a quorum and it is up to us to confirm it or not to confirm it and that is all we are voting on and on and on whether or not we will confirm or not the decisions of the Mandate Commission. All the conditions for us are met for the Parliament to finally make a decision and leave things to the judiciary. No one pressured the Croatian People's Party club, no one called us or wrote letters or public or secret. Our views, our views were not influenced by the views of other club representatives or the Croatian Democratic Community club. The Croatian People's Party Club has not changed its decision and we are ready to vote immediately to confirm the decisions of the Mandate Commission of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75442	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative of Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75443	Mr. President, the SDP club was and remains behind the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. At the same time, I must say on behalf of the club by our assessment and not only our assessment, unfortunately, we can conclude that there have been too many policies, political manipulations, inconsistencies that have raised questions about what is happening in Croatia. I think it has damaged this Croatian Parliament and damaged Croatia and its authorities. The latest HDZ proposal is explained as respect for the rule of law. We can really agree with that, but that would mean that some previous behaviors and attitudes were not. When I said there was too much pressure and manipulation then I thought of pressure and manipulation to deviate from the principle of the rule of law, but unfortunately it's bad for Croatia, it's bad for us all together if the pressures are needed and that these principles of the rule of law are respected. It will be a big question whether we are able, apart from Mr. Glavas' personal fate, to which I do not underestimate, to draw greater lessons from what Croatia needs to do further. For the manner and reason I said the SDP was and remains for the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75444	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75445	Dear Mr. President, I must correct the inaccuracies of the distinguished colleague Racan is that the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission is against the constitution because of the fact that the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which was Mr. Arlović, could have passed this on to the request of the County State Attorney's Attorney-General in Zagreb for detention as a result of the severity of the criminal offence, and we know ourselves that the County State Attorney's Office could not have addressed only one of the parties to the procedure, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, but had to address the judge for being the State's attorney for granting his decision, or the County State's decision, it is only the ideological unity of you and the HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75446	Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75447	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! In his replica, Col. Rosic remembered Pontius Pilate but Pontius Pilate did not wash his hands because of the jurisprudence but the moment he asked Jesus what he was, Jesus replied that it was true and then Pontius Pilate washes his hands, because he is not sure that anyone can know what the truth is. It's... You need to re-read some texts from your colleague Kovacevic, and then you will see exactly, rather than have some short editions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You see, all of this that's been happening these last few days has gone beyond any measure of good taste. They're going down extremely hard on the first people of this country, so it means to us, it's about a crazy ship, about a schizoid double personality, and it turns out that we're actually having this assembly, too, unfortunately, turned into a political courtroom. And then it's really hard to reach the truth, and it's really best to act like Pontius Pilate to wash his hands of it. When I discussed on behalf of the HSLS club last week, I appealed that when we speak and when we speak to the Croatian public, we must be aware and that words can be killed. And that we must be very careful, careful to protect our institutions. Because if we don't guard the institutions, then we can't really ask anyone else to protect us and have a relationship with us to respect us as the most legislative body of this country. Unfortunately, because of our moral indolence or some other interests, we act that way. We either judge too quickly or we release too quickly. And we said it was actually the face and face of the same totalitarian coin. We fail to say that we create this Jaspers of ours so we can really talk about the problem of guilt in the way the Germans have done it in '45. years when they faced some facts. It doesn't seem very important to us. Because it's just too hard and it really requires it, and it's just a test of actually being ready to really face what's been going on these past 15 years in this country. We've systematically avoided it and then systematically it's always coming back to us, even this way. And when you say that I want to and in the last time I also said that things shouldn't be seen individually, particularly, but that they have to have universal significance and that they're actually going from that so important presumption of innocence, and in this case, then it's actually avoided, and then we're really going down to the field of everyday politics and we're acting cheerleaders, being the bottom floors of our consciousness, and then we have what we have. That's why the HSLS club will remain consistent with that which is that justice must be done even if the world fails. And indeed, if we really are going to suspend the rule of law or the rule of law then we are just showing this unwillingness to trust the institutions of this country and again we are actually going to throw each other very hard words that won't change the picture, our image and the transitions at all will be so damn slow, and that's how much we'll always damn go back to the very beginning. So we like to say that we don't want to get into the measure of things, but here we're actually forced to actually commit ourselves. It's still not a place where we can commit. And I say as a liberal and as a citizen, so here, if I may say and as a humanist, I am really starting from the presummation of the innocence of every man and so on and so on, but that we of the Parliament are not making a political courtroom and that really here on the legal issue is actually politics through the door and window or at a small door or in a different dramatic way coming in here and that this really becomes a question that will leave one bad mark on the work of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, we've already done that. The question is how, when and how can we even correct our mistake? Well, just because I don't know what's true, I'm gonna wash my hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75448	Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75449	Your Honor! Mr. Kramaric says we must guard the institutions. And who will guard this institution of MPs, Mr. Kramaric? Who's guarding the Croatian Parliament if it isn't us? Who's gonna keep it? To say I'm correct when you say we don't do a courtroom here. We really don't do a courtroom here, that's what you're saying. But I repeat once again, Mr Branimir Glavas has not been charged. Nothing comes to court without a charge. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75450	Thank you. Second correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75451	Your Honor, Mr. President! It is offensive to listen to a colleague, Kramaric, who compared the catharsis of the Germans, the German state in '45. with the Homeland War. It's also an insult and it's against the Homeland War Declaration and I believe he said it in ignorance because then I'm really deeply concerned about his mental state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75452	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75453	Mr Kramaric argues that a report of the Mandate Commission should be accepted, leaving Branimir in custody where the hunger strike will be to the death and that justice will be served in this way. I'm sorry I didn't think so until four weeks ago. So justice is greater in The Hague, for if Branimir had been charged in The Hague, he would have been in Osijek today, and he would have been allowed to defend himself from freedom. Unfortunately, our judiciary is under the influence of Eve Sanader. That doesn't allow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75454	Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75455	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting Mr. Kramaric's incorrect claim that he called Mr. Rozic to mention Pontius Pilate in his presentation. That's not true. But I'm impressed by your insight into how you're doing about Pontius Pilate. You just haven't discovered two things Mr. Kramaric is who he is today in this case, Pontius Pilate and you're aware that the big differences between Pontius Pilate two thousand and a few years ago and today's which are much more cunning and the circumstances are different.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75456	The club of HDZ representatives is the club's president, respected deputy vice president Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75457	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! Every word spoken in this assembly is politics regardless of what is as a point of the agenda, so this is also obvious. This is the first case that the Parliament decides on the detention of one of its members, one of its representatives. We'd be better off if we didn't get that chance by now. But things are the way they are and we can't get out of it. Legally, it is the right of the Croatian Parliament, which is what I last said on behalf of the club, to make any decision in this case. No one can dispute the Croatian Parliament's decision, regardless of how he thinks the legal situation of a particular or specific case stands. So, however Parliament decides, it is legitimate and based on the Constitution. All this time when this item is on the agenda in the Croatian Parliament and much of the population of the Croatian public we heard and listened to the basic remark Parliament should not enter into the metrics because Parliament is not a courtroom. This is a message from many and scientists in the area of law and employees of judges or former judges, including constitutional judges. However, as things stand, we see in the newspapers on TV "HDZ leaves Glavas in custody.". HDZ leaves Glavas in custody, leaves no court. The court, the investigating judge made a decision in one case on detention and this was confirmed after the procedure by the Court of Justice's extrajudicial council in Zagreb and on this basis, rather than whether or not the Parliament accepted our colleague Branimir Glavas in the Investigation Prison, detention on this basis. And that's a fact. For me, the principle applies not only to the declarative but also to the fact that everyone is innocent until proven guilty by a judicial power verdict is proven otherwise, even in this case. I'm sorry about what's going on, I'm sorry. If I could help myself, I would, but we have to stay at the level of who we are, which is that the parliamentary government cannot interfere in the affairs of the judiciary, as the executive authority does not need to interfere in the affairs of the judiciary. And in a procedural sense, there is an article 25. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which reads "In the light of the request for the authorisation of the detention of representatives or for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs, the Parliament shall decide on the basis of the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission whether to grant an authorisation for detention or authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings. That's Article 25 of our Rules of Procedure. The HDZ proposal of 15.11. did not question paragraph 2 which was used by the investigating judge and confirmed by the extrajudicial council, and on that basis, Mr Glavas is in custody by at least 26 this month. So, by 26 and after this earlier decision, Mr Branimir Glavas, Mr Branimir Glavas, is in custody, however this House decides or does not decide. Most clubs ask to vote immediately. The HDZ Club has no objection to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75458	Corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75459	Your Honor, Mr. President! He says the vice president can't help himself. It can be very personal to help and not accept the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, where it has given its anti-constitutional consent at the request of the County State Attorney's Office for Determining Detention because they could not ask the Parliament to do so. So you can help. Therefore, you can't, either, it's an incorrect and incorrect claim. He doesn't leave the Council of Glavas in custody. It leaves the Council of Glavas in custody and HDZ, which has changed the position that has been legally founded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75460	Second correction by the respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75461	Thank you very much. Mr. Bebić, I will correct two incorrect allegations very briefly. Mr. Bebic said "The court has reached a verdict on detention.". The judge is not a court, Mr. Baby. The investigating judge is an investigative judge and is known as an institution only in Croatia and some other close countries. In Europe and worldwide, the investigating judge does not exist at all as an institution between the state's attorney and the court. Secondly, you said at the beginning of the exhibition "For the first time, the Croatian Parliament is making a decision on detention.". And that's not true. The Croatian Parliament, unfortunately, was in custody about many representatives of the Croatian Parliament, not in recent history, but one of which was held by the Croatian Parliament was also the father of the homeland of Dr Ante Starcevic and on two occasions. He was detained after the decision of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75462	And the third correction by the respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75463	Thank you very much. Mr. Bebic, the extrajudicial council has not confirmed the judge's decision. The investigating judge has reached a verdict on the detention and the extrajudicial council has rejected the appeal. And I would like to warn you of the fact that the decisions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and that is an irrefutable fact, are such that they have just entered into the scale of things. Because the decisions themselves show that there was a debate on criminal law, on point 2, on point 4, and you will argue that this Croatian Parliament must not enter and cannot enter into the measure of things to accept or not to accept or to put to the vote exactly that decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission which is based on the debate on the measure of things. Despite the fact that all those who have raised their hands on this committee, and who have the upper hand, the HDZ representatives have neither understood nor understood nor understood the subject and case they voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75464	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please? It is still a correction to the incorrect quote, Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75465	Mr. Bebić, you claim that the non-judgment or refusal of a request for the detention of Branimir Glavas is a direct interference of the Croatian Parliament in the work of the judiciary. You are quoting Article 25. Both by the Constitution and by the law and by this Article 25. You have one key word: The Parliament decides. If the Constitutional right of the Parliament to make a decision, then perhaps the MPs themselves can decide whether to raise a hand in or against? That they don't need a supplication from the state's attorney, from the prime minister, from the Croatian government or anyone else. If that's the case and you're interpreting it, then we're going to change the Constitution and end parliamentary immunity at all because it's groundless if we're going to accept every request there and shut down the MPs. And then you'll be relieved, you can close more, more often, but I don't think that's how you'll get the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75466	Okay. We heard all the clubs that made their views known. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has discussed requests for the removal of immunity, for the initiation of proceedings, for the approval of detention. It has subsided its reports and that proposal to meet again the Mandate-Immunity Commission in an extended composition with MPs at an unpublic, closed session has no reason to call such a meeting. First of all, the chairman of the Mandate Commission is, he does not call or intend to call. Secondly, the debate was concluded on the Mandate Commission reports. This is not a court hearing or a case of evidence that the debate can be re-opened. Therefore, there is no opening of the debate and renewal of the debate because the debate is closed. Therefore, I accept the proposals of clubs that have made their views and which propose that the debate be held, that the vote be held now and immediately. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75467	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in my speech, I said that we wanted three days ago from the Mandate-Immunity Commission to call an extended session of the closed type. So since Article 104 states that the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes to the Assembly to make a decision on the immunity of MPs, as much as I see some other clubs as necessary in order to make it necessary for the Commission and explain why it has made such a decision. We've never heard of Parliament's representatives as an explanation before. We just got a decision to see how the commission voted. So I ask you to consider the request obviously and those who have joined the HSS Club and to vote on holding a closed session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75468	The mandate committee has made its decisions. The assembly at the plenary session discusses whether or not to approve the decisions of the Mandate Commission? Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, Club of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75469	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I would also like to make a statement on this proposal by the HSS Club, and if you are going to vote then on behalf of the Club, in accordance with Article 229(3), we are looking for a name vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75470	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, the HDSSB Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75471	Mr. President, I ask you, with all due respect to the institution of President-in-Office of the Parliament, that you do not twist what is in this House, and for the Assembly's pay phone spoken and requested. We've asked for a vote among other things. When this debate was opened, we heard from the Croatian Democratic Community Club that they were withdrawing their proposal. It's an extremely important fact. A proposal that was discussed before the debate was concluded. The debate is therefore not closed without only discussing the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission but also the proposal of the ruling party. And the debate was focused. So we're looking for and supporting Mr. Pecek's proposal. A new session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission with MPs and the introduction of a full introduction to the subject in order to make a valid decision. We haven't actually heard formally, formally, that the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community has been withdrawn. We are also looking for a new debate, a new debate after the meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission in the Croatian Parliament. And of course we're asking for a single vote on each decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75472	Thank you very much. I'll do it again. The debate is closed. The mandate-immunity commission has made its decisions. The Assembly should confirm them or not confirm them. This is what the Parliament will vote on, as all MPs will vote. We are going to, a name vote has been requested, and we will vote accordingly, with this request and the Rules of Procedure and by name. President, President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, please go ahead and we'll vote on, we'll vote on the proposals of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We'll vote first. [[/Intruder: What about the Croatian Democratic Community's proposal?]] Easy! First we will vote, there is no, first we will vote on the confirmation of the Decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the granting of authorisation for the detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek addressed through the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75473	That's right, Mr. President, because we have a written proposal from the Croatian Peasant Party Club and we have to declare it first, and only then move on to this part of which you are now forcing. Therefore, you cannot make such a decision and, on behalf of the Croatian Party, I say you are going first. If you do not want then I request a session of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to be shown about the business justification of the application of the HSS Club and the business basis. You can't go over it, because this is the previous question, and it's very important and you're breaking the Rules of Procedure that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75474	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, please peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75475	Well, Mr. President, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. You want to do something by force. I don't think it makes any sense that it actually doesn't make sense to tear down dignity in this Croatian Assembly in this way. Well, you can't break the Rules of Procedure. There's been a number of suggestions made here. You, Mr. President, are violating the Rules of Procedure and I'm looking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75476	I do not violate the Rules of Procedure because the meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission is convened by the President of the Mandate Commission. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75477	... and call upon the Assembly's conclusion. [[Specially enabled.]] The gentleman from the HSS has proposed a conclusion to be held, the Assembly shall draw the conclusion that an urgent call is to be convened and hold a session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, where all MPs will be present. Please study this Rules of Procedure better, or maybe you're pretending you don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75478	I won't be rude and impeccable like you are now. I know the Rules of Procedure well, so don't teach me anything I know, and you don't know. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go. ... You're not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] HDZ representative club, respected representative Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75479	Previous sessions have been asked by many clubs to vote immediately on the Mandate-Immunity Commission report, including these clubs that are now asking not to vote. Therefore, we have accepted as a club your proposal to approach the vote immediately in this case and I do not see any business reason not to approach the vote because as it began, you can look forever for this or that. Rules of Procedure should be followed, and Rules of Procedure say Article 25 Rules of Procedure, that the Parliament shall also decide on the basis of the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75480	Gentlemen, well, shall we lead the debate into infinity? Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75481	Of course, this is how you can lead the debate to an end when you violate the Rules of Procedure. Well, we're not as naive and as silly as you guys are holding it. So, Mr. Baby, how can you bring this sort of thing out here in the Croatian Parliament? Well, you pulled your HDZ proposal behind this pay phone, no explanation whatsoever, outside the club. And we weren't just asking for a vote. We've also asked for a new debate since the fact that you brought to the club is important, although you've formally withdrawn the written proposal, you haven't withdrawn your proposal. So, Mr. President, don't make a farce out of this Croatian Parliament anymore. So don't break it to the Rules of Procedure, follow the Rules of Procedure. You also have suggestions for interpreting the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You have Mr. Pecek's suggestion. You have our proposal and a proposal for more clubs to call a new session, a new session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. If nothing else, then because of the fact that it was the first decision that was said and that it was claimed against the constitution. Isn't that what your ears are for? Anti-constitutional. Isn't it funny that seven days ago you're standing firm and now after seven days you're with your position you don't agree? I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75482	A colleague, Šišljagić, will vote on this, will be voted on...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75483	... a 30-minute break...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75484	... will be voted on through the Commission's report's proposals. I won't and there can't be any further discussion. I won't. I don't schedule a session of the Mandate Commission and it won't be held or held. We're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75485	I'm outside the club looking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75486	You've already got the apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75487	No, I didn't get it because you're violating the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75488	You can't ask Stanko for a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Parliament. We're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75489	Oh, the new circumstances have been presented, Mr. President. In addition to violating the Rules of Procedure of the New Circumstances are...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75490	I don't break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75491	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75492	Gentlemen, that's the thing, it'll be settled by vote. That'll be settled by voting. Gentlemen, please, let's go to the vote. Let's go to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Rosic. [[We can't get a word on behalf of the club.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the HSP club would also like to join the pause if we could write proposals of our conclusions that we gave up because they were submitted by the Croatian Democratic Community. Since Croatia's democratic community has played us in a certain way now, because we have not submitted our proposals to the conclusion. I ask you to give us the opportunity to submit our proposals for conclusions that could be voted on before this, as should be voted, which have already been translated into debate. We're not even asking to have another debate. We are merely asking to submit the conclusions that the Croatian Democratic Community has drawn, and in agreement with us, we have not submitted. I think it's familiar to both you and the public and everyone. We are now in a situation where we must vote on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and we have held a debate on the conclusions of the Croatian Democratic Community. What was that crazy argument?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75494	No, I don't. The debate was held on decisions and proposals of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, with a proposal to conclude the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. Ladies and gentlemen, last time, the debate is closed, and I'm not going to re-open it, and we're going to vote. Please vote on the next one. Under the first establishment of a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the granting of authorisation for the detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the County State Attorney in Osijek, addressed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting in favour of a decision confirming the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of 23 October 2006 on the granting of authorisation for the detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek, addressed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. You're welcome to call the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75495	Jeane Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Irena Ahel – za, Zdenko Antešić, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Željka Antunović – za, Franjo Arapović – za, Mato Arlović, Zdenka Babić Petričević, Stjepan Bačić, Anto Bagarić, Marija Bajt, Ivo Banac – za, Luka Bebić, Marijan Bekavac – za, Jure Bitunjac – za, Jure Bitunjac – za, Florijan Boras, Dražan Bošnjak, Ljubača Brdarić – Za, Mirjana Brdać – Za, Za, Krešimir Bukić, Karmela Kaparin, Mato Krkjan Žač, Mirko Žačan Žačač, Mirko Žačačačač – Laj Čačak – Laj Čičak – Laj Čik Čiljak – Lukić Čik Čik, Zdan Čik – Zdankić – Zdankić – Zdankić – Zda Čuk, Zdnjakić, Zd, Zdnjak, Zdnjakić, Zdnjakjakjakjakjakić, Za, Zdić, Koš, K. Jene Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Marija Bajt, Miroslav Čačija, Ivan Čehok, Mirjana Didović, Valter Drandić, Ivan Drmić - v, Ratko Gajica, Branimir Glavas, Silvano Hrelja, Vlado Jukić, Ljubo Jurčić, Ivan Kolar, Pero Kovačević, Zlatko Kramarić, Ljubica Lalic, Željko Ledinski, Ivo Lončar, Ante Markov, Neven Mimica, Ivica Pančić, Bozidar Pankretić, Željko Picek, Toninocula, Valter Poropat, Dragutin Pukleš, Milorad Pupovac, Furio Radin, Luka Roć, Miroslav Rožić, Zvonimir Sabati, Petar Selem, Vladimir Šišljagić - v, Tončija Todić, Rudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75496	Ladies and gentlemen, with 106 votes in favour of, 5 against, 3 abstentions, a decision was taken confirming the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of 23 October this year on the granting of authorisation for the detention and initiation of a criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek. Secondly, I am giving the vote to confirm the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on granting approval for the detention of Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the County Court of Zagreb investigative judge Zdenka Posavac. I am voting in favour of a decision confirming the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of 26 October this year on the granting of approval for the detention of Representative Branimir Glavas at the request of the County Court of Zagreb investigative judge Zdenko Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75497	- Jeane Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Irena Ahel - za, Zdenko Antešić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Željka Antunović - za, Franjo Arapović - za, Mato Arlović - za, Zdenka Babić-Petičević, Stjepan Bačić, Anto Bagarić, Marija Bajt, Ivo Banac - za, Luka Bebić, Marijan Bekavac - za, Jure Bitunjac - za, Florijan Boras - za, Dražan Bošnjaković - za, Ljubica Brdarić - za, Mirjana Brnadić - za, Perica Bukić - for, Perica Bukić - Za, Karmljek Žačaža Žažažak - Žaža, Miraža Žaža Žaža, Mira Ža Ža Ža Žažak - Za, Mir, Mir, Miražak Ža Žažak - Za, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mira Ža Ža Žažažak - Za, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir Žažažažaža Žažažažk, Žažak and Žažak, Žažak and Ža Žižak, Žižak and Žažak, Žažk, Žižak, Žižk, Žižk, Žižk, Žižk, Žyk, Žižk, Žyk, Žyk, Žyk, Žyk, Žyk, Žyk and Žyk, Žyk and Žykić - Zyk and KK and K. Jene Adam, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Marija Bajt, Miroslav Čačija, Ivan Čehok, Zdenka Čuhnil, Mirjana Didović, Valter Drandić, Branimir Glavas, Silvano Hrelja, Ivo Josipović, Vlado Jukić, Ljubo Jurčić, Ivan Kolar, Alenka Košisa Čičin-Sain, Pero Kovačević, Zlatko Kramarić, Željko Kurtov, Ljubica Lalić, Željko Ledinski, Ivo Lončar, Ante Markov, Neven Mimica, Ivica Pankretić, Željko Picek, Tonino Picula, Valter Poropat, Dragutin Pukleš, Milorad Radin, Furio Radin, Miroslav Sabati, Zvonimir Sabati, Petar Selem, Vladimir Šišljegić, Todić, Todić and Rudić, Rudić and Rudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75498	With 108 votes for, 3 against and 1 abstention, it has taken a decision confirming the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the granting of approval for the detention of Representative Branimir Glavas at the request of an investigative judge in Zagreb Zdenka Posavac. Third decision, confirming the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to grant approval for the detention of Branimir Glavas, representative in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the proposal for a decision confirming the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of 26 October. on the granting of an authorisation for detention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75499	Jane Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Irena Ahel - za, Zdenko Antešić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Željka Antunović - za, Franjo Arlović - za, Mato Arlović - za, Zdenka Babić-Petičević - za, Jure Bitunjac - za, Florijan Borašić - za, Ivan Bagarić - za, Ljubica Brdarić - za, Mirjana Brnadić - za, Kayo Bucan, Perica Bukić - za, Karmela Kaparin - za, Mato Crkvenac, Miroslav Čehok, Lino Červar - za, Lucija Čijana Brnaš - za, Za, Žačan Žačan Žačan Žažar, Žažan Žažan Žažar, Žažan Žažan Ža - Zrad Žažan Žažan Žažak - Zalić, Mir, Žažan Žaž, Mir, Mir, Mir, Žažak, Žažak and Žaž, Žažak and Žažak Žaž, Mražalić, Žažak Žažalić, Žažak, Žažalić, Žažalić, Žažalić, Žažalić, Žažak, Žažak, Žažak, Žažak, Žažak, Ž. - Z. - Z. Jene Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Marija Bajt, Miroslav Čačija, Ivan Čehok, Mirjana Didović, Valter Drandić, Ivan Drmić – v, Ratko Gajica, Branimir Glavas, Silvano Hrelja, Vlado Jukić, Ljubo Jurčić, Ivan Kolar, Pero Kovačević, Zlatko Kramarić, Željko Kurt, Ljubica Lalić, Željko Ledinski, Ivo Lončar, Ante Markov, Neven Mimica, Ivica Pančić, Božidar Pankretić, Željko Picek, Tonino Picula, Valter Porop, Dragutin Pukleš, Milorad Pupović, Milorad Radin, Furio Radin, Luka Roić, Miroslav Rožić, Zvonimir Sabati, Petar Selam, Petar Selam, Nenadak Selam, Nenad Šalem, Tonjadić, Tović, Tović, Todić Todić, Todić, Todić
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75500	Thank you. I note that with 105 votes for, 5 against and 3 abstentions, a decision confirming the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of 26 October on the granting of approval for the detention of Branimir Glavas of representatives in the Croatian Assembly at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb. On behalf of the HDZ club, respected deputy vice president Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75501	Since the Parliament has decided on all three of these proposals of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I am withdrawing our proposal on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-15-0.u75502	Yeah, it's been consummated. We continue the session with the State Budget Proposal for the Republic of Croatia for 2007, with the proposal [[Good job, Luka.]] Budget projections for 2008 and 2009. [[Vladimir Shakespeare, shame on you!]] Representative Drmić, learn order and courtesy and choose to learn to take a little book about bonton and education. Here you go from the assembly room! ... Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're going to teach us about morality?- I'm sorry. It is you who are the moral verticals and the size you will teach, who will teach morals. You're just a decorative specimen of that vertical. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system pursuant to Article 267. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting in favour of the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system given at the request of the representative of Vesna Škara Ozbolt in connection with the confiscation of words during the debate on the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 79 votes to accept that opinion.
