ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73663	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, namely the area of quality and food safety is one of those areas and legislation and life in which we want to fully accept and apply the most European Union standards, primarily for the sake of citizens and for our consumers. The 2003 Food Act requires extensive changes. According to the MPP, we proposed it for the fourth quarter, and we expect to refer it to this House of the High as a government during the 11th month. Namely, the Food Act should be amended in the quality, declaration and protection of indigenous products, but there is also a hygiene package, so several European Union regulations on safety, on the health regularity of food and feed to be implemented and which is likely to go, I will not now prejudge but in the form of a new Food Safety Act. Why were we planning this deadline? First of all, for reasons because during this year, we had "screening" in Bruxell and where, during the analysis of the compliance of our legislation with EU legislation, we came to new facts, knowledge and new obligations in this segment. However, there was a need for partial intervention in law. We know that these regulations of law are not popular but it was necessary. It is the provision of Article 29. Food law where requirements regarding the self-control system in food business entities are defined. Namely, these food business entities were obliged to set up "HASAP". Therefore, a system that will enable the identification of critical points and establish a system of continuous control and remove all those and biological and chemical and physico-chemical hazards for food contamination. Therefore, the aim of the introduction and implementation of "HASAPA" is primarily to produce hygienic and healthy proper food. Namely, “HASAP” is not only important because of this protection of consumers who have the right to secure and healthy proper food but also because of our food business and who receive the basis of the introduction of “HASAPA” so-called “HASAP”. The EU number, they receive an export number and can compete in this regard on the European Union's open market. The absence of this provision, therefore, in Article 29, which predicted that by July 31st of this year everyone must have introduced the "HASAP" food business, so the entire food industry, would mean in terms of the conduct of our inspections the closure of a large number of companies. Clearly, that is not our intention and that the opposite is what we want to help these companies. First of all, give them space and time, and also through various educations and through the Food Agency and through the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health and also through the co-financing programme of the introduction of "HASAP" into companies. So help these companies and this giving time exclusively has a reason in the next. The introduction of "HASAP" is not only an additional administration in the introduction of these standards but it requires serious and technological and technological interventions in companies to implement it in companies, those top veterinary and health standards. So as is the case in the countries of the European Union. The proposal therefore means that the application of this Article 29 to food business operators is delayed by 1 January 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73664	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73665	Inaccurately, Mr. Secretary of State said that now after so many years, he said literally: "So with this extension of the deadlines of the legal we want to help these entities." These entities who know exactly what their obligations are, what are the obligations of the relevant Ministry? And so before the end of your term, you come with an extension of three years. That's right, so you're not helping a subject like this. You were supposed to help them achieve that deadline. You're all prolonging for 2009 instead of now passing the bills you've done, you're extending the deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73666	Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73667	Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry discussed the Regulation report at its 43rd session, held on 4 October. The Committee discussed the report as a parent body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that, for objective reasons, a larger number of entities operating with Harn could not comply with the provisions of Article 29. The food law has therefore been assessed as requiring a postponement of its application, which was done through the adoption of the Regulation. In the discussion of that report, several members of the Committee raised doubts as to the content of the Food Amendments and Supplements Regulation on the grounds that there is a concern that the postponement of the self-control system in food production facilities in accordance with the principles of analysis, hazards and control of the critical points of the HAS may endanger human health but also favour the gray market. This fear primarily refers to the operations of slaughterhouses and similar objects. It was also indicated that no information was provided on how many food business entities had established a system of self-control and how many were not. However, in further discussion, some members of the Committee support a solution from that administration, the regulation, which indicated that the postponement of the application of this expensive self-control system in food production facilities is justified. Because food producers can prepare in detail for its application, both human and technical. On behalf of the craftsman, the present representative of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, in the first order of the caterers, supports the adoption of that report, as the solution set out in the Regulation amending and supplementing the Food Act is favourable to them. Namely, the hosts lost a lot of time in preparation both because of the fact that all food business entities are located at the end of the chain and because of the non-compliance with the implementing rules. In further discussion, the opinion is that it is not for one such important substance that can be reflected in agriculture, which is the implementation of the Food Act by regulation. On the basis of the debate, the proposal was made to propose to the Croatian Parliament a conclusion on the adoption of the Report of the Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. However, that proposal did not receive the required majority. 5 votes for, 4 votes against and 1 vote abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73668	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73669	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of the Croatian Parliament has informed this House that it adopted the Regulation amending and supplementing the Food Act, which was published on 26 July 2006. The Regulation itself consists of two articles, and the following is the point. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The food law defines requirements regarding the self-control system in food business entities where an exemption for primary production has been made. The subject in the food business is obliged to establish a system of self-control in food production facilities in accordance with the principles of risk analysis and control of critical points. These principles prescribe a number of logical steps to be followed, and the result of proper treatment and implementation of these principles will be hygienic and healthy proper food. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The food law has been delayed to apply this Article 29 to a period of 3 years from the date of entry into force of the Law, i.e. until 31 July 2006. Given that most of the operators in the food business for objective reasons, mainly because of the costs and necessary investments in buildings and human resources, were not able to meet this provision. The deadline for application of this provision has been postponed until 1 January 2009. As I said, the introduction of this system certainly requires considerable investment. We think that the postponement of the application of this system is justified because food producers can further and better prepare for the care of the use, both human and technical. Here are the reasons why the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support this report in order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73670	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73671	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The Croatian Party Rights Club will not support the Report on a regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. There are more reasons why we won't support it. All of us are already well aware of our view that the legal institute for law enforcement in this country has become a rule, i.e., and should be subject to the Constitution of an exception under Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But in this case, we believe that the adoption of this Food Regulation has been violated by the Government not only in Article 87. The Constitution, but it also violated Article 3. A law that gives her the right to regulate this matter by regulations of law. Why do we say that? Because of the fact that for us, the right to proper hygiene and health food is one of the fundamental rights. And for us at the HSP club, that's human rights. So that's the part where we can't get over it. That's human rights to us. And what's the government's message? The government, Mr. Secretary of State, for 3 years you knew it was time to introduce the KASAP system on July 31st this year. What were you waiting for? It's been known for three years to do that. What kind of message is that to the Croatian public? With the right of the Croatian public, we have had many cases where food imports have occurred, various. Let's think of that beef from Argentina, all kinds of other situations. How and how did that end? So it's a very dangerous message for Croatian citizens, you'll be eating unhealthy food, uncontrollable food by 1.1.2009, and then we'll try to introduce that system. So with such a provision, we enter into fundamental human rights. And who are they going to, this change to whom it goes? It goes to smugglers, shoppers and buyers. They've got her on their hands. Who's she pointing at? It is directed against Croatian citizens. It is directed against Croatian citizens, because the right to healthy food with the part that goes towards consumer protection rights is certainly one of the fundamental rights. So for three years there's been enough time and there's a responsibility to determine why it wasn't working on that part. As far as I know, this law, and when it was passed, it had a P.Z. code. So it was a alignment with the legal gains of the European Union. Therefore, this is inadmissible to treat Croatian citizens in this way and to tell them you will continue to eat untested junk food, and we know what it is and how all imports are imported. How much money is there and who doesn't eat and how it is treated and then we don't need to be surprised that this is the part that's actually going to encourage corruption, and this law that we introduced this system of KASAP gives us tentacles to those who deal with these affairs cut off give a good message to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73672	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73673	Mr. President, one detail I really need to correct when Mr. Kovacevic is exposed. He said the adoption of government regulations with legal force has become a practice, not an exception. I think the data's still being denied, so we need to look at the data. So the fact is it doesn't stand. Government regulations are indeed an exception.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73674	Dear Representative Vlado Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73675	Here, Mr. President, I must correct three messages from Mr. Kovacevic, or quote. These aren't dangerous messages, this isn't about uncontrollable food, and this isn't about encouraging corruption. I don't think this pay phone should really send it to the public, because Croatian health services control cca 50,000 samples per year on microbiologically and 35 to 40 samples on chemical parameters. On average, 8 to 10 microbiological and 4 to 6 chemical are incorrect. So the food control laws in Croatia are correct, but you're just looking at the legal thing because you're not actually following what it is, which is the standard and the fact is that this is helping not only citizens, but companies, but hospitality, but schools, etc. and it is a process that must go slowly and prepare itself financially, and also in human resources to be able to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73676	It was the correction of MP Tomislav Tomic, and I misnamed him Vlado. And Krono Peronja's esteemed representative, the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73677	Mr. President, Secretary of State. A colleague incorrectly said that by the time this law was delayed, we would eat unhealthy food. It is still being controlled today, for example by the county public health care institutions, and today we eat first-class and high-quality food. It is also in line with Article 89. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73678	For the HSS club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73679	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will not support this regulation-related report for very clear reasons. I have to point out here that this is an extremely important matter. I think that the Food Act is one of the most important acts yet passed in 2003 and its implementation could have been done in many segments much more than has been done. Unfortunately, what has been done so far has only changed in this law that the Agency's headquarters is not in Zagreb but is in Osijek, I have no objection, but what is important for that agency has had to function. Unfortunately, whether or not they wanted to admit that agency doesn't work. Her importance I will try to show on very specific things which is and I think he is not here in the interest of a particular club, not to say in the interest of us that in a political debate we will outwitted someone etc. It is in the interest of the Croatian state, in the interest of all citizens and therefore it would be extremely good if we were all a little more critical of this report on the regulation for a clear reason, and that is why we have here a proposal to make an important provision for three years. I think that such a very extensive debate has been translated on both the board and the board, as you have heard before, has not adopted a positive opinion on this part and has not given passage to this report. So the proposal here is short, it's an article 29 that defines KASAP, those who are at home in that area, so to emphasize, they know what it's about. It is an extremely important part that concerns many segments, many businesses, many entrepreneurs who need to comply with important things. It's not something new that we wouldn't think was something that was defined in 2003. We have a series of companies today that apply that system, companies that I would say consistent with that. And what we all have to ask ourselves together, and we didn't get those answers, which is an argument. Which is why someone has not specifically told us how many companies, how many of these entities cannot be coordinated, how many of them are unable to do the job and what it means in that part. Whether it's just some assessment that's subjective, at least I had that feeling I still have, subjective character, so here's someone assessed it for someone, and it didn't get in, I'd say in a detailed analysis, and the gentlemen might say, that prolongat might have to be a little bit in that part, so in a few months we'll get there or we'll tell the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the competent ministry will invest all its strength I would say, and primarily those financial ones that we don't know from the last debate, to help these businesses in any case, to get them to be able. We don't extend a certain thing, we don't define things when they're going to be. I have to say in detail by reading the law, and I have to warn here. It's not just a question that I would say the most, this article 29 falls into my eyes, and then a regulation is passed. I'll read it to you, and I think there are at least a dozen provisions of the Food Act that have not been defined to this day, and no deadlines are known. so I would ask that this is really taken into account, that this is clearly considered because we do not need a law that will be a good law as written, but it is nowhere to be applied, and I would not remind you that the Law on Food of many things, especially those that happen to us or do not want to admit, for the disastrous and poor balance of imports of agricultural products can be put very clearly under control in one elegant way. Article 16(3) speaks, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry shall, with the agreement of the Minister of Health, lay down rules on the application of any procedure in the production and preparation of food, which may affect hygiene and health. Those rules were to be adopted by July 2005 under Article 106 of the applicable law. He wasn't brought in. Article 21(3) of food imports, prescribed international licence, certificate, international contract. If the contract does not have the recognition of the certificate under the implementing rules adopted by the Minister, that regulation should also be adopted by July 2005 under Article 106 of the applicable law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The content, form and method of keeping the records, and the procedure for marking the registration number by the Minister of Agriculture, should be adopted by 7 months 2005. Article 26(1), food business operators at the level of production preparation, should ensure the systematic implementation of the general or specific conditions of food hygiene established by the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry by the implementing regulation, should be adopted by 7 month 2005. This Regulation shall enter Implementing rules for issuing authorisations without which it is not possible to place new food on the market for the first time without a deadline, have not been adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Minister of Agriculture and Forestry shall prescribe the specific labelling of products of animal origin in accordance with this Act and the regulations in veterinary matters. It was to be delivered by the 7th month 2004, not delivered. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The implementing rules on closer requirements relating to the declaration of new food to GMOs, 7 months 2004, have not been adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Test laboratories authorised to carry out specialised activities and to issue international certificates shall meet the conditions laid down by the relevant standards and shall be accredited by an independent institution. Article 113 of the applicable Law provides that the Law shall enter into force on the 8th day following its publication, with the exception of Article 29. This deadline has been delayed by the Government by a regulation, but this article is not like Article 75 which unfortunately are not met. I don't think it's on anyone's disposal to stress what reference laboratories mean, which means their accreditation and what it's necessary to do in that part. This Regulation shall enter If the time limit is extended as set out in Article 29, then this Article 75 is also not published in this list of reference laboratories which, unfortunately, are not yet available in the National Journal. It should also be mentioned that in accordance with Article 77. The Croatian Food Agency in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Health must develop a general plan for managing the food health crisis, and this plan is adopted by the Government. It wasn't brought, when will it be brought? Of the 53 laboratories, it's accredited with all letters and numbers 6. I think it says enough that we are not able to control the food that comes to the Croatian market in this way and I think it is an extremely problematic situation in which there is not a single word in this regulation, nothing is said about it. We're postponing an article, we're discussing it, and here's the list of just one piece. Here, I can add a few more articles that have not been done, which are not considered, which are extremely important for the overall segment of regulation of this topic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is the first placing on the market of feed for animals and food ingredients for animals containing or consisting of GMOs. The applicant must obtain authorisation in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the specific list. Article 3(3), conditions and procedure for issuing authorisations, and paragraph 5, content, form and method of keeping a register of issued licences. I'm afraid not either. The declaration of food for animals must comply with the general requirements laid down in Article 52 of this Act and the regulation adopted by the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. I have to point out that, here, there's still, I have to tell you another 5, 6 of these articles that here, that I'm not stating in this part, which unfortunately are not defined, that they don't have in some way a deadline in that part that isn't fulfilled. And I must say, I must say, unfortunately, the Law, a good food law has not been put into office. It wasn't put into service, not to use some harder words, but here it was. It was not put into office because of the lack of work on the law, the non-implementation, the irresponsibility of the Government that was to enforce the Law. If it does not comply with the law, then we cannot discuss here today one enforcement of a regulation that only postpones one Article 29 without anyone even mentioning the other 10 articles that I have listed here. It would be at least correct, if you're going to say it, it can't be done, it won't be done or I don't know, any other reason, it should be said, gentlemen, let's postpone the whole law. We can't do that, let's take responsibility, but then we'd know what it is. This is unfortunately in my personal opinion, in my opinion I believe my club, in that part irresponsible because it is trying to through one article extremely important, it is certainly, but also other things related to the Food Act, along with the Agency to put ad act. In all this, here I have taken this opportunity, I will not continue to say why this regulation was adopted just 2, 3 days after the Croatian Parliament completed its session. Maybe we could all talk about it together, go through it. I will not talk here about the need to discuss this in the first, second quarter of our commitment to the European Union and adaptation. I don't know if we'll discuss the fourth quarter as the government has committed. It's all very disputable for me, but I have to say very irresponsible because I don't think a report like this should be accepted. I think the Committee has also given a good direction that this Parliament should approach all of this and in one responsible way and we, as advocates, give a clear message. The Agency is necessary, the Food Act must be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73680	Thank you. We'll continue at 3:00. The first is the respected vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic, on behalf of the SDP Club. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and debate on the Report on a Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The SDP club, a respected representative, vice president of Dom Mato Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73682	Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to immediately declare on behalf of our club that the Report of the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority or more precisely by the Regulation amending and supplementing the Food Act will not be supported. There are a number of reasons why I will continue to make our views known and explain them, but first let us make one or two principled remarks again. And this regulation is an indication that in fact the legislative delegation, which the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's powers to regulate certain issues of the Croatian Parliament, has passed on to the Croatian Government, shows that it should be abolished for several reasons. And that such power should not be given at this time. Secondly, what this Regulation shows, and some others about it, is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia very often has its constitutional authority to regulate the enforcement of the law by regulations, and also by law prescribes a whole series of obligations that regulations, decisions, regulations and other acts, implementing acts, will actually ensure that the law is implemented and implemented. The most recent example is the Food Act, there is no need for me to state the examples already presented in the morning debate on behalf of the HSS club by counterpart Pankretic. However, it is not just the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry. There is a similar situation in other ministries, and in such a situation something is happening which is actually somewhat surprising. The surprising fact is that there are no implementing rules that need to ensure the enforcement of the law on the one hand and, on the other hand, to actually contribute to the establishment of the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and, on the other hand, very often to the adoption of implementing rules or regulation with legal force which is practically appropriate to certain often target groups to achieve certain benefits or interests or to protect, for example, the interests of the state budget. For example, by calling on the Regulation to be implemented by the Government, to ensure the enforcement of the law in accordance with the Constitution, I will only mention one decision, namely that decision is called the Decision on the determination of the amount for the implementation of the model and programme of state aid in agriculture, fisheries and forestry and the maximum promotion of the quantities of certain products in 2004. This Decision, in practice, established by law and budget, and the Law on the implementation of the budget, has in fact been amended. And the government, by means of an implementing regulation, amended the law to the detriment of those who were actually meant to encourage certain production, to adopt certain productions, to set up certain quantities and qualities with a view, among other things, to actually substitute in this segment of economic and social relations a huge part of the imports that we actually make for the needs of the population and society. It is also a similar example with this Regulation. So, like with someone else. First, it's amazing but this Regulation was adopted on 20.7. this year, it came into effect on the 26th hour of publication, which we will particularly talk about, this year, but it practically means that it was adopted five days after the constitutional deadline or the pause was completed. The same situation was similar with that famous regulation adopted from 18 January 2006 on the completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers, etc. The question arises, in fact, why does the government break the law by such regulations? And this Regulation has broken the Constitution. And now, when you read the real reason why it's actually being delayed? The application of Article 29 to ensure the health and hygiene of food in the Republic of Croatia is delayed. It is not only a problem to ensure this in accordance with the law but it is a problem that, by not applying this law, it actually happens to favour importers of food in the Republic of Croatia who do not have to apply this provision among other things, and then we have that situation, for example, with meat being imported, which is six months old in the Republic of Croatia, and of course was sold at other prices. Now, let's take a look at the aspect of national interests. To every nation, every social community must be of interest to have a healthy, healthy population and to prevent any form of possible improvement or action on human health. In addition, that is how we in the Constitution have said, in the article of the Constitution which applies to this issue clearly, Article 69, I will quote: "Each one has a right to a healthy life. The state provides conditions for healthy... ".. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the question is raised, which means everyone has the right to be guaranteed by the Constitution on a healthy life when at the same time we are passing laws that require the health and hygiene of the right foods to be provided in Croatia that are placed in circulation. Unbelievable, but true. Now the question is actually what do you do with this Regulation? The question is, what do you do with the Food Act in the first place? The question of our own responsibilities as a legislative body and as an executive body is raised, I agree when they say: yes, so some of the entrepreneurs, economic operators will make it difficult to work or will not be able to work if the law is applied. But how did they even get the conditions that they could work if they couldn't secure the hygiene and technical and health and other preconditions to be, to have healthy foods that are being placed on the market. I'm just reminding you of the newspaper signs when the inspection checked out the slaughterhouses in our house what happened. And we are now passing a law by which we practically legalize or open a legal void because the law will not apply, so that it can be done and solved. Who's gonna pay like a cashier? Citizens of this country and twice that. First, prices will remain the same. Secondly, it will actually be possible to make cheaper, but not always more quality food we continue to import and to pay at more expensive prices and to make extra profit and income, and on the third hand we will expose one part of the citizens to possible forms of unhygienic and even health-questioning food or foods that are placed on the market and questionable. For this reason, it is completely unacceptable for us to say this part, to support this regulation and, above all, to say it for health reasons, then for economic reasons, it is quite clear that if the Food Act is started, that is, Article 29 and not only him, but also a whole series of others who need to provide implementing rules for quality and healthy food that we will get both the export number and so on. and that this will create a real assumption that we encourage our food producers and food processors and traders and wholesalers to actually go into export rather than import. Instead, we're actually passing a law that for another 3 years... It's a fact that needs to be shown. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second fact to which it must appear, the time to adapt even though we have a heavy heart and when the law was passed we have agreed to it and any 3 years, 3 years is not little, it is a lot of time to adapt, to create assumptions technical and hygienic actually to be produced in... they put in healthy foods, i.e. proper food. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are now extending this deadline to a further two and a half years, almost three years, until 1 January 2009, and even if we are looking at this aspect and this is questionable from the aspect of the law or obligation to comply our laws in the area of the agricultural and food system with the European Union and with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which says that most of these regulations should be harmonised at the latest in 2008. So when you look at everything together, then this is really questionable. Now allow a few formal-legal reasons that are formal-legal at first sight, so not only this constitutional-legal aspect, but also this formal-legal one, but the reality behind it is something more serious. In fact, this shows a relatively penignant disregard for the Parliament or if you want a underestimateive attitude toward the Parliament. You know, if the Constitution explicitly states that the law enters into force at the earliest 8th day of its publication unless, for a particularly justified reason, the law provides otherwise, it is impossible to adopt a regulation with the legal force that enters into force immediately on the day of its publication in the "National Journal" and to satisfy the explanation that this is the end of the period from 31.6 years would have started to apply, and that is because it is adopted on 20 July then it should be applied on 31 July, and that is the reason that it must come before. Dude, what were we, like, three years ago? Well, for three years, it's been a probationary period or a delay to adapt our economic system to the law so that we have healthy proper food, or legal assumptions that we can control that hygienic and healthy food is in circulation and we wait for the last day. Secondly, it is important to ask whether the deadline itself can be a particularly valid reason to delay something and of course it is not. But what is far more important is the very content of the Constitution in Article 69, which says that it is actually a guarantee of a healthy life, which is not at all looked at or even better in relation to Article 50, which argument a contrastio says if human health is threatened, then property rights and entrepreneurial rights can be limited. So instead of limiting ownership rights and entrepreneurial rights because there are no hygienic, technical and other preconditions that we have healthy and correct foods because it can endanger people's health, and we pass a law that extends the deadline that we don't apply the law to such things. Well, that's really more to ask where and where it's going. Second formally, at first sight, a formal-legal reason that also shows that underestimating approaches to the Parliament. In the end, it is said that the said Regulation is, by reason, supplied in the attachment. Please, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is not possible to find an explanation in the regulation anywhere. There is a reason for Article 1 and Article 2 of the Regulation, content, but a reason why a real regulation is adopted, which are economic indicators, which are social indicators, which are economical, on which, at the beginning of the opening address of the proposing representatives, there has been some words, there is nowhere to be found, and there is no explanation whatsoever, which is why it is actually calling for this part and why the constitutional provision was not respected. And the last thing I have to say on behalf of our club, which also points to the conclusion that it is not possible to vote for this regulation is related to an article among other 87. A constitution that says that only in a time of one year can, except for those which are explicitly established by the Constitution by human rights and fundamental freedoms. This Regulation shall enter The constitution I was just talking about falls under point 3. Economic, social and cultural rights, Chapter 3. Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is therefore undeniable that when it comes to food and in particular certain provisions relating to the quality and protection of food as a source of health protection, this is about human rights. It is clear, therefore, that this regulation was not possible to amend and supplement the law although the government wanted something to do with it, it had to appear before the Parliament as a proposal to amend and supplement the law. All this shows, in fact, that we do not have constitutional legal basis to support this regulation and therefore the SDP Representatives' Club will vote against this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73683	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73684	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives, the Honorable Representative of the Government. So counterpart Arlovic could almost be said in the form of essays to explain the rule of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the legal authority to regulate matter from the Parliament's section in the period when the Parliament does not meet and, in a formal sense, it would be only satisfactory that it is related to this Regulation. Only satisfying, essential. According to the Constitution and under the law, therefore, the law given by the Parliament to the Government within a year and set by law a deadline. The government has also ignored the deadline laid down by the law and the Constitution that the regulations can be passed with the legal force for a maximum period of one year. That regulation changes the law, now we're just talking about a formal act. The law and this regulation extends to three years and the government has the power to regulate matters by regulation for a year and a half, ex-legislatively, this regulation will cease once the authority we gave last week, which we gave to the Government to decide in a formal sense. So whether we want it or not, whether it's the government or not, it's the constitution and the law that's in force right now, this regulation can only be worth a year. Just a year. After a year, it's the law. And this automatically applies to the law, so all the bonds from what Pankretic said will be subject to conditions or to a standard in the production of food required by law. Does this mean the government's concern to raise the competitiveness of the food producer in the Republic of Croatia and prepare them for the European Competition? It is, in my court, irresponsibility essential but let me, I must say, that the government took away such behaviour by at least in this case exclusively, exclusively the right of the Croatian Parliament to regulate matters by law. One more thing. This matter is not from the current economic policy, which the Constitution says that only regulations can regulate things that are from the current economic policy. In other words, this is continuity. I've got this government's 9th regulation on me. Nine regulations, they've all been brought in the same way. Therefore, the government has not missed or that the direct need to protect someone has passed a regulation with a legal force contrary to the law and against the Constitution has extended the term of 3 years and has been authorised for only a year, but it does so systematically, changing the will of the representative and legislative body. What is the content of the Regulation? It is a colleague of Arlovic and counterpart Pankretic, he could say really well pointed out. They pointed out thoroughly that the law obliged manufacturers or those who put food in circulation, so to speak, to have or to ensure the hygiene of health care and control of that food. Now the government by its act against the Constitution, the opposite of the law says, we won't apply it for another 3 years. We will not apply this for another 3 years, although by the act of law-making, we are delaying the application of this provision for 3 years, which expired in July of this year. If we continue this way, what is the mission of the Parliament? Whether this is a difficult question or not, but it must simply be asked if, by one regulation, only 7 days after the actual end of the session of the Assembly, the Government decides to eliminate the Croatian Parliament's will as a legislative, representative body by its regulation. Just seven days. But imagine the government's responsibility in building the competitive capacity of the Croatian economy when it had no need for a regular session to change the law. Therefore, I think that, in this case, we should give the Parliament a warning to the Government to stick to the Constitution and the law given to it, I think it is necessary because in the current economic business there may be a need and then we will not discuss whether it is a guessing to someone or a group or not. It simply needs to be given to the government in order to protect sometimes the damages that may occur in the course of the Parliament’s meeting and the law strictly implements itself. For this reason, I wonder if the debate on the regulation report is a confirmation of the regulation? So it's not a confirmation of the regulations, it's not a conqualification of the regulations that the government has adopted. If it's not a convention, then this regulation will really be unconstitutional and illegal. Unconstitutional and illegal because it is time for the regulation to be valid for a year and by a regulation you changed the period of 3 years. You didn't even say in the regulation when it would stop. Not even to be published in "The People's Newspaper" as law users, legal entities, users simply reading the paper will know when this regulation ends. He won't know. They would have to be educated, trained to know the Constitution and the government's powers that the regulation only applies as long as the government's authority is governed by the law that we have given, and we can only do so for a year. I ask you not to support the adoption by your vote of acts that are illegal and unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73685	Thank you. State Secretary Dragan Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73686	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, given that a number of remarks have been raised in the debate which I would say most of these concerns the concept of consumer protection arrangements in the Republic of Croatia, the small part of the regulation, however, I think I have a duty to give certain answers. In fact, we have clearly stated this regulation, or these amendments, and the additions to the laws, are related exclusively to the extension of the deadline. We extend that deadline to allow our businesses to make adjustments that are not cheap over the next three years. So here we are only talking about the financial capabilities, the opportunities of our businesses and the demand for an amendment and this law, etc. First of all, it's an incentive from our companies. I'll just read you the information. Therefore, of the total thousand and 388 approved facilities in the register of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, 104 of the facilities that have been introduced has been registered. Therefore, we must be aware of a decision like this that could put more than a thousand and 300 companies in lockup this day. Therefore, when we talk about constitutional rights, it is also the constitutional rights of those employees there, etc. So, we're time to adjust to ensure we have to. When the issue of constitutionality has been raised here, consumer protection, their health, etc., we are all unique here. It is necessary to ensure maximum standards and assumptions that consumer health, that they receive responsible declared, healthy food, etc. However, here is Mr Kovacevic and I know that HasAP is not from a hundred years ago. HasAP began to run NASA first in America, and then from that project the food industry in America started somewhere in the 1980s, and then it started to introduce the European Union in the late 1980s and then in the 1990s the Republic of Croatia. Thus, Europe is late here for America and we can ask hypothetically whether Europeans have eaten garbage until then when HASAP was not introduced. Therefore, HASAP should only be seen as one of the standards and improvements of standards in health order so throughout this system of food production and transport. HasAP did not, as standard, result from technological achievements, achievements in medicine, etc. Therefore, I do not accept the the thesis that, by 2003, health food was eaten in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, we have mechanisms of veterinary, sanitary, health, etc. Therefore, those who are in charge of monitoring the health of food. We also have authorized and accredited laboratories dealing with the analysis and monitoring of that food. Therefore, the introduction of HASAP is an additional standard, one improvement, but not by any means the thesis and the fact that due to HASAP, we will eat medically incorrect food. I think it should and should not be a good message for the public, so neither Croatians eat garbage nor our company products garbage but it is exclusively about better standards when it comes to HASAP and competitiveness when it comes to HasAP, because the introduction of HASAP gives these companies the chance to export and trade on an equal footing in the European Union market. So it's a standard that we certainly want to adopt, but it needs to be clearly realistic. As for this part for the extension of deadlines, I think I already said so, so the request is not the ministry and is not being introduced by the HasAP Ministry, but is being introduced by our business entities in the food business. So the request came from them. The introduction of HASAP requires huge investments, changes in construction, technology, personnel. Therefore, a whole series and set of elements to be laid down to make the HasAP system work. As far as the Food Act itself is concerned, I think the opening day is also the answer. We in addition to the Food Act go, the committee is formed, it works on this job and probably in the eleventh month that it will be here and directed to this House of Commons. Therefore, the comprehensive amendments to the Food Act are being made and a special part of the story is this hygiene package. Why didn't we let him in before? This was certainly related to the first part of the negotiations with the European Commission on screening and to all the additional information we have come up with and the fact is that during the analysis of the harmonisation of our legislation with the legislation of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73687	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73688	Dear Secretary of State, you can't go to the Parliament, but if you're saying it's completely incorrect that the government has passed an amendment and an addition to the law. But it's terrible that you as state minister say the government has passed an amendment and an addition to the law. Neither the regulation on amending and supplementing the law can be passed by the Government, it is clearer to you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament than to me. Here, it'll be modest so, you know it's not possible. So the government tried to do it, to amend the law without the authority of the Croatian Parliament given in the law and the opposite of the Constitution, and it cannot amend the law because its authorisation is restricted only for a year and the law has already resolved that deadline. And as soon as it ceases to act ex-legislatively, this Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its entry into force. If it is not clear to you, I am sorry, but it is not what I am sorry for but how it is for Croatian citizens in the legal system of such a Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73689	And another correction by the respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73690	I am correcting Mr. Secretary of State who is trying to convince us that there is no other solution and that this government regulation is to save companies. Mr. Secretary of State, the Government of the Republic of Croatia during these three years of adaptation should have helped these legal entities adapt because it is the only way to put them in an equal position with everyone else. I think we care about Croatia first of all so that as soon as we can train our economy to be but couples to those who come from abroad and this should be our priority, not the priority of postponing the law for three years. Because by delaying the application of this law, we do not actually solve the fundamental problems that Mr Pankretic listed. No implementing acts have been adopted either. We haven't passed the Food Law and we don't want to control the quality of food, or we could enter the reasons why we don't want to. Maybe that's why we're good for someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73691	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Report on a Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. I give the vote the following conclusion: A report on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 75 for, 2 abstentions, 5 against accepted suggested conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73694	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 and the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 are two of ours can say regular documents. So the plan for the next and report on the implementation of last year's plan. The annual implementation plan for the following year has been drawn up in cooperation with all holders of official statistics. All relevant institutions were also involved in the production through statistical advisory committees. And the Statistical Council also accepted the proposal at its session. The report on the implementation of the 2005 Annual Implementation Plan was also drawn up in cooperation with all holders of official statistics, so I can say that the planned objectives of the programme have been carried out in accordance with available resources, which means that all research has been carried out except for the exceptions listed in the reports. The Statistical Council also accepted that report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73695	Thank you. The Committee's report? Sent, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73696	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Jukic is indeed ahead of us a set of all possible numbers and analysis that we must have in one place so that we can work and make important decisions more analytically. This Annual Implementation Plan shall be adopted for each year for which the programme of statistical activities is adopted. Of course, the official statistics of the Republic of Croatia must at any time establish a degree of compliance with the requirements of the European Union and in the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. What needs to be highlighted in a series and a sea of these numbers certainly dismembered by all segments of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities is also a review of the total resources needed from the State budget so that it could indeed be done in order to carry out official statistics operations so that the State Statistics Office has the right to use administrative data sources and data collected by the monitoring method. Of course those most important parts analytically highlighted in terms of demographic and... statistics on the population, especially single out in those respects that bother us and in the labour market to collect and data on employees and salaries, and so that we can direct our future efforts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the Institute of Statistics has not only met the holders of official statistics with the requirements of the statistical office of the European Union Eurostat but also the general public, so it also organised and co-ordinated everything in the production of programming documents. As early as 2005, harmonisation of Croatian statistics was continued in line with European Union standards, and this has been achieved and made available through websites to improve. Here are detailed data on the number of employees who allow the time forecast to be up to all annual implementations of the Implementing Plans we have reason to read and analyze. What is especially to point out is that statistical and advisory committees from 15 different statistical areas were established, based on the Law on Official Statistics, the Statistical advice of the Republic of Croatia was established at the State Statistics Institute. This is an advisory and expert body that has contributed to ensuring the impact of users in the first respect of science and the general public on the programme of statistical activities. It is made up of representatives starting with the Croatian National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Parliament, the bodies of the state administration, and it should be pointed out in particular that all the offices of statistics are in all our counties that function as well as the bodies of the state administration. Therefore, important data that I think should be even more dismembered. What interests us in terms of financial decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia, regional gross domestic products that talk about regional public accounts. All in all, I would briefly conclude a huge effort in making these materials one sublimation and therefore thank the promoters and I believe that this will serve us for a number of content and responsible discussions in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73697	Thank you. For the SDP Club, a respected representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73698	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Yukic and his associates, it seems to me that these statistical reports, or state statistics, or plans, programmes and so on, are becoming increasingly routine. And it's just that there's a more and more permanent way to approach them, which is more and more like it, and I think that Croatian state statistics deserve more attention and a more thorough debate in the Assembly than is clearly going to be done here. And even Mr. Jukic said a few sentences that I didn't hear well. On top of that, that they wouldn't be, if it wasn't a routine approach, then certainly certain things should be problematicd in those reports. For example, in 2005 as far as I know and is listed only in the initial part of the report has been made a significant, quite significant reduction in the budget for these activities. And of course that led to the problem of carrying out the obligations and, of course, the pressure of other species which would be worth establishing and determining how much this was really a problem and whether, and on top of that, work could have been done, etc. And let's just start with these superficial things. I don't think it's right for the head of the State Statistics Office to be the performer and that the State Statistics in Croatia needs a director. Because when there's the first man who has his own project, who does a certain mandate, then it's easier, then it's better, then it's a more serious approach than if he's, if the job is done by a man who can be the most qualified, but he's named as a performer of duty, etc. All of this in a constant way speaks of the area. I would normally like to say that Croatian State Statistics is worthy of many commendations. The truth in Croatia is much and invested not only in equipment but also in people who are standing in the area. But on top of that, we in Croatia have individuals who are worthy of recognition, whose results of research and work in statistics are very important. I want to point out that before the '90s. In the year, I remember from college, the State Statistics Institute and Croatian Statistics had excellent cooperation with the European Union. And even more predicated in this region in many such things. We believe that there will be more and more conditions that will allow for even more success in this regard to continue to be done. We will support these reports in the SDP, but we would like to warn about how much statistics are more important than what it looks like. There's nothing serious we can do in the state today without serious statistics. Anyone who does any professional work, scientific, responsible, has to measure something politically. For him, it measures statistics and a large number of people who are hard at work. Therefore, from the point of view of such a significance of statistics, we from the club would emphasize several elements in particular. The first is certainly the reality of the statement of statistics. We are facing constant problems here, given that they occur in time, that the mass phenomena that are being measured and that the question of reality is sometimes questionable from the point of view that already in the next period, things are changing. For example, today when measuring the cost of living these baskets for living standards, etc. We have a higher number of measurements. Even unions then to make it more up-to-date and more realistic then they measure in their own way all together. Let's just say, we think it would be worth it if in some committee or perhaps in this statistical advice that's been made now, which I welcome, you would consider all of this together and you would make a unique system of this measurement, and not every minute someone with their own measurement of anything, and in doing so, the reality of this measurement would be greater. Secondly, of course we stress the question of timeliness. Our statistics are largely doing everything that can be timely. But we often set ourselves deadlines, no one in Belgrade does that anymore, which is not good. We've been since college I remember our statistics were faster than Slovenian, not than former Yugoslav and most qualitative statistics in this area and any delays of this kind are not good. But look, the question of timeliness is serious. For example, on top of all the techniques, on top of all the software and hardware you today are going to have to carry out a more subtle analysis of wages compared to employees by structure, qualification and other ways for 2005 you will have to wait in February 2007. And now the question of how much more of that analysis means enough, how relevant enough it is for an economic policy that must make certain moves based on it. So we appeal and feel that even more needs to be done in relation to timeliness. Thirdly, we believe that statistics in their own way must be an entirely independent observator that is almost at some space height, monitoring what is happening and faithfully registering it. The problem, therefore, is the need for statistics to be independent, professionally independent but without any political pressure. I think our practice, however, was that certain pressures on statistics on the moment at which some data would be published at a certain point in time. Because there's a more favourable, unfavourable moment for someone, especially who's in power, etc. Statistics must persist firmly and firmly on their independence, professional independence and in any respect of burden. And the third important moment we would point out is next. The cooperation between our statistics and the European Union is long and successful we can say. However, the European Union imposes its schemes on us, and on statistics. And she makes it uncompromising and it's normal. We accept these schemes and basically successfully adopt them. However, we must not ignore our specificities and our special fixed needs in a statistical way. So we must not become some kind of replica of some kind of European statistics, but at the same time develop what we need. For example. We should need much better data than that, compared to the bases for regional policy-making. Today, I have determined, our government is not able as the highest body to determine the extent of the GEP's increase in development between individual regions, and it is increasing. Furthermore, the question is how can we determine by the territorial principle the social gross product at all. Look, according to statistics, now it turns out that half of the social gross product, if not more in Zagreb, is not true. Because there's a lot of things that actually happen here that are economic, economical in a number of other areas. In this way, without such an aspect, it is very difficult to see the regional structure, and it is therefore difficult to lead any policy. We would especially warn that some important data such as the dynamics of economic growth in their final statement are also being given with a lot of delays. We, as I recall only this year 2006, received final data and even a correction was made and it was a sensitive correction of the economic growth rate for 2002 and 2003. Watch out for economic growth data for 2002, which was four years ago and in 2003 was significantly corrected, during this year and the growth rate differed by more than 1%. It wasn't 4.3, it was 5.6, or it wasn't 4.3. Pardon me. It was 5.3. It's a drastic, dramatic difference. It's billions, and we got that correction after three or four years. Even this data that you're counting on the budget deficit to be 6.3 should have taken new statistics because that account doesn't even stand on that basis. Therefore, with the support of the great effort that this is achieved with everything that exists in Croatia in terms of statistics and merits attention, we would, in particular, advocate this independence and greater speed and a constant additional coherence that would lead both to both timeliness and greater reality, which would be particularly important for the government and economic policy management. We'll support the reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73699	Thank you. For the club HNS, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73700	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start at the end, so first I'd like to say something about the very proposal for the 2007 Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activity Programme, because we have reached a certain conclusion on the Committee on Gender Equality and I'm sorry that there is no president or vice president here to explain this request. I was hoping that in the opening statement Mr. Jukic would state whether this proposal from the Committee on Gender Equality was accepted or not, which refers to some of the things that I have already been here twice in the same material or similar to this material asked to be inserted into the plan of statistical activities, which is that there is a record of domestic violence and violence against children, violence against women, because we know that these data are usually conducted in the police, law enforcement, health care, and nowhere is it divided, and we have no data in fact about how much violence in the family. We received a promise, in fact we unanimously concluded that we asked you to in the following year, so in 2007, make a classification in which way and who should report to you and bring those reports together, means to make statistics on domestic violence. I hope that in your next remarks you will answer me if you have complied with this request. And now I would move on to just the report on the implementation of the annual statistical implementation plan, and I would only stay there for one part and that part concerning Croatia when entering the European Union, and these are statistical regions. It all started with the introduction of a nomenclature of spatial units for statistics, etc. NEUC. We started this in November 2003 and Eurostat accepted the proposal of spatial units for first-level statistics. Actually, let me explain. The first level means what our country itself is, the second level is something to translate, simplify the region and the third level is what our municipalities or the way these municipalities are going to join in certain statistical regions. You started a project in time with a project The State Statistics Institute made in November 2003 a project nomenclature of spatial units for statistics and then the proposal went towards Croatia being divided into five statistical regions. At that time, it was rejected by the European Union because it was said to be too large and not to satisfy a certain condition, and that is 800 thousand to 3 million to 3 million people as much as it should be in one region of level 2, meaning... two and then you came and produced Eurostat on 25 January 2005 for the opinion of the new draft proposal containing four statistical regions of the second level and you write it nicely in this report: Since the new draft proposal met the population criteria, Eurostat agreed with the new draft proposal and immediately declared it final in April 2005. And you're still saying, the State Statistics Institute on the entire body of events, as well as Eurostat's final decision, informed the resolution ministries. Great! That's where you claimed it was done by the profession, and then, at that point, it's probably political interference, and then politics says what the profession did is wrong. So you do all the things you've done, all these analyses, everything you've done that's wrong, and then we're going to make a new statistical division and divide it into three regions. Then in this division Europe tells us nicely that at that time we shared Zagreb so Adriatic and Continental Croatia, the City of Zagreb especially then tells us that the City of Zagreb does not meet these conditions because it has 20,000 inhabitants less and then we give up and now we come with a proposal from two statistical regions. So we're starting at five and then we're at four and then we're at three, and now we're at two. I expect we'll get to one soon. And we in Slavonia wonder what it brings to us? This brings us to a region where our five and one's 50 is 27 and a half and a great one. Beautiful. Or to clarify that, Slavonia, which has 30% of the average GDP, Europe is breaking in with Zagreb, which is 68 and that means great. We're at 50% and it's beautiful. But gentlemen, this means to us in Slavonia that we will be able to withdraw far less funds because first, in this situation where we are brought, in which we are deliberately neglected, I say deliberately neglected, isolated, where all the funds did not come to Slavonia, where we do not have the infrastructure that in reality and can pull anything out of these funds, we will continue to stop because everyone else who has the infrastructure that is willing to pull it. Is the policy goal of withdrawing some kind of limit? This is how Virovitica – Karlobag is dragged. I claim that it is not and must not be because in this way Slavonia is put back in the ghetto because she will not be able to respect what should be respected. If we know that it is estimated that we should receive annually from the European Union between 4 billion and 8 billion kuna a year, normally those between 4 and 8 billion kunas will annually withdraw those who are ready, who have the infrastructure, who can withdraw it. Where's the Vukovar in the whole story? Where is Suhopolje, where is Voćin, where are the places in Slavonia? But gentlemen, the same thing happens in Dalmatia, the exact same thing. We have developed north and poor south. It's exactly the same. Is it an interest to divide Slavonia into 2 parts or more precisely, to divide it officially into 2 parts and actually divide it into 4 parts? Two rich and two poor. I didn't go to Glavas at the time while we were fighting for the regionalization of Croatia Mr. Glavas was in HDZ and he was fat against the regionalisation of Croatia, so we understand each other. Look at his interviews at the time when he was in HDZ. And Mr. Kramarić can also testify. The time when Mr. Petar Stroub was in Slovenia then he proposed that Slovenia build 3 regions. And we know that Slovenia is a state that can practically cross over to the car reserve. They were suggested to build 3 regions with, on condition, but we're spread differently. At the time, he proposed that Slovenia build 3 regions so that they could extract as much funds as possible. They may also be analysts when they say that in a situation where we make 2 regions we will surely withdraw more money from the European Union because we will be with places like Zagreb ready to withdraw more money from the European Union. But what does that mean to us in Slavonia? Nothing, gentlemen, an even bigger me. Because Zagreb will soon reach that 75% of Europe's GDP, and we will remain on our 38th. That doesn't mean anything to us in Slavonia, and I beg you, don't neglect your profession and don't continue, because here in the classification you say nicely. Classification is a special type of language that allows the display of statistics in a unique way. The main objective of such a way of working is to create classifications that will show the real state of the national economies. This reminds me, this sentence that you really want statistics to be the exact sum of accurate data, not the exact sum of incorrect data. So don't let anyone else plant over the waist and spit all of your work you've invested in this very quality, to narrow Croatia down for now to 2 regions, then to 1 region. Then we round the ring around Zagreb, and the rest of you get along. Well, let's not let that happen. Let's think about the rest of Croatia. It is not only Croatia that some wanted to be Croatia. Croatia knows it from where and then we also take care of our areas that are agricultural. You know that in these areas where you say in Gunja, out of the 5,000 300 inhabitants 300 people are employed. What kind of budget can they have? How can they develop? No way without the help of the central state, no way. Because they'll never have a budget that will allow them to do anything in their place because it's a agricultural end. There's nothing to fill the budget from. And so please, don't let the profession spit out politics and have another shame, so I think this is a shame, too, just because we came from 5 to 2. Five, four, three, two, so let's go bargain. What you've done, it's good, we keep four regions and we fight for that statistics to bear fruit, i.e. that as much money as we can withdraw from the European Union we can withdraw and as much quality as we can invest it for the development of this Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73701	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73702	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Vice President. Well, here are a few words about the Report and the implementation of the Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia. Since we have brought together the debate then and the proposal for the 2007 annual implementation plan of the Republic of Croatia. I must say, at first, I did not understand Mr. Yukic well. If I'm not mistaken, in his brief report, don't mind me, where he's extremely modest, he almost wanted to pass through here undetected, but I think he made a mistake here. I think it should have been very loud, very demanding because I think that understanding statistics is not only now but the overall understanding of statistics in our country is wrong. Wrongly for reasons that I have witnessed myself for reasons that are unfortunately still repeated, statistics are classified as something on the side, something that is important to list, but it's not particularly important, so we're going to do it. When there's no money in the budget let's take 200, 300 million in statistics, whatever all 10, 15, 17 of some projects, programs, all of it can be, it doesn't have to be direct, we can do it polling, we can do it anyway. Wrongly dear gentlemen, it's very wrong because it's going to cost us a lot. Why am I saying that to cost you so much? Because the statistics on that segment where you're going to let me say that I know something, and that's agriculture, that's a terrible cost. Not the gentlemen we're so quick to negotiate with, not the gentlemen we're in such a hurry to listen to some stories about how we're a developed agricultural state, how we have this and what or what, or what we're like, we don't know 60, 70 thousand acres of vineyards, like we've got production, plant production like this, like we have a cow as much, but they'll tell us gentlemen give us our statistics, let's take two, three years of reference so let's see what's in it, let's define some things now. And what are we going to give them? In plant production, I'm afraid we're not going to have anything to give them, because if I'm not wrong for two years, I'm almost sure that we're not working on family farms, we've done some research, to be sure about it I don't know, I wouldn't put my hand in the fire for that data. We say that we will establish at least here I will read you some of the goals that you have written, that I would not speak wrongly, so from the proposal for a strategy to develop official statistics in the Republic of 2004 twelve: The main objective of agriculture statistics is to provide quality, reliable, internationally harmonised data necessary for the needs of agrarian policy, environmental protection measures and the planning and implementation of sustainable development policies at regional and national level. This is why, as already stated on the basis of the data collected from the 2003 agricultural list, a register of agricultural holdings will be established in 2004. The question is, where are we now? What did we do? Is there any of that? Or, for example, we are, and I will read to you what you wrote to the European Union for the answers they gave you. Here's one thing: I don't bother you very much, and you know it well, and neither do my dear colleagues and colleagues. Agriculture statistics are one of the priority statistics in the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. The importance of agricultural statistics is already seen in the number of regulations represented in Eurostat, you know an extremely large number, a very significant area. It covers different areas, plant production, livestock, forestry, fishing, agro-monetary statistics, environmental protection. Ensuring quality, reliable and internationally harmonised data is necessary for the needs of agrarian policy, planning and implementation of sustainable development policies at regional and national level. The Register of Agricultural Economics will be introduced. It will be adopted and introduced in the application of the typeology of agricultural property. One of the important objectives is the establishment and development of a national system of agro-monetary statistics consistent with the requirements of the European Union, especially in the area of prices, economic accounts in agriculture and forestry. I wouldn't keep listing all this stuff. I think it's very clear and definitely that unfortunately very little has been done of it. I won't blame you here in statistics, I believe you're doing your best, if you don't, then accept my criticism, but I don't think the part we're ignoring in this part is good. Then we'll be able to talk about how bad we went in certain segments because we didn't get a milk quota, we didn't get a quota for this or that production, we didn't agree on this and that. It's going to be the negotiators, it's going to be the current government that negotiated at the time, and in fact we've all been irresponsible in terms of here's the most basic thing called statistics. So here's why I'm taking this opportunity when we talk about this report, when we're talking about assignments. It wouldn't be correct of me to list all of these, to implement these plans, all of these research because I don't know how many colleagues and colleagues will follow that part, and you know much better what you could, and what you couldn't do, what you did and what you didn't, but that here I am appealing primarily sincerely and I'm glad that the Deputy Prime Minister here, I don't know if she was on this issue, but I believe that at least partially she heard what I was saying, it wasn't even... If she was writing down Mr. President, it is my special pleasure then, I believe that it will be heard somewhere in the government, but we can be unserious on this subject, we can accept it this way and that way, I sincerely warn you, if such reports will be statistical, if the tasks are to be carried out like this, we are ill-written in negotiations with the European Union in the field of agriculture. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73703	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73704	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. I would correct the inaccuracies of counterpart Pankretić where he claimed that plant production on family economies is not taking place and that it is not there. This is absolutely incorrect because only in our county is plant production as regards the production of chamomile has gone so far as to massage on family economies and it is an alternative for corn and wheat and it is a good income for our family economies and is thus presented and is all export product to the countries of the European Union. Therefore, I do not think that incorrect claims should be used as regards plant production which grows from day to day and is an alternative to those classical and permanent products.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73705	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73706	Mr. President. A respected colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure because he wasn't correcting what I said, he was correcting what I didn't say, and you noticed. I know he may be stronger in some other topics, but in agriculture and statistics let him leave because I didn't say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73707	I didn't notice it, I couldn't even say it... And it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić, please welcome on behalf of the HSLS club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73708	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed statistics are a hell of a thing. Too bad there are no colleagues from Shemse Tankovic who are here among us certainly the biggest expert on this subject, but here I don't know if that's why he's going in these afternoons, but my God, my Parliament has to run and every time is equally important. Statistically in this House some speak eight hundred times, some speak much less, then probably somewhere on some statistical average it's polite to take it like this, but just as we are each responsible for those of our own actions. I would like to begin by saying that the HSLS Club will also support one and this report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan and will support the 2007 Proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan. The fellow Church has also said here at the beginning very clearly in the importance of this statistics and indeed a pity, this is one small remark to fellow government colleagues that some shortness does not have to be a virtue and that indeed this rather extensive report still deserves a little broader elaborate. What I'm trying to say here on behalf of the club is that statistics are not neutral and that they are not free from politics and ideology. We know that and statistics can actually prove everything. The old one says that if you eat meat, and I eat cabbage to eat on average, or on a statistical average, we eat sarma, it's about that with some other indicators, and maybe some times statistics can prove that we live much better than we do. Also about the importance and ideological colour of statistics here I just remember the last census if I'm not mistaken we had in 2001, and I think that in 2003 we only actually got those official data, obviously that in those two years it felt like something with statistics was being solved and something wasn't quite right, so we had to do a little bit of thinking so that some of these ideological political messages could be something different than the cruel reality that statistics actually show us and that would surprise us quite. I also remember how the statistics made us uncomfortable, so we got the information that only 7% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia had higher education. I don't really have to tell you what's coming out of this statistical fact that all the political and insides of implications can get away because they actually work, they show some way and show that our situation in society is exactly what it is, that it's very hard to do and it can be better if you face such dangerous, or but cruel and true facts. But I would go back to what my colleague Kapraljevic was talking about, and I think it's immensely important. This whole story, if I'm not mistaken, has been going on since 2003, and we can't really figure out this concept of our statistical regions, which is an optimal number and what it should be. It was also a memory at the time of the five, six actually some thing we put a little bit under the carpet because it is obviously not a simple thing to decide whether Croatia will have three, four, five or two statistical regions. Those two little reminders remind me, that I know it might not be popular to say in that '41 division. For years, continental Adriatic and a little bit of that, a little bit more like this in German and for that Adriatic a little bit reminds me of another story. When we take how the banks came in, then it turns out that this story, even though statisticalally it doesn't seem to be really standing. What is really necessary and what this Parliament must initiate and what is exactly this, this Report and this Proposal for an annual implementation plan is to open that exactly and in the Parliament, this particular story, and not to some times just parliamentary representatives who are regionally sensitive and who still tell one story a little longer to really see what that means. If we don't have the strength to make a clear political decision in 2003, and obviously, and that's probably why we're losing something because we're probably not even pulling all those money that we could pull out of the European funds, then someone has to take that responsibility for why there are three, four, and how I see how things go along for some better times. This better time will not come, this political decision will be made by us, or Parliament, by this composition, by some other, but it is precisely an interest that we make and as soon as possible, with full awareness of what we lose and what we get. You also see that it is actually very difficult to explain some of our own as Croatia tells us, or what Croatia in tradition tells us that our development which Zagreb has never been in the history of Croatia was never Paris, mind as a sociologist told us about Paris that the mind, I think... the mind and heart of France. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Zagreb did not have this in Croatia's history. I don't get into whether it's good or not, it's just a story, but he never had that function. If that's what our history tells us, then it's just those rebel points that I see next to Zagreb in Split, Rijeka, Osijek, that are some facts that we must in some way and our political decisions here in Parliament and confirm. One of those... It's these statistical, regional statistical units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's four, five, but let's confirm them and we can defend them. I don't think that then I don't know any institution in any way can refuse because we have to deal with this exactly that statistical data. We go over it easily, so when we see that you actually have Zagreb on one side, so you have eventually Istria, and then there's another city and by which county that works both, and actually 15, 16 counties don't work at all, under each one, not really European, but actually Croatian minimum, that you really have Europe here in Croatia. Unfortunately, in too few cities, settlements, municipalities and counties. That's the problem, and that's the thing that really is, and I was just expecting today to go and that my colleagues will say something more about how far we've come and how ready it is that here one of the conclusions really is that this debate finally opens in Parliament and we see what it gets, what we get if we insisted we don't know about four or five of our statistical units. And that's what we're supposed to talk about, and then we'll always have this feeling that someone was regional at one time, and someone wasn't regionalist, so then for a time we were, we've been stimulating IDS, today we'd all be acting the way IDS is, and actually, what's always the worst poverty is used for political purposes. Here's enough, but once again I say we'll support that, too, so I'd suggest to the Parliament that a conclusion be made... in writing, to open up just as soon as possible before that debate and that even this Parliament, because I think we are wasting our time, to lose time, to bring what is optimal for the even development of the Republic of Croatia, or decentralisation, however you wish, but I don't think it will be able to go without it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73709	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73710	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I expected Mr. Jukic to come out and try to at least answer the first part of the questions concerning the conclusion of the Committee on Gender Equality, which is a matter of statistics on domestic violence, violence against children, violence against women. Since he's not coming out, then I've come forward for this debate and since he's not going out with his explanation and this number of regions, so I'm going to read how the State Statistics Institute said in 2002 in two regions. It's said like this. As an example, it can be taken the case that the data on the size of per captain bedepea is calculated only at the level of two units of nuc 2 continental Adriatic Croatia. Such data does not reveal much because each of these two units contains areas that differ significantly from each other to the degree of their development. In the Adriatic unit, the differences in development between Istria and Kvarner from one part to the south of Dalmatia on the other would be lost in indicators that would be counted for the entire unit. And the same as on the continent would be of little or no use to the development policyholder. To establish only two spatial units for nuc 2 levels, therefore, would have no benefit. This is something written by the State Statistics Institute and I wonder if you will go over this idea to bring Croatia down to two regions and tell yourself that you did not know how to do the job. I hope that you will not and that you will guard the cheek of the profession and make Croatia to be at least four regions, as you have always suggested. Let me just tell you about Slavonia what you wrote. The Slavonian Group of County is acceptable because it is an area of relatively homogeneous economic structure that also meets the physical and historical criteria. And you listed these differences here between the developed north and the undeveloped south. It is also in this continental and that Croatia. I would say that, if they eat sausage in one part of continental Croatia, we eat beans in Slavonia, then we eat beans together with sausage. And they down there, if those in the north are eating a brand and they're eating a blubber down there, then they've got a bran with a blubber. Well, let's not do that, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73711	They're drinking a brandy with a sausage, I guess. Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's gone. He's losing his word. Do you want to... I'm sorry, Jukic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah. V.D. Director of the State Statistics Office. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73712	Here I am glad that statistics have brought this much attention to the Croatian Parliament. I thank all the participants in the debate. As far as gender equality issues are concerned, I can say immediately that the first amendment can be accepted and the second cannot be accepted. The second, third and fourth amendments are actually research by the Croatian Institute of Public Health and they explained that they do not have the resources to implement this and that this will be settled by informing health care. That in many of their studies they receive aggregated data and gender separation is not possible at this time. As for the importance of statistics, it seems to me that, slowly and in public, there is an increasing awareness, perhaps because of the negotiations, perhaps because the entire state administration and others involved in the negotiation process see that there are no real negotiations without statistics. We're trying in our capabilities as hard as we can to do the best, the more, the more, the faster, the more. There are some things we can do. We are already sending a lot of data to EUROSTAT within the deadlines and in the quality they recognise that it is good, even better in some cases, even better than the Member States. As for the division of regional so-called The money classification was like you said a lot of attempts, a lot of different things. We tried to be there on, use the profession services so the latest proposals were made on the basis of studies of the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb and the Faculty of Economics in Split. Of course, we estimated that statistics probably don't have enough knowledge to do it on their own, but in the meantime they started negotiations and there was a group for regional policy negotiations and I don't know exactly what it's called, so there was more discussion there. ... Is that enough? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73713	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73714	I have two corrections to incorrect allegations. What you read first has nothing to do with the Committee on Gender Equality. He's got a lawyer for gender equality. ... That's not true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the other thing about this, you contacted the profession but after EUROSTAT said he agreed to it and declared it final in April 2005. Well, I don't know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73715	I'm closing the debate. Thank you. Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2007. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Gender Equality. Director of the State Statistics Office Darko Jukic. Here you go. Do you have it in front of you? Yes, you do. Okay. Amendment 1, with the implementation plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73717	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73718	It becomes an integral part of the proposal, of the plan. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73719	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73720	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73721	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73722	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73723	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73724	Give me a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73725	It is a research tasked by the Croatian Institute of Public Health and they informed us that they do not have the resources for such a thing. And it will be, it will be resolved by informing the health service.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73726	Please vote. Let's get on with it. The result? 11 for, 4 abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73727	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73728	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73729	It's the same explanation. So the Croatian Institute of Public Health does not have the resources to conduct such research. And... The problem will be solved by informing health services as before. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73730	Let's vote. Amendment 3 which the Government does not accept, or the Institute. We can vote. The result? 8 for, 6 abstentions, 68 against. He didn't win. 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73731	It's unacceptable. It's the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73732	Please vote. Who's in favor of Amendment 4 that the government doesn't accept? So please, somebody's not voting again. It didn't turn on again. All right. The result? Six for five abstentions, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Now I'm voting on the draft plan, please let's get involved. We can vote. The result? With 77 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed implementation plan was adopted. We have another conclusion of the Committee on Gender Equality: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the business of official statistics carried out by various authorised bodies of official statistics refers to violence committed, possibly domestic violence, or where, united by planned projects and research for 2007, for every violence. Tell me your point of view on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73733	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73734	Thank you. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 7 for, 4 abstentions, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. You're done. We're going to the next point. - Business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2005 in accordance with Article 8. The Law on the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War and members of their families The Management Board of the Fund submitted that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Prime Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and President of the Management Board of Mrs Jadranka Kosor will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73760	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I welcome you and here I am today in front of you on behalf of the Administrative Board of the Croatian Defence Fund as chairman of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund since, according to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and its Management Board, the Minister of Croatian Defence is in office and headed by the board of directors. So, in July of this year, the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund accepted a business report on a proposal from the Fund Management Society and is in front of you. Since this is a report submitted by the Management Board, I would remind you of who are members of the Administrative Board of the Croatian Defence Fund. These are primarily representatives of associations or representatives of Croatian defenders Mr. Dečak, Mr. Mercep, Posilović, Lovrić, representative of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Djakić, then representative of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr. Bračić, and as I said on behalf of the Croatian Defence Ministry, I am also the President of the Management Board. The business report, as you have seen, consists of an introductory part and an information prospectus. I will only briefly cross those most important steps that I hold most important in this business report but also steps that follow the establishment of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. I remind you that in March 2004, a constitutive session of the board of directors was held in the new assembly because, I also remind you, you know it well because it was done in this term necessary for the fund to really work to change the law that was passed in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament. We did so primarily on the insistence of experts, expert bodies, for example by the then Securities Commission, and others who pointed out that certain provisions are so set out in the law that they simply have to change because they are unsustainable. So, we amended the law and in July 2004, the Statute of the Croatian Defence Fund and the Rules on criteria for the selection of the property management company was adopted. In September 2004 we opened a tender for the selection of the Fund Management Society and in December 2004 the Management Board of the Fund decided on the selection of the Management Society, so on the basis of the invitations to tender and this has been Erste Invest d.o.o. Zagreb. The Management Board also adopted a proposal for criteria for the allocation of shares to the Croatian Defence Fund, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted at a session held on 15 December 2004 and accepted. In March 2005, a representative account of the Fund was opened at the Central Depositary Agency and a trust account at the HVB Splitska Banka. In April 2005, the number of fixed HT shares of 5 million 732 thousand 197 was transferred to the fund and then officially started working. So, in April of last 2005, when I repeat it, it was transposed under the Law on Privatisation or Privatisation of HT more than 5 million shares of HT. The value of HT shares was then estimated at a billion 242 million 740 thousand 306 kuna and 60 limes. Last July, it was also transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund and part of the HT dividend for 2004 amounting to 13 million 465 thousand 14 kuna and 53 June. In September of last year we also published the Register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. When I'm talking about a register that was, of course, one of the necessary and prerequisites for us to do all the work that we need to do and we're doing for the fund, so that we can establish a register, in order to publish it, we have to do an extremely difficult job that we need to do here, I repeat, in order to, of course, mark the shareholders but also so that we can calculate the share. I may just be here to take advantage of the occasion, so just point out some of the problems we've encountered in making a register and we're still meeting and we're still trying to remove, of course. For example, during the analysis, and this report also reported shortcomings in a number of fund members, i.e. exactly 21 thousand 491 persons, and these are different errors, from unique home numbers that were not actually there, the absence of a place of residence. I can always give an example that we have encountered a few names and names, so they are listed in the register where an unknown address, for example, without a number, was entered under the address. So that's what I'm saying just to get a complete picture of what kind of problems we're facing. Of course, the absence of place and residence, errors in calculating the day people spent in work, lack of working on the combat and non-combat sectors, etc. We're still doing one of those jobs today. Namely, you know that the Croatian Ministry of Defence, or the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and in making registers and all other affairs related to war routes or to the number of days, the years which are individual members of the Croatian Army at that time, or the Ministry of Interior, that it is related and that the references are exclusively to the data of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. So on 14 September last year, the Croatian Defence Office was published. Last November 16th last year, a 7% transfer of INA shares was made. 7% of INA shares means 700 thousand shares. I will also mention here what I said and at the meeting of the Committee on War Veterans the other day that neither according to the Privatisation Act nor under the INA Privatisation Act, the Government did not have a certain deadline within which those 7% of the INA shares were to be transferred and I think it was worth pointing out because the government felt that what belonged to Croatian defenders was necessary to their Fund as soon as possible from the establishment of the Fund and transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund. That 7% of INA shares were estimated at 740 million, 600 thousand kuna. In December of last year, the rest of the dividend for 2004 was transferred to the Fund of 114 million 661 thousand 554 kuna and 42 June, and on January 24, this year, a 50% dividend from the dividend for 2005 or more precisely and precisely 56 million 920 thousand 751 kuna and 24 June was transferred to the Fund. So after all that, the Fund had a value of more than two billion and 160 million kuna. I would also like to remind you that the 2005 Fund's profits amounted to $126.4 million. According to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War, profits are divided as follows: 1/3 is reinvested so 42 million, 42.13 more precisely. Then according to the Law, one third is paid to the Fund members and one third is to be spent on the social, development and humanitarian needs of Croatian defenders under the Law. So these are the provisions of the Fund Act. I want to remind all of you at least I'm sure you all know that because you've been discussing it relatively recently on two laws. One about the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders or children of Croatian defenders. And others of the treasure, therefore, the law of the treasure. They're all in effect. That the Management Board of the Fund made a decision in December last year that this 1/3 will be given to the Croatian Defence Fund, so in this case it is just more than 42 million kuna, so that 40% of the funds are invested in the Fund for the scholarship of so-called Croatian defenders and children and 60% in the foundation. In order for us to do all this, we of course had to prepare these two laws that you discussed, which were passed, which had already come into force, and the laws had already come to life. So we also set up the Management Boards of the Scholarship Fund and the Management Board of the Foundation, and in fact we started to work or rather, and the Scholarship Fund and the Foundation started to work. The fund belongs to the agreement 60% of the assets from and 1/3 of the profits, which is slightly more than 25 million kuna. At this point, of course, the most difficult part of the foundation work is being carried out, which is the establishment of clear, precise criteria which can be helped naturally by Croatian defenders from the Foundation. So these must be solid criteria beyond which no assistance can be granted in exceptional cases when nothing more can be done under the law or law of different but above all the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. In accordance with the Fund Act, I would also like to remind the Fund Management Company of the obligation to issue an information prospectus with information on the operations of the Fund or of the company by 31 December of the previous year by 31 March. That's for last year and done. I would also like to inform you that following the audits of Erste Invest's financial reports carried out by the auditory house, the audit report of 3 March 2006 for the period from 12 April to 31 December 2005 and the report of 17 March 2006 concluded on 31 December 2005 with a positive opinion on the Fund's financial report for those periods. On August 30th, when we prepared this report to the Croatian Parliament, so after the Management Board made its decision on August 30th, the Fund's assets amounted to two billion 162 million 257 thousand 122 kuna and 68 June. However, today we also had a session of the Management Board of the Fund, and according to the Company's asset management report, the value of the assets from that 30 August this year has increased to today. You know very well that this value is changing. And so today it is two billion 163 million 950 thousand 452 kuna. Here's the basics and basics from the business report. I am pleased to conclude that the parent committee, the Committee on War Veterans, has unanimously given its support to this report and I would like to say in the very end that I mentioned who all the members of the Administrative Committee who, by law, are under Article 8. The Fund Act shall submit a report directly to the Croatian Parliament. So the government only gives its opinion on this report, but the Management Board submits a direct report to you, and I think it's perfectly incorporated into the law. Since I'm about three-quarters of an hour or less, I'm gonna have to leave because of my prior commitments, which, of course, I'm sorry, but it's past my will. I would like to remind you that there is then a member of the Management Board of the Fund who submitted the report to you, Mr Djakic, who is your representative in the Management Board, so that he may eventually later answer any questions that will be asked in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73761	Thank you. The chairman of the War Veterans Committee, Honored Representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73762	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament held on 4 October this year at its 25th session, discussed the business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2005 which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and by members of their families by act of 17 July 2006. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body pursuant to Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which had no objection to the report in question. The sittings were attended by representatives of defenders' associations and victims from the Homeland War. The President of the Management Board of the Fund informed the members of the Committee and representatives of the associations of actions taken since the adoption of the Fund Act, which was established until the time of the official start of the Fund's work on 12 April 2005. These are the adoption of the Statutes of the Fund, the Regulation on criteria for the selection of the Fund management company, the opening of a representative account in the Central Depositary Agency, the trust and the monetary account and the assessment of the value of the shares of the Croatian Telecom and the INA. The basis of the competition was the selection of Erste Invest d.o.o., Zagreb, for the management company of the Fund as the most favourable bidder. The total value of the Fund’s assets on 31 December 2005 was 2 million, 2 billion and 109 million kuna, consisting of shares of the Croatian Telecom estimated at €242 million, and shares of the INA in estimated value of 740 million, cash deposits worth 114 million kuna, etc. In early January 2006, an advance on HT dividend was transferred to the Fund for 2003 with the foundation of ownership of 7% of shares, worth 56.9 million kuna. The Croatian Defence Register has seen shortcomings and mistakes that have been addressed in co-operation with the relevant ministries of the IORH and the MUP. Based on the register in April of this year, certificates of participation were sent to the Fund members, i.e. Croatian defenders and members of their families. According to the interpretation of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which has been requested by the Fund Management Company for the period of 3 years prescribed by a law in which the Fund members cannot dispose of their shares, starting from the date of official work of the Fund, which is 12 April 2005. The Committee members in their debate praised the report as transparent and exhaustive, and they are satisfied with the good start of the Fund's work, which best confirms the positive findings of the Audit, and knowing the skepticism that was present in the adoption of the Fund Act. The question has been raised on the possible re-send of certificates of participation in the Fund's members, taking into account the observations made to the applicable criteria for the allocation of shares in the Fund. The need for accommodation of defence financial institutions, the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families is highlighted, then the Fund for scholarships and trusts in one place and the right to buy first shares after the 3-year period, which would preserve the value of the Fund. It is also necessary to find a way for defenders who wish to donate their shares to either the scholarship fund, or the Croatian Defence Fund. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose the conclusion to the Croatian Assembly a business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73763	Thank you. HDZ club, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73764	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Minister and President of the Management Board of the Fund, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts and commends the business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families for 2005. The Business Report on the work of the Fund covers all the activities and jobs that have been done since the establishment of the meetings of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund held, as you heard, in March 2004. The first task of the Fund’s Management Board was to create a legislative and legal framework for the start of the Fund’s Management Board, given the existing Law on the Croatian Defence Fund adopted and adopted in October 2003 and did not adequately enable the Fund to work itself and it was necessary to access the amendments and amendments to the law. The amendments and additions to the representatives of the Association established by the Homeland War included representatives of the Securities Commission, the Privatisation Fund, and amendments to the technical and quality preparation and adopted as a law published in June 2004. In further activities, the Management Board of the Fund has joined the adoption of statutes, the Rules on criteria for the selection of the company, and the management of the Fund, and has joined the call for a public tender for the selection of the management company of the Fund. The Statute and the Regulation were published in July 2004 following the completion of the tendering period and the tenders received, and in accordance with the Statute and the Regulation on criteria for selecting the company with the presence of the public notary. In November 2004, a public opening was held with a detailed record and offered prices and guarantees for bidders and offers. At a session held in December 2004, the Management Board shall decide on the selection of the Fund management company and society chosen, as you have heard, Erste Invest d.o.o., Zagreb. Following such decisions, further steps are being taken. An agent account shall be opened at the Central Depositary Agency and the Trustary Account of the Fund at the Split Bank, i.e. The depositary bank of the Croatian Defence Fund. The core account of the Croatian Defence Fund in the depositary bank is open to all cash inflows. An assessment of the value of HT shares was made using the discount cash flow method. This method also recognised according to internationally recognised standards and best paints the position, i.e. the value of the company, i.e. companies taking into account future developments, but also the market on which the company operates. At the time of the company’s assessment, no financial reports were available for 2004 and no business plans for the following period. However, an assessment of these movements has been made and the basic assumptions taken into account also the growth of the telecommunications market, as well as the decline of the HT share in all areas in order to strengthen the existing and the arrival of new competition. Taking all the above assessments, i.e. Fair estimate, the price of one share of HT with all relevant indicators that could be used amounts to 216.8 kuna or the total value of HT shares transferred to the ownership of the fund is one billion and 242 million 760 thousand and 390 kuna and 60 June. 7% of these shares of HT were transferred to the trust's trust account and the fund started working. The transfer was made on 12 April 2005 and with this day and date officially begins with the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and on the day of the transfer, it is also entitled to a HT dividend for 2005 which totals 128 million 126 thousand 568 kuna and 95 June. An estimate of the value of 7% of the INA shares and their transfer to the trust's trust account has been made. The same method in the assessment was used this time and the same indicators were not available this time. In addition to all the estimates, there was a fair value of one share of INA, amounting to a thousand and fifty-eight kuna, which amounts to 740 million kuna to the total number of INA shares transferred. Today's portfolio of the Fund totals 2 billion 109 million 845 thousand 664 kuna and 97 June, and the structure of the assets of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families on 31 December is the following, as you could see from the report, and it consists of shares of HT of 242 million 760 thousand 309 kuna and 60 June, shares of INA of 740 million kuna of Croatia's bonded bond of 10 million 143 thousand, Croatian corporate bonds million and 268, armed deposits 114 thousand, 114 million and 500 thousand that transfer to government bonds that deposit and money from the demand of 910 thousand and the obligation of 397 thousand. In 2005, the fund's profit of 126 million and, 126,4 million kuna was achieved and, in accordance with the Fund Act, a third of profits were reinvested, i.e. It stays in the fund, that's the total value of 42 million and 130 thousand kuna. The second third will be paid to the fund members in proportion to their shares while the third third third will be used for the social development and humanitarian support of Croatian defenders in accordance with the decision of the Management Board of the Fund, which must be confirmed by the Government as well. In late September 2005, a register of Croatian defenders was delivered to the company. Immediately after the delivery of the register, the company made a detailed analysis of the data obtained, with the absences of a smaller number of members, and they relate to errors in the unique home number, errors in time spent in units or the absence of an exact address of the user's residence, i.e. Croatian defenders who exercise the right to participate in the fund. The deadline for objections to the resolutions which lasted until 30.6. but since one part of the Croatian defenders who noticed that the management company had not responded and did not object, the decision of the Fund Management Board extended that deadline since 30.8.2006 so that all of them could make their objections, corrections and aspirations and certificates that were not used, and by the error of the Ministry of Defence or Home Affairs, certain errors could be undermined so that they could be corrected. Therefore, society is also tasked with having to respond to everyone by the 30th year of the current year. In cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence is under way and clearing up and other shortcomings detected in the register so that all other members of the Croatian Defence Fund will receive certificates as soon as possible. During April 2006, certificates were sent to the addresses of most members, and what I say most of them amounted to an exact number of about 486 thousand certificates were sent or 96% of Croatian defenders received their certificates of participation in society. The fund management company is obliged to provide security, liquidity and an appropriate contribution to take the risk of investment. This Fund of Croatian defenders and members of their families is, by its nature, conservative with particular emphasis on the security and liquidity of the fund's assets, and all for the purpose of working as a conscientious shareholder and liquidity of the owners' assets exclusively in the interest of the owner of the stake in the fund. The questions that extend are also how the fund's management costs are accounted for. The basis for calculating the compensation makes the total value of the fund's assets reduced by the amount of all liabilities of the fund from the underlying investment. The fee shall be charged daily and shall be paid to the management company once a month. The management fee is 0.238% per year as specified in the public tender and offered by the fund management company. This management fee shall be paid to the depositary bank of the fund of 0,045% a year and from the management fee shall also be paid to all the costs of the management of the fund. I must point out that only the postman's fee per one notice of participation in the fund amounted to 2 kunas and 20 Junes or for all who received certificates of shares in the fund, the total value of only postage amounts to a million and 300 thousand kunas. Finally, I would like to point out that the audit that has been carried out and which is intended for the owners of the share with a specific view of the owners of the share is that, in their opinion, the shortened financial report and shown below are in line with all the relevant items, with the financial reports from which they are carried out. Therefore, it can be clearly said that the audit opinion is correct and that the fund and the fund management company worked immaculately. Once again, I would like to commend the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community this transparent display of the report on the work of the Fund and I want to continue with those problems that exist, which is a constant opposition and work of the commission, i.e. the work group that has come to an end and we believe that in the coming week we will also have a concrete decision on whether the share will change in the pursuit of already one part of the associations. Whether they will be evaluated by combat operations and the combat sector and whether our ministries are able to do so as soon as possible so that they have the overall value of all those involved in combat operations as well as those in the non-combat sector this year. We know they only have one point. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73765	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Josip Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73766	The edge of Pancic is my name.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73767	Hansel, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73768	Never mind. Mr Djakic says "The 2003 Law on the Croatian Defence Fund did not adequately enable the Fund to work". It's just not true. The Law of 2003 was passed with full participation from the current Minister of Finance, Mr Shuker. And I think he's fully responded to all these demands that are being asked of him today. So the amendments to the Law that followed in the spring of 2004 were primarily cosmetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73769	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73770	Your Honor, your Honor, Madam Vice President of the Government. Here, where do you start? Come on, let's get this out of the board of directors. The members are Mrs. Jadranka Kosor as president, Ivan... Member, Josip Djakić representative, Petar Lovrić member, Đuro Dečak, Ivan Posilović, Tomislav Mercep. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is interesting is that against some members means this Management Board is subject to certain judicial proceedings or is the Hague Court, I don't know, interested in some persons. The Management Board shall appoint and, clearly, resolve the Government. It's literally what this law says, and then the question is, what's the message of this, I don't know, board of directors? What is wanted by the appointment of certain members? And why question the intentions of the Fund to the persons on whom it is designated, I don't know, let's call it a court mortgage. But that's what I want to say first. We are now going to page 16 on the principles and investment strategy, and then it is said that the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families is by its nature conservative. The assets of the Fund under the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families are invested without limitation in debt securities issued by the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian National Bank and guaranteed by the Republic of Croatia up to 40% of the Fund's assets in the securities of the Member States of the European Union and other OECD Member States, up to 40% of the Fund's assets in deposits with financial institutions, but no more than 5% of the total assets of the Fund, up to 40% of the debt securities traded on the stock market or other regulated securities markets. So the Fund is conservative. It's probably best that you do. You can risk, clearly, always profiting from shares, but risking can be lost a lot. So step by step policy is certainly acceptable for this kind of fund. But why did I answer my word? This is page 4, I'll literally quote it. "The results of the assessment and the value of one share of INA of a thousand 175.5 kuna and here as well as the assessment of HT are taken into account the fact that INA shares are not listed on the stock market, no projections of future INA development (business plans) have been available and the value has been reduced by 10%, which gives the fair value of one share of a thousand 58 Croatian kunas. This gives the total value of the INA shares owned by the Fund of 740 million and 600 thousand Croatian kunas, based on the government's decision, etc., taken at that and that session." So the point is to the fair value of one share of a thousand and 58 kuna. That is, at the price of 7% of the INA of 740 million and 600 thousand kuna. Gentlemen, in the Fund, it's probably not your fault that the fair value of INA per share is estimated at a thousand and 58 kuna. However, it should be borne in mind that fair value is far more. If the fair value of the INA were for 7% of the shares of 740 million kuna, it would be simply a disaster as it was also not good to have 8% of Plive, meaning that control package, sold for 400 million kuna. If that's the fair value of INA, that 740 million kuna for 7% of INa, then that INA sale for that amount of one thousand 58 kuna per share, I dare say that it's almost equal to national treason, perhaps even worse, national shame. When there was a debate in Parliament about the order and dynamics of the privatisation of INA, and that was about 15 days ago, I mentioned that, I mean, we know that, we have nothing to mention. Those 25% plus 1 shares of INA sold in 2002, so that's what MOL paid $505 million. It turns out that today, in 2006, unlike that in 2002, the INA stock did not grow, i.e., that its value has dropped even in the meantime and slightly. It's simply not true, gentlemen. The truth is this, but it should be taken with the reserve. The government decided to sell it, so here's Mr. Polacec, then told us at the 10th month, the 10th month slowly slips away. I'm sure before 12, that won't be possible. So the government decided to sell 15% of INA. By the logic of this Fund, this package would then be worth no more than a humiliating billion and 500 million kuna. However, and that assessment should be taken with a reserve recently made by Mr Laslo Gesti, who was the head of MOL in INA, is now back home to Hungary. He said the INA's value has increased by at least 50% since they were here since 2002. The truth is that time, clearly, has done its part and that INA today is worth at least double, which is certainly not the merit of MOL but certainly other reasons. The price of oil went up, I don't know, they went further into Bosnia and Herzegovina's market, they found some new sources, etc. So if that's the case, INA's worth at least $4 billion or 15% of INA should be anywhere near $600 million. Six million dollars times five.8 is about three and a half billion kuna. But I also said that this gesture that is returning to Hungary in Budapest can be kind of subjective at Mola headquarters because Mol is certainly life-interested in INA, and therefore I hold that the minimum value of the Fund's package is 7% not 740 million kuna but about a billion 750 million kuna. Only by his judgment. Everything below that will be very, very modest. According to my information, the government accounts by selling 15% of INA to get at least $500 million times 5.8 that's somewhere around 3 billion kuna. I said that if they're worth twice what they're worth, they should be incomeing 3.5 billion kuna for that package in the government. Of course, it's a shame that in 2006, we're selling INA, but what we're going to do, this government is going to... Wait, what the ex did, the tragedy is that '90s. INA and Pliva didn't buy I don't know Mol, OMV, Octavis, Barr, etc., but today they're hunting companies and that's it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] HT where defenders have 7% we also sold in the good part. We've seen that the profit of the 2006 state budget is 30% higher, and why? Because the largest Croatian companies are, of course, foreign-owned or dominant-owned today, getting money out of their own, out of this country. True, this Fund has been from HT for 2005 as said by Mr Djakic and Ms. Minister, so the Fund has received 128 million kuna, but it also raises the question of how many millions of kuna are from such a company as HT drawn to Germany. And it's direct, not bypassed as maybe in a Shipsplete. We see that the Germans do not need a mediator, they only care about the man in whom they have 100% confidence, that is Mr. Mudrinic, who led the privatisation of HT as Croatian minister, i.e. as director of the company. I claim or advocate that the law prohibits the privatisation directors from staying at the helm of these companies. Why? Because you never know if this job works in the interests of foreigners or Croatian states, while I suppose they always work in their own interest which is not far from likely from the truth. Clearly, it should not even be suspected that they are working in their own interest. We've sold the banks, now we'll give the church Croatia insurance, I hope we don't want the Oilman, and we'll defend some peasant to sell... What did you say? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And we're going to defend some peasant to sell 500 square feet of a field I don't know. Yeah. About the registration of Croatian defenders, perhaps, at some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73771	The report on the work of the Fund is a debate, on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73772	Yes, and the Croatian Defence Register.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73773	Not about INA, CTU, this one or that one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73774	But no, this is about INA and HT shares, 7% of INA shares, 7% of HT shares, an estimate, fair values that are underrated by at least 50%, in what they can get on the market today. Yeah. I mean, it's not a simple joke, because here if you want me to, and what I'm worried about is these unreal estimates of the so-called fair value of INA, HT in the context of the clear tomorrow's sale of INA and HT, and I wouldn't want the defenders to serve again as a fig tree for a Buddha why they sell INAs or HT. They have to have something of that. It would not be good for the Croatian state to lose on this job, it would not be good for only intermediaries to profit from these jobs and what we will do next day simply, in which we will invest those shares at all. Of course, it could happen that those who make a decision on privatisation may also in some way not know what they are going around. Clearly, without money from INA, from HT, from Pliva, it's cca 8 to 9 billion kunas that are intended to be used in this year and next year's budget. It's gonna be hard to reconcile pensions, return the i.e. damage pensioners, go to elections, but the privatisation process of such large national companies as INA, such as HT, such as Pliva must not pull any tails. So, once again for the end, it is my assessment that this assessment of the value of one share of INA of one thousand seventy-five kunas, i.e. the assessment of the shares of HT where you show in those two hundred and some kunas is far, far from fair value and that the next day if those values are not corrected someone could actually damage the Republic of Croatia more than they may be, but that Croatia has been damaged by some privatisations from the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73775	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, this item of the agenda to remind you is called the Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families because there are no areas that can't be connected to any agenda point, if that's what we want. So let's say we can link it to America because the air travels from America to Croatia and perhaps vice versa. Well, then we can talk about America. Therefore, give discussion and do not engage in any other analysis because I will have to apply Article 210. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Now there is a correction to the incorrect allegations first, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73776	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will, in effect, correct an untasteful inconclusive quote by Mr Caine that some members of the Fund's Management Board have been filed or are being dealt with by the Hague prosecutor's office. This is absolutely incorrect, and I believe that in this House of Higher Educational Assessments such as this are not appropriate, that you yourself are calling and calling in newspaper articles individual members of the Management Board, and you have not become aware of the fact or have requested a possible confirmation of their innocence. It's actually degutant of you to perform in this High House against the members of the Board of Directors of the Fund, so we believe that when the government has appointed that all the checks of those members that have been proposed by defense associations have been carried out, i.e. from the coordination of associations arising from the Homeland War and none of them have been punished or led... of them, but I believe that whoever you're on will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Have understanding and submit against you, and against you now a plea for slander to clarify what it is about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73777	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73778	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting an incorrect allegation regarding Mr. Damir Cain's entire exposure to the estimated value of the INA. It is not about the estimated value of the INA market value but it is about the agreed estimated value for the fact that, on the basis of the overall assessment of salaries, the daily fee of this Invest Fund of Erst bank, and if that fee were to be marketable then there would be no 8 to 11 thousand kuna per day compensation but there would be 30 to 40 thousand kuna. That's the word. So let's not make this assessment, Polancec told us, and everyone said there's no real assessment, or there will be when we know the value of the shares of the INA, and what you're saying means that a day far more funds would be paid to this Erste Bank Fund, Invest Fund for this part. So don't mix it up. It's a big difference, and then with a speech like that, you only go to the heart of those who want to raise the price.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73779	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73780	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely an absolutely incorrect and ugly quote, which is that the shares of the Croatian Defence Fund could serve as a fig leaf in further privatisation really needs to be corrected because there really is not much taste here, but I must note that it is true that the IDS has served as a fig leaf in the coalition government for the sale of management rights in large houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73781	Thank you very much. Let's move on, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSP, Mr. Representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go. Have you changed? And how could you change that then? Come on, come on, it's okay. Here you go. SDP club, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. If this replacement has been approved by the President of the Parliament, I must accept such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73782	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately there is no one from the Government, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73783	I'm sorry, this isn't where the government filed any reports, it's the Fund Management Board. Therefore, there is a member of the Management Board, Josip Djakic, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73784	How much longer you'll interrupt me without me saying one sentence. At first, let me say it. ... I must say, I prefer it when Mr. President of the Parliament sits here rather than you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excellent. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have to say on behalf of the club that only the report on the work of the fund has been properly made and that should be practice and future. There must be no doubt that the money of Croatian defenders should not be used without purpose as it was in the 1990s, let us remember that famous homeland fund from which the money was drawn in favour of some and some Croatian tycoons. I am convinced that it will not because it cannot be the case with this because the 2003 law, which was confirmed by the amendments to the law in 2004 and established by the Management Board, which should disable such one action. I am sorry that these topics no longer enter the Croatian Parliament's morning work as it was the custom in the first year of our mandate and this government, and the last ten points we are discussing in the late afternoon or evening hours of this issue concerning Croatian defenders, and I believe that Croatian defenders would like to hear the information, quality information they could hear today from both the Deputy Prime Minister and the member of Mr Djakic's Management Board. These are truly good information neutrally intrinsically and so should and should be as I believe that members of the opposition can be extremely well-intentioned all with a view to making this Fund work even more successful and quality, so that my exposure is in this direction, too, there is no need to be doubt at all. In this report, the value of these 2,160 and several million kunas is the current value of shares, i.e. shares. This value, just to remind you, would be higher by about 300 or 400 million if the total amount of HT dividend had been entered, here we discussed, which is why we did not agree here, opposition, SDP, HNS and other parties represented the view that this dividend should be transferred from the moment of the adoption of the HT Privatisation Act, i.e. INA, while the majority and government, and part of the associations agreed to the point of view that dividend belongs to the Fund only from the moment of the establishment of the Fund. That's the difference I believe today between us, just to say that the value would have been about 2.4 billion or 2 and a half billion if the entire dividend had entered the fund. What the representatives of the Management Board also spoke of more openly is what the Vice-President of the Government stated more openly, which are some of the open issues in front of this Fund. It's a matter of registers, it's a matter of calculation criteria and it's a matter of deadlines where we're slowly late. Don't deny me what I'm saying because it's all been published in the papers, because it's been said or by the members of the Fund Management Society, and then they've been denied by the Ministry itself, or by certain members of the board of directors, and then they've been denied by someone else again. But there's a problem anyway, and it needs to be solved. Here we could hear that he would be resolved. Well, let me get this under control. It's a question meaning a register that isn't complete. We have currently reached some 489 thousand Croatian defenders, some information from the association says the figure is even bigger. We could read that the task force has made some kind of a new division between the combat sector and the non-combat sector where the disproportionate balance between the non-combat sector is now being corrected in favour of the combat sector, but then it is being denied by the ministry. So it would be good to hear the real information where we left off with that register in some normal time. Second. These are the criteria for calculating the share in the fund. To say that the existing criteria have caused a storm of dissatisfaction by the Croatian defenders themselves, so that it has joined us, we could also hear a working group forming here. If she's going to come out with a report next week, I hope we'll see that too, but in any case, it's not good when there's a ping-pong transfer of responsibility between the associations and the government who brought those existing criteria that especially go in favour of the non-combat sector, or at least in '92, '93, '94, and '95. year for the very Croatian defenders who were on the battlefield. In any case, no matter who participated in the creation of these criteria, the responsibility is clear to the Government because the government established those criteria at its meeting. But good. In any event, the working group should propose or confirm existing or propose new criteria that the Government will have to adopt again. Clearly, political responsibility is always on the government. The government is always guilty whether it committed HDZ, SDP or some third party. What we could also read in the paper, and we're talking about what can be seen in the media, because there's no real information, and these are these complaints and objections to some 15 thousand such complaints about the calculation. These are different aspects of the dissatisfaction of Croatian defenders who have not begun to resolve themselves to this day. That's what happened a few days ago. I don't know, something may have changed in the meantime, but here we've heard that the deadline for resolving these objections is 30.11. So we still have about a month and 20 days to solve not a thousand and 500, but 15 thousand demands. It is said that the law provides for the transfer of shares to be carried out at least after 3 years from Croatian defenders from their transfer to the fund, and I remind you that it has already been a year and a half. Our sleeves are running slowly. That may not even be so noticeable, but I'm afraid the fund will come into the seal in time. And clearly, the privatisation of all those other companies that have been announced that there is no speech at this point. Clearly, along with these delays, it is also late to adopt the statutes of the foundation. As we know, two foundations have been formed related to this fund, the Croatian Defence Foundation and the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders. So there's no statutes yet. They need to be registered. And clearly we need to get a rulebook on their work. So I'm asking here how we're going to grant scholarships to the children of Croatian defenders for this school year when we don't even have statutes, we don't even have regulations, and I'm afraid this school year for children of Croatian defenders is lost? No matter what it may be denied. But it's just like that. You need to draw the line behind what's been done, which isn't done right, try to fix it and move on. So to conclude, it may be a surprise for some SDP club to support this report but it warns of some mistakes made as well as those that will arise from previous decisions and all with a view to trying to correct it, all in the interest of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73785	Thank you. There's one correction. Mr. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73786	Mr. Vice President. In fact, it's an incorrect assumption that I don't list all those who were incorrect, this last one that two foundations were formed. As Mr Pancic as former Croatian Defence Minister, you should at least follow this topic, so you should know that the Foundation and the Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund were established. And these are the two institutions that are established and that will use 1/3 of the funds. One 60 and the other 40% of this third so that the social and other problems of Croatian defenders can be reconciled. In fact, it is incorrect that money was spent in the past without legal frameworks. I have one solution with me from the court that, just you, has deprived your colleague Kalinic of the right to disability and that verdict is today, Mr Kalinic is today... with the means that you took away from him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was without the legal framework. Subtraction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73787	Thank you. Let's move on. HSP representative club, Mr. Representative Vlado Jukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73788	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I can say that the Croatian party club will support the Report on the Croatian Defence Fund for the reasons that it is well-designed and, of course, for the reasons that it is acceptable for us as a club in its content. But let us, however, comment on the content of the report. What is important and important to stress is that this is the first Report on the Croatian Defence Fund, that this fund has been there for more than a year and that it is certainly very interesting and important to see how this newspaper and it is about the Croatian Defence Fund, something very valuable and important for all Croatian defenders, as things are now standing, how the fund works. As we can see from the reports, we can say that more or less things are just as we expected. Of course, when we talk about the course of events, then we should remember some promises of the day here in the Croatian Parliament and so on. a hodogram of events agreed here and promised another 6th, 4th June 2004 when we adopted amendments and additions to the Fund Act. All deadlines for planned actions related to the fund were then established and promised by representatives of the then government who were to implement this by the end of December 2004. As we can see from the reports, some parts of these shops have not been done today and as we know, we are already at the end of 2006. This is not good because waiting so long for all actions related to the functioning of the Croatian Defence Fund are not in themselves good for Croatian defenders on the one hand and, on the other hand, unnecessarily creating an impression in part of Croatian defenders that someone, I will not tell whom, does not care so much about their interests and, of course, there are objections and thoughts about the fact that in this hodogram, in some way, this hodogram adapts to the election year, pre-election activities and everything they certainly shouldn't and would not want to be related to the concept of the rights of Croatian defenders. When it comes to content itself, we can say that what has been made of quality under the observation that some things are very late. Late register of Croatian defenders for a year and a few days, for which there is no special reason. Of course, there are excuses. When we talk about the percentages, we know well, we have talked here many times in the Croatian Parliament about what the situation with the list of voters is, so when we compare with some indicators of the situation in our society then we can say that 96% of the problems solved in the register, it means accurate data for Croatian defenders very high percentage and that part of the people who have not been solved and are not yet that big but certainly every Croatian defender has to get their right, so far there are several of them, so that it is in public through the media presented in a very wrong way, and once again there is the impression that Croatian defenders do not have that position in society that they should definitely have. So, I have observations on the hodogram, and I suggest that this job be completed as soon as possible before the end of this year, and then, of course, I and my colleagues will believe that there was no thought of any pre-election tactics related to this issue. The question of an evaluation of the value of the fund is the same question that I hold very important. What I would like to say to this occasion is that it has been the subject of debate both in our party and in the Committee on War Veterans and in various forums because it is one of the key issues related to the purpose of the existence of the Fund. What I want to point out here, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues of Kajin, the one who advocates an assessment of the higher value of HT and INA shares in this fund, in fact advocates the interests of Erste Invest society, which, based on its right to collect a fee of 0230%, would very much like that assessment which is now 2 billion 200 to be double or triple higher because it would mean that every month two, three times more money would come into the pig's bank and they charge as we know the management of the fund. And it was one of the great reluctances of the trust board and I believe this assessment is solid. It is smaller, it also acknowledges Erste Invest and director of the management company, but they obviously had to agree to a lower assessment in order to get the job, despite the competition, because it is a significant asset. As you know, according to the newspaper, we have headlines, in some newspapers 8 thousand kuna, 10,000 kuna per day is given from the Croatian Defence Fund. So it should be said that we are for the public, for our sake, that some average price for fund management is 0.5%. It's not small money. Here, as we know, got a job by whoever offered 0238, that's a solid offer low. Of course, the smaller the fee, the more it remains, the less it is paid and the more money remains for the Croatian defenders themselves. And so let's not raise the issue of a higher assessment in a closed fund. When the shares of the fund are on the stock market then let the actual value be shown. God forbid it's three or four times that, it's definitely gonna be bigger than it is in these estimates. But while this is the form of the fund and while this fee is paid daily in the interest of Croatian defenders is also a fund and it is clearly recognised by the board that this assessment is as small as possible to pay the management company less than the fund's funding, because that 0238 is still significant money, it is a few million kunas and they do not have much work to do. It's a dividend issue. I'm sorry to hear about you, my predecessors said, that I must inform you that yesterday the HVIDRA city of Zagreb filed a constitutional suit on HT dividends. As you know, I have asked the government several questions on this issue, my colleague Pancic has, we have had a debate here on this issue, there have also been committees of attempts at credible interpretation, but all this has not produced any positive results and unfortunately I have to report because I am informed that the HVIDRA of the city of Zagreb has filed a constitutional suit. I am convinced as I have been through all the debates and questions that this lawsuit will be resolved in favour of Croatian defenders and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have to return the money that has gone to the Croatian Defence Fund instead of to the state budget. Of course, the government has called for its interpretation of the law but then the question of the credibility of the government's position which says that it takes care of Croatian defenders sometimes through its own capabilities and asks, on the other hand, for legal opportunities not to pay the dividend to the fund but to leave it in the state budget. It's about over 100 million kunas and unfortunately living were so they saw when the Constitutional Court passed the acquis that, I hope it will be very soon, how they will feel all those who have said that the shares set out for the transfer and their dividends do not belong to the fund but to the state budget. If there was an opportunity to interpret the law and it was logical, at least that's how I keep it in HSP, that the government make a move in favour of Croatian defenders, and that means in favour of the fund and that these dividends are sent to the fund and that all these reluctances are over. Unfortunately, now it'll be in court and we'll see how things work out. As far as the assessment is concerned, I'd just like to warn you that there's a huge disproportionateity. This is one of the first cases where such evaluations have been made. There is a huge disproportionateness in the assessment of INA, it is very realistic in view of these all indicators, however, in the assessment of HT and 7% of HT dividends there is a huge disproportionate between the price for which several years ago HT was sold compared to the estimate of this value and the decrease. That disproportionate is too big. And I am again opening the question of whether we will ever be in Croatia and whether we will experience myself as a twelve-year-old parliamentary representative, whether I will live to retire or see this famous contract on the privatisation of HT, so let's see for what money and why he sold shares of Croatian Telekom at a time when he had a monopoly legal in advance of five years. A much lower price has been achieved than this minimum estimate. There's a real question of opening that story with HT shares. And what was most interested in both the defenders and the public and the damage, and unfortunately the defenders are not sufficiently informed, the education of Croatian defenders on this matter is very important, I propose and appeal to the Fund's board of directors to launch a more significant process of education of Croatian defenders on the Fund and the Fund's shares. There are many doubts, here we have today had opportunities, I have had opportunities to talk to several defenders who are thinking about buying cars, apartments or some real estate from the Fund's shares. It is amazing how unreally high expectations are in a material sense from shares of the Croatian Defence Fund. Why? For the simple reason that no one has ever dared, at least in an estimated sense in terms of size, tell Croatian defenders that this is not about tens of thousands of euros but about much, much smaller amounts and that they should not expect from the Croatian Defence Fund that it will solve whether today, in future, it will be able to solve some of its life-like, existential problems with these shares. That's what they need to be told publicly and clearly, and that's the Fund's Management Board so they don't get disappointed when the stock goes out on the market and they realize that those shares they were expecting are worth about 10, 20, or maybe 25,000 kuna. It is necessary to act openly and honestly and tell the Croatian defenders that they are not hoping for any amounts which in life will not know how much materially it will help them but that it is big money but it is a lot of defenders that the Croatian state symbolically separates from them as part of the compensation for what they did for the Croatian state. And that is why I propose and appeal that in some way education be conducted by Croatian defenders, so if a million are spent to send the notice, let another 200 thousand be spent to send them information about what is stockholdership? What can be expected? Well, for the most part, we are, which is why we were all in favour of banning the sale of shares for three years, but we have to look for ways not to allow, even after the deadline, to rush the market out of shares of shares to offend them and to again benefit from Croatian defenders because the market is that way. Partly this can also be influenced by the timely education of Croatian defenders. Explaining what the stock is? How do these things work? And what they should do in their interest, which means they don't sell shares when they have the right to share shares, and I mean here on the shares of the Fund, the Croatian Defence Fund. I believe that this education and information, and through means of public communication, has to be much more active in order to avoid the doubts that we face daily with Croatian defenders for the simple reason that they are simply not well, well informed. What I leave open as an open question is a question, as you know, which is the basis of the Croatian defenders' register, was announced and should have, reportedly already been printed to Croatian defenders whose right to do so was to exercise their right. I appeal that for those whose cards have already been made, and I know that there exist to them, which are not disputed meanings which fall within these 96% to be instructed by these cards as soon as possible. There is no reason for any delay so that people can have the document that belongs to them as participants, the Fund's participants, because the defenders themselves will for the first time receive a document card which will be able to show and prove their status as Croatian defenders not only as a share of the Fund but also as a general status of Croatian defenders and are very interested, most defenders are interested in obtaining, obtaining and obtaining these defence cards as soon as possible. As regards financial indicators, since the audit has given its high quality opinion, that we have been referred to the full procedure related to the financing and financing of this Fund, the audit is positive. The board of directors accepted the report. There was no dispute at any of the forums so far, and that means at the board meetings. There is no reason not to support this report and wish both to all and to Croatian defenders that in the next report the figures that speak of the Fund's portfolio are at least double, triple bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73789	Thank you. There is one correction, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73790	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting the incorrect and absolutely incorrect allegations and suspicion of my colleague Jukic where he claimed that he... Croatian, Croatian Defence Fund adapts to the election year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's absolutely incorrect. The Fund has its difficulties with the register, and they stem from keeping records of participation in the Homeland War as units that were on the ground and offices and defence administrations that did not do their job or were eventually planted so that it would not be registered on an up-to-date basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73791	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Ledinski please be my guest. Excuse me, Mr. Jukic has been injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73792	Just one sentence. My colleague Djakic did not correct my incorrect allegations but corrected my opinion. And I'm going to use this opportunity to deliver a phonogram of the meeting of 4.6.2004, which shows the statement of Madam Vice President of the Government, Mrs. Kosor exactly the deadlines when what will be done? He's been promised in this House, so I'm going to give him some time to see that he's not my opinion but he's based on facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73793	Well, I usually tolerate as you know what's not a correction, but it's not even mentioned in the Rules of Procedure, so let's get over it. Here you go, Mr. Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73794	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me say a few words on behalf of the HSS Club about the first business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The HSS Club will support this report, which is the first of its kind mainly because the concern of the Croatian Defence Fund must be transparent and clear because Croatian defenders and members of their families are the most responsible for our country today. That is why it is necessary to regularly submit reports to the Croatian Parliament for adoption and discussion. In my opinion, the Fund should be independent of any kind of day-to-day policy and in particular of its representatives and I agree that it should certainly be a representative of the Government who would be the most responsible person primarily in the post of Deputy Prime Minister. But in the future, I would like that when we get those reports that they are not at the Ministry's memorandum but the Fund to be one of its independent institutions and to have its own memorandum and to act as such towards the outside. I think it's normal to expect in the future, and I'm saying I don't mind being a realtor. He's supposed to be the government's representatives, though. And in that part here I think it would be good for the future and then the Fund thus shows one of its transparent work and that in it those who decide do not depend on anyone but are primarily responsible to those members, to their defenders who have come and come out of the register. So here's when I'm talking about the register, so let me say the same thing, and as a defender, it bothers me that there's still 21 thousand 491 incorrect data in the register, which is really a large number for me. I'm not going in who's to blame, why isn't it, whether it's a home number or something. I know I personally got home data, even though I was changing the address of the apartment and it came to a new address. And I think someone should have taken care of that we have accurate data and that not after 15 years of the war or I don't know 12 years from the end of the war operation or 11 we don't know exactly who was in the fighting sector, who in the non-combating this earlier, a fellow representative Djapic also spoke about it. So that part would be good if we knew the exact information about it. Since this is the first report and since the adoption of amendments and the addition of the 2004 law, here are two years, we have listed six items in the report, which are related in that section, that certain accounts have been opened in certain banks. I have to say I'd like to work if there was a trust fund in the Depository Bank owned by our state, as far as I know, there's only one, not another. That's especially what I think would be good. But I'm not saying, the Fund's business policy is the business policy of those boards that determine where it's going to be. Also the total value, so the portfolio is a total of 2.16 billion, which is quite a significant portfolio. This dividend that is expected, which I must say, that defenders expect a lot, is now still on one small percentage, although I believe that this fund chosen by me is quite a high-quality fund. I believe that in the coming years, he will contribute to making that dividend significantly bigger, which is the whole of the Fund's goal, right. So in that part, I think it's a good idea for her to be as big as possible and for this Fund to get more significant assets from year to year. Since part, a third of that property remains in the Fund, and a third is shared by those members, I don't know when that first third will be divided, although this is a relatively small amount, since we don't have the exact data yet. And this third that's being allocated to development and humanitarian and social needs would be good if we could get now and some of the criteria by which it would be. I think that would be good for the future. I know this may not have been possible the first time. So we can also have indicators of what and how and how our defenders will be able to achieve some of these funds. Because it's, like, 42 million this year, next year it's going to be a lot more. And it's good to have that information as such. I also believe that the future investment strategy is well assessed and that compared to the conditions which will be that it will be as such and will be realised and that these revenues will be not 126 million as much as they are but I say in the coming years probably far higher. And in that part, I believe that when these revenues are and achieves a certain amount that the defenders expect them to do, they will also justify their existence as the Fund and as an obligation to members, defenders and members of their families. Here, in short, I would like to conclude with a desire for the Fund to have more significant revenues in the coming years, and so would our defenders. The HSS Club will support this report, along with these remarks that I said in that section that in future we expect the Fund to continue as an independent legal person to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73795	Thank you. At 17.48, it was time for a ten-minute debate. HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73796	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This report, the Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their family for 2005, I think it is very correct and fair written and that this report itself if our discussion only comes down to this report in order to last a minute, two. However, we are all trying to look back on the accompanying problems that follow this report and which, possibly behind this report, will be on the agenda. On the Defence Committee, I took advantage of the crowd, so I asked the Director of the Fund and our Deputy Prime Minister when we will be able to donate our stakes, and I am also correcting my colleague, Yukic, not the shares, but the stakes, which is why we cannot have with them for 3 years, which was made in the interest of, indeed, the interest of the defender. And I have to take this opportunity that Mr. Cain, our colleague, did not correctly discuss this Fund because this Fund is the first time I think and one of the few points that has been adopted by consensus in this House, that the two Governments have participated in it, the two convocations of the Parliament, and as far as the Supervisory Board and everything is agreed on by the two Governments and two Assemblys, and I don't think it's correct to discuss the way and the people who are in this Fund in this way. And that's why I resent my colleagues Kajin. I think this is one of the opportunities when the entire Croatian Parliament simply all colleagues and colleagues, regardless of opposition or power, want to contribute to the work of this Fund, on how to take care of defenders, etc. If we had a problem, we do. We've got problems. Here, that's what this report says. That due to incorrect addresses, some defenders did not receive a record of their share, the number of shares, etc. I think it's less technical problems, that it's not the Fund's fault. It's probably some technique in defense offices or I don't know where, so that's a warning. We ask that it be clearly and finally resolved once, I think it's time 11 years after the war to finally put it into computers, to make one order at that, and that more to such situations really shouldn't come. I would further like to point out, as far as I am concerned, from this pay phone last time in my presentation, I said that I would be able to give my share of the Foundation for the Education of the Children of Defence, and then I asked the Director of the Fund, who was also the Deputy Prime Minister, who told me that in three years when we could have these interests, that I would then be able to carry out this act that I had promised, and the Deputy Prime Minister himself said that other people were interested who would give their shares to this foundation for the education of children of Croatian defenders. So I'm also taking this opportunity as I pointed out last time, that those who want to do it find out they'll be able to do it in three years, not now. As for the working group on the benchmarks. You know that from last year's discussion when they were about the criteria for points that I was very unhappy, not just me, a lot of associations, a lot of my colleagues and colleagues, we don't think it's fair, and we expect to say here again, not in this report, but also in this report. So I'm using the crowd to remind myself that we should finally get the opinion of that task force to try as correctly as possible and as honestly as we can to make the score especially for this wartime part of the defender and those who have been behind as they say, yes. I think that's the part that we all expect, the Croatian defenders in particular, and we just want to remind ourselves that these are problems that we haven't solved, and we expect their solution, and normally we expect it to be done in a way that at least most defenders are satisfied. And I'd still like to remind you. The agreement was in some continuity and other Croatian companies in the predominantly state-owned interest of 7% of these companies, so that at least in some way they might know about when Croatian defenders and this fund will be able to dispose of these funds, so that it doesn't only come down to this, that we have from these two companies that we got 7% and that in the future we don't think about it anymore. And when we made a decision on the fund, there were talks about 7 to 10 companies owned, mostly state-owned. So the defenders expect us to at least know a little about when that part of the procedure will go. God forbid the value is as great as possible for this fund to be true and a foundation, and I have to remind you of the spring that even on the War Veterans Committee, we rushed some things so that, as during the summer, we could make a clear criterion and as soon as possible for the Foundation for the School of Children of Croatian Defence. I also asked the committee to sort of ask the Minister of Resorna who is also the chairman of the Executive Board, to try to do so as soon as possible, normally not in three days and three weeks, that we must have clear criteria. However, on this issue so far, we have not had a public debate in associations or in public, so I fear it is already too late for this year, and believe me, there are many children of Croatian defenders who are not part of disability and pensions, etc. They've gone into no childcare and care in this country, and they're in grave danger and they don't have the possibility of normal life and schooling. I have a question about such families, and it's usually about kids where their parents are, i.e. The father died after the war or died or the disease and now he didn't, his family didn't exercise any rights and those children are really on edge, I won't say misery but at the edge of existence and where it would be a great help, let's say, this foundation that we imagined for such children, a third gain, to help these children. So I appeal, I say, it's not about the debate specifically on this document, that we should deal with this trust as soon as possible so that it will function as much as we have finally achieved this fund and create this fund. I don't think there is a club in this House that will vote against this report, so the Croatian People's Party club will support this report. We think it's done correctly. So I just want to point out some things that I'd like to be glad that maybe they're getting a little bit faster and a little bit more correct and hopefully it's not a boycott, no intention of shutting things down and keeping things. I think it is simply an inert of things that in the Croatian state is quite slow in all spheres as well as in this part. So I want to believe that for the benefit of all the defenders and this report, I will not speak of numbers or mentions, all my colleagues have said before. So you're listening, you've got it in front of you. They're numbers that say their own. We will support this report, and I hope that every year and year to come we will receive a report as correctly as this and that we will be able to discuss it in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73797	Thank you. Dear representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73798	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and MPs. The report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and the members of their families that we are discussing today is related to 2005 and I can immediately conclude that the report is very detailed and extensively explained about everything that has been done so far. That, since my colleague Djakic, in the name of the club, pointed out everything that had been done in the previous period in order for the Croatian Defence Fund to function the way the defenders and we expect it to work, so I would shorten my debate tonight, but I will point out, however, that the Croatian Defence Fund has done well with the work. That the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund is a good law, that it is well implemented, and I am particularly pleased that the findings of the audits are positive. And that means that the Fund is doing well, for the benefit and safety of all defenders. And I fully support the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73799	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73800	Thank you, Mr. President. So I can certainly say that I support this report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund as I supported and set up the Fund itself. We see that it's a fund that has one asset of 2 billion and 109 million kuna and that, as the Deputy Prime Minister said, that already now, that value has grown to 2 billion and 163 million kuna since 31 December, which we can certainly be satisfied with. We see that the 2005 Fund's profits amounted to $126.4 million, and I think it's really good to have this kind of profit allocated, to reinvest one-third, so, 42 million, to pay off, one-third to the Fund's members by the share they're participating in and that part is used for social, development and humanitarian needs as we've heard again. It means that about 25 million will be used even for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders. I think for that kind of money you can really make a significant move here. It is also evident that the Fund means valuable shares, such as HT shares, INA shares, and that these HT shares have already been delivered for 2004 worth 114 million kuna dividends. Of course this is all to express satisfaction and praise. But I would like to point out here that this is, in fact, and to refer to some other issues that have previously been settled for our defenders, as is the lowest pension under the Law on Croatian Defence, which is very important and often, and is in fact very rarely mentioned. Because I was alone in a situation where I'm spoken to by defenders who are now in a difficult material situation, but at least here, when they're 60 or 65 years old, they're going to have a pension if they haven't earned it on other grounds, and that's 45% of the average net salary as well as an old pension that's now going to be more than 10 to 30% of the addiction they've been involved in defending their country. Then, an extended deadline for post-traumatic stress disorder, which is here, I have continued requests from Croatian defenders to resolve their questions in this regard. Then, employment and everything else that has already been done, which actually shows that this category, a sensitive part of our society, is being driven by a comprehensive and continuous concern. I would only like to say here, we see that there is a register of defenders, Croatian defenders, and that there is now a figure of 486 thousand. I don't think that figure is final yet because we have one of our brigades, 131st in County where we have volunteers who haven't yet achieved their rights and right now we're trying to solve this issue. I remember and I was a participant of these events in County when it all happened, when they were buying for their bullets and when they were happy if they could find and expect something, here and I hope that their question will be resolved. She would certainly commend Croatian defenders' associations here, and there are more in Zupanja who really care about everything. Unfortunately, however, here we are, surprised, unpleasantly surprised by the grief and suicide of Croatian defenders, and besides all the concerns we have, means despite the Fund and despite all these measures that I have cited, even greater care is needed, but not just the ministries but at all levels of local self-government and the entire community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73801	Thank you. On behalf of the Fund's Management Board, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73802	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'm just going to briefly explain some of the things that go through this debate. In fact, I would like to put really out of every thought that the Fund's board of directors does not do their activities properly, but adapts it to the election year. In fact, I'm going to make a difference once more that it can't stand and it doesn't stand anywhere because really great effort with the many problems that have been accumulated for years, and we know that 10 years after the Homeland War, we didn't have a register of Croatian defenders, we didn't have complete documentation on everyone who went through the MUP, who went through the MORH, who were in the fighting sector, who were in the non-combat sector, who were disabled, who were volunteers. Legislative provisions have changed, and the records and parent books of the unit as well as the breakdowns that have been conducted over the past years to find out the exact truth of where they participated and when they were in which units, can only now be complete. And what's said about what the criteria are and how they should be changed. Yes, the task force has been working on it and I will introduce you only to the details because today the board of directors has also discussed the new criteria proposed by the working group and they agree that the fighting sector is experiencing a boost in values and points. And in 3 categories for the fighting sector with the addition that those who are involved in military-related actions and combat actions by order from the level of the operational zone, for... The period, the day of participation in combat operations, is worth 3 points. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the satisfaction of those who were in individual combat operations in 92, 93, when there was also a truce, but certain activities were carried out to be, this is the most important part of the special police and tactical forces that at certain times, even though they had to participate actively in certain operations with a truce. In fact, this will change if it is possible through the Ministry of Defence as well as through the Ministry of the Interior to obtain legal information for how many days and how many people were engaged by order on a given ground. This is again another extra and big job waiting for us but because of the satisfaction and satisfaction of all those who have expressed their dissatisfaction, I think we have a duty to make that effort. When it comes to the foundation of Croatian defenders and its statutes as well as the Rules of Procedure are still given to small dorado and the second week will be brought in so that they can be applied, and, for the purpose of the Foundation, it is said that the purpose of the Foundation is to accomplish, the purpose of the Foundation... Do you understand me? ... Nice to meet you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The purpose of this Foundation, which is formed and legally defined, is to provide and provide financial assistance for the life insurance of Croatian defenders, to provide financial assistance for the heavily vulnerable families of Croatian defenders and members of their families, to provide financial assistance for the health care and treatment of severely ill Croatian defenders and members of their family's ropes, as well as to provide financial assistance after the death of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Provide financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their family's rope to acquire first profession, requalification, prequalification in the system of extraordinary education or attending training courses for certain professions. Provide financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their family's rope employment and self-employment. Provide other types of financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their families who achieve the purpose of the Foundation. However, during the discussion of the Foundation and the Croatian Defence Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders as well as children of Croatian defenders, it was clearly and unequivocally talked about and there will be more to this and there will certainly be used criteria that speak of some kind of property censorship of Croatian defenders and members of their families who should not cross from nine hundred ninety-five kuna per member of the family. At that time, this Croatian defender could receive some assistance through this Consensual Purpose as well as through this Scholarship Fund. I can still say that a lot of work to get all of us to agree, so that most of us will be satisfied even though we know that individuals will always be dissatisfied, but if most, 95% of Croatian defenders through these forms, through this Fund, through this Foundation and through this scholarship fund will be pleased with us and we will all be satisfied together because their existence and future will be guaranteed. Here, so much about the Fund, and I believe that next week, the Statute and Rules of Procedure on the Foundation are already being adopted, as well as on the Fund for Scholarships and Rules, as well as new criteria that will be applied to the evaluation of the combat and non-combat sectors. To the satisfaction of all those users, I can say that as long as the register is defined by a date, which is given to all Croatian defenders to respond to their complaints, only then can it be attached to draw up cards to members of the Croatian Defence Fund with the values of the shares they own and deliver to home addresses, there is no possibility of making cards until the complete job is completed. And what I'm trying to say is that by 12.4.2008 it's time until they can't share, and when they can alienate the right and priority in the purchase of the stake has the Croatian Defence Fund, within 24 hours they have to respond or with a positive answer that they want to buy those shares or that they can sell to third parties on the free market. I want to say that everything is defined through the legal frameworks and that no one can experience the fate of that Croatian Homeland Fund because we have not yet cleared up with it the governments that were before or the Government of Ivica Racan, nor has anyone taken any action or action against any deviations from the legal frameworks, but today I am still fighting with the members of the HVIDRA presidency to solve the problem that has arisen and has been towards those who have joined and who have invested their stakes in the Croatian Homeland Fund. This Fund is transparent, clear and all legal provisions secured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73803	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this point. Business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2005. I am voting on the following conclusion: A Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please vote. The result? Unanimity with 82 votes accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73806	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable MPs. From May I am the new president of the National Council for Higher Education by your decision and I am giving the 2005 Work Report, which is precisely 14 December 2004 until 31 December 2005. One small note – during that period was Professor Antonija Dulcic, who resigned, but I was a member so that I could discuss all relevant questions that you ask answers. This cut of a year has been deliberately said "cut" because the bolognaisation process thanks to the legal framework that this Parliament has already brought before us and one is in front of us, a huge educational reform is under way at the level of higher education, which in the period 2005 as regards the National Council has carried out a huge task. The task of estimating, setting up, applying all provisions stemming from the Law on Higher Education, that is, the Law on Science and Higher Education. I would like to point out that during that period, the National Council has brought close to 830 what opinions have made what is recommended and important influencing and regulating this sphere and helped as much as possible to make the bolognaisation process in the best possible context. You must know that bolognaisation, or the Bologna Process, is a framework that Croatia has accepted, but that framework itself will not be only one year or two, but it will be a process that will be before us and I would dare say several years. In addition to the National Council, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which, according to its legal norms, is the Agency that helps, or it is the logistics of both national councils, is one for science, and this one that I refer to is for higher education. Of course, in the formation of all bodies, there is always a child's disease and certainly it can be better, but as I say, I would say that the situation is currently in high education and in our academic community is a huge shift made in terms of adapting all possible projects, i.e. programmes and curriculas in the Bologna project, but certainly it will take a very, very large number of years and that there are also discrepancies, and the National Council is also trying to activate all resources from a huge number of residents that are needed in the work and in the good functioning of the National Council by comparing and combining all the positive ones I would say knowledge in Europe and in our nearby environment. If I were to evaluate the period not only of the National Council, I would say the situation in Croatia when it comes to higher education, it would be twofold. On the one hand, they should be very pleased, and on the other hand they should be dissatisfied. Satisfying that we are on time, I would say in time we catch a train of major reforms and adaptations to Bologna and that in many ways even though we are a step in transition countries, if not two steps ahead of them, and that's good. Of course, many of the institutions involved in these changes were not fully prepared to accept all these changes, and this is one process that obviously and lasts and will take a long time to change to the end, but I would say in more developed countries and everywhere where Bologna is applied there are certain problems, and these problems are obviously time-consumingly being resolved so that my report that I now submit to this distinguished House is just like that. It's a clip of a time in which the National Council carried out a huge task in which I think far surpassed even its possibilities because it worked very well in one period, I must say under the chairmanship of Professor Dulcic. One automation was also made, therefore the informational adjustment to the entire system and a large, large part of the cake evaluation of pre-graduate and graduate plans is behind us, now there is a specialist study and doctoral study ahead of us, and the National Council is parallel to all those issues that the law gives him in its jurisdiction. Here's why I wouldn't take too long. You got the report. In any case, the report has been made quite a bit I would say richly that it would also contain all documents for the future work of the national councils, so here are the dear MPs if you have any questions I am at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73807	Thank you. The government gave its opinion. A representative of the government has no intention of orally explaining it. I'm opening a debate. The Committee also has no intention of submitting an oral report. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73808	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, President of the National Council, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club discussed the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2005. This report concerns the first year of office, I would say to the National Council for Higher Education in this composition and, as the president said, covers the year 14 December 2004 to 14 December 2005. During this period, the National Council had to adopt a whole series of sublegal acts in order to fulfil its legal obligations within a year. At 34 sessions, the National Council did a really big job because it had to bear in mind how the report also stated the situation in higher education as well as the ability of all participants to engage in the process of transforming higher education. One of the most important jobs is the evaluation of pre-graduate and graduate university and professional study programmes, i.e. implementation of the Bologna principles. It is interesting that 104 higher schools work in Croatia, including independent departments at the university, 6 universities, 57 universities, 6 art schools, one school and 5 higher education schools, consisting of universities, 7 colleges, 8 universities and 18 higher schools. These figures are also important to understand the number of jobs the National Council met when it had to review around 900 university pre-graduate and graduate programmes and professional studies programmes, specialist professional studies. In addition to the technical problems encountered by the Council due to both jobs, the problem of interpreting legislation has also been met. A whole series of difficulties occurred when making an assessment of the conditions for conducting the studies. The basis of the Bologna principles puts a student at the centre of attention. For significant adaptation to Bologna standards, the required number of teaching staff has been identified by the report. The problem with the lack of frames is the focus of attention. The employment of scientific recruits over the last two years is a prerequisite for the requirement of university students, especially professional studies to create teaching staff. The Council also paid particular attention to the subject of teaching studies. Now we still have the inequality of teaching studies. It is certainly necessary to support the commitment of the National Council to carry out teaching studies at university level. On 17 March 2005, the Council also adopted principles and recommendations for the establishment of teaching and teaching studies in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the fate of the High School of Teachers in Petrinja and Čakovec is still uncertain, but the Council has made recommendations to these schools to implement the programme according to the Bologna principles for which the Minister of Science and issued a license, therefore students can freely and without any concern study at these universities under the same conditions as others. The work of the National Council has also been done by a number of data on the evaluation process of undergraduate and graduate university and professional studies. 788 reviewers in 860 recezent groups who wrote 1782 reviews and in the database, that's what the president was talking about and data were entered for 9,000 teachers and 33,000 colleges. It has been brought in, which has been the main and business of this council in the past year, 815 positive recommendations, 6 letters of expectations that it will fix its programmes and 7 refusals by the Minister of Science to issue passes. The National Council has initiated more discussions with the rectorial assembly aimed at establishing a fundamental concept of post-graduate studies. This is also one of the council's priority tasks in the future as well as the task of establishing a national quality assurance monitoring system. In order to achieve the quality and uniformity of the plan presented by the ministry in its 2005 development plan for the education and education system. – 2010 is to carry out an external evaluation of the quality of higher education programmes and institutions by 2010 with a comparative development of high school quality assurance units, which, in our opinion, the council must be engaged in this next period. Finally, the statistical and analytical representation of the state of higher education in the Republic of Croatia from which it is evident that there are still a thousand residents studying only 34 students in our country, as opposed to comparisons in Finland, one developed country where it is 58 as the council has presented it in this display. It is also interesting to know that as many as 50% of students are still studying social sciences with us. Only 23.8 technical sciences. Only 4% natural. Biotechnical 4.9% and biomedical 5.8%. It's a share of economics and social science rights 70%. In Finland 39. I am saying this and these are the data from which it is evident that the unfavourable relationship between university and professional studies is at risk and professional studies, lack of professional teaching staff, we must also change the registration policy that comes from these data and determine the strategic needs of Croatia. We still have a university study of 84 versus professional programs 54. We must also remind at this time of the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education that preceded this Council in the period from 24 April 2005 to 15 November, which we first discussed last year, which states that it is very difficult for the Council to give a full assessment of the situation in higher education, which would be documented by exact and objective indicators whether there are no data on programmes, on students, on study success, on teaching and scientific titles. This report shall contain valuable data which may be the basis for the monitoring and analysis of higher education. Finally, recognition should be given to the council, who in a year of independent action has seen the problems of higher education, started to record the situation and solve problems. It may seem a step by step to us, but it is a safe goal indeed set by the development of a system of education and education in 2005. 2010 as a strategic development document. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support this proposed and presented report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73809	For the HSS club, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73810	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, National Council President, colleagues and colleagues. So maybe before I say something on behalf of the Croatian Peasants' Party club about this report, just to remind us that we often get weight reports similar to this, but this is a systematically well-written report. Short, opening on page 20, all that matters and in additions and contributions who wants to read more in detail. And that's understandable because it's still about the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education. What I would like to say is that this report is certainly in many ways different from the previous one and is very likely to differ from several future ones. Of course, I'm talking about high school reform processes that happened very intensely last year. The Bologne process imposed first and foremost on all those who participated in the system of higher education very high criteria. We know that it is about adequate material space, material, spatial and humane conditions, as well as raising the quality and efficiency of teaching. Everything is facing the student and wants to create a system of measures and a security mechanism precisely that quality that will ensure that he is a student, as the report says at the centre of attention. We are not interested in the Croatian Peasant Party Club, and I will not talk much about other things that are related to this report by the National Council, however, to mention certain initial torments and objectively unpreparedness for the Bologna Process from an insufficient number of university teachers as well as scientific recruits who are also recorded and talked about and all the gatherings we are working in this system of higher education we know that the problems are really big. So this has also also been established by the National Council, finding that there have been a lot of proposings, 75 of them that have given up the proposed study programmes primarily because of the analysis that has shown the lack of human resources of the promoters so that they can carry out the proposed programmes in a good way. That problem isn't... The current situation can already be said that this is a problem that must be seen in the long term, given that the necessary personnel, especially here in higher education, cannot possibly be created from today to tomorrow or overnight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a long-term process and will have to be carefully dedicated and of course to the National Council but also to the Ministry of Staff to strengthen himself. As far as spatial problems are concerned, I have to say that there have been a lot of major and serious difficulties. Of course, this is not what the National Council is talking about in this report because it is not a problem to deal with. But do we want to accept such high criteria that we have put all together in the Bologna process system and in the points system that I don't say how it goes where it must, of course, teach for all enrolled students, where laboratory exercises on the computer system must be carried out by one student computer. It's easy to do as much as it takes. I come from the Faculty of Information, so I know that for 230 students I have three classes and exercises in 16 groups. These 16 groups of 15 students should be placed somewhere and there are, of course, other colleges that are also in a similar situation. And that is why as much resources should be allocated to the ministry in cooperation with universities and universities to ensure the need for this material assumption for all students. However, after this preliminary little review of the Bologna process, I would return to the most important work of the National Council last year, which is an evaluation of about 900 as well as you wrote the student programmes that 75 should withdraw, so about 830 student programmes from undergraduate, graduate and professional studies programme and specialist professional studies, which is indeed one extensive and large job that should have been done by some unique methodology, especially in conditions where another Agency for Science and Higher Education as a service of this National Council has not been teamed up, in fact only since the half of last year we can talk about the real work of the agency so that, as the report says, professional assistance and ministries have been used, and other people who should have helped with the work of the National Council. And with all these technical difficulties and certain inaccuracies in the law that are very well written here very briefly and concisely, many things have been made positive. Unique databases were created. He writes reviewers and rapporteurs, or an institution of higher education. Of course they've gone much further, today we're getting information about every student at any time, so the evaluation system itself is very different. But what's most important is the first time they've been valorized by this unique method and by an existing fit and by a study program. It's not a waste to repeat, even if every time it's about a thousand 613 study programs, it's about a thousand 782 reviews, 9 thousand teachers, 300 thousand colleges. These are certainly very valuable documents that will serve in further analysis and quality monitoring of work. And what seems to me to be one of the most significant positive things that we have received internationally reviewed programmes for internationally evaluated student programmes, regardless of what was more of our domestic reviewers but yet we have created the first assumption that we have internationally reviewed programmes. The report, however, makes it impossible to determine the quality of these student programs. This should not be written so much in my opinion, because it is assumed if the National Council accepts the programme that it has meets a certain quality. It would have been good if it had been written here, too. It is evident to us that this is the beginning of the process of improving the quality which is also indicated in the final consideration where the overall critical reference is given to the situation from the aspect of the application of science in the economy, i.e. the interaction between higher education institutions and society as a whole through the labour market and through political and other institutions that should take care of the strategy of economic and general social development, so that this final consideration actually gives us guidelines not only should be planned in some strategic projects but also about to see the role and science and higher education in the development of our economy. Therefore, this report speaks of the work of the National Council and not of the implementation of the Bologna Process where we could speak objectively about a specific or we could respond with certain critical tones but it is not a problem which is being processed in this report. I repeat, it is well structured, it was shown in this report that the work was very studioy and quality and that the results are seen in the end, and therefore the Croatian Peasant Party Club will also support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73811	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73812	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues! So it is a very important report because, as he said, as the council just said, and the minister reiterated the reform of our higher education is one of the biggest projects in the history of Croatian higher education and we know how important higher education is for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I'm not happy that this report is somehow on the sidelines of our attention, the public's attention. It is therefore a very important body and the process is even more important than only the body and I am afraid that in this way only by formal passing such important reports through the Croatian Parliament we will not achieve much. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this report because it is the first report, it is a parliamentary body which should therefore be one degree that will allow both professional autonomy and preservation of university autonomy and, nevertheless, the link between the policy defined by the Croatian Parliament and that is, for the first time, that such a body is thus formed to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly. And of course, in that first report, it's not possible not to steal some kind of indetermination, even though this report is actually much more relevant than the report of this second National Council of Science. Of course, this does not mean that we support the policy of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. We believe that the process, the Bologna process, has entered unprepared, stychically and that there are actually difficulties and problems that are almost difficult to predict how these problems are being solved in the first place. We know that the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports for this year has fallen in total share of the Republic of Croatia's budget. He's nominally increased. So it's increased in absolute amount, but in relative terms, that budget has fallen. Thus, the demanding tasks imposed by the Bologna Process are absolutely impossible to carry out under such circumstances without causing a terrible burden on all those involved. The basis of the Bologna Process is the reduction of educational groups, the presence continues and the monitoring of students' work requires: a number of teachers, a number of students, classrooms and cabinets, a number of libraries, books and magazines, higher material costs and higher teacher costs. And for all of this, for all of these increased costs, neither of them nor the third nor the fourth nor the fifth, we're practically making any assumptions. The material conditions of our colleges are more or less the same. Only in the first year, in 2001, 2002, in 2003 is it a very prominent reception of new people into the higher education system, and these young people are already able to take over some of the teaching burden today, but unfortunately this process was halted in 2004, so in 2005, we have the situation that the funds for new jobs in the higher education system are reduced by 51 million kuna to only 8 million kunas in approximately. And then this rebalancing is almost destroyed so that of those assets that should actually be the only thing we have right now because some big investment, some big achievements in terms of space we can't expect overnight. We need to build colleges, so we need to expand these spatial capacities. The only thing we have left. A powerful lever that we can influence was the reception of these young people, their education to take over most of the teaching process tomorrow, and that's where we stopped and stopped the process in 2004 and 2005. For 2006, this is not mentioned at all in the budget, talks about the implementation of the Bologna Process. Which means it's not really clear, but it's only 7 million kuna that absolutely can't be a drop in the sea to carry out such demanding tasks as, as is the implementation of the Bologna Process, so, of course, the Science Council didn't have much room for maneuvering. It can't affect that. What was his jurisdiction is what seemed to me to be very quality at least saying, it is a very important, important finding of the Council itself that the Council is not structured for the main business or is not, yes, so they say the Council is not structured for the tasks of super committees for hundreds of individual procedures. And that is exactly what the commission had to organise, monitor and ultimately make the final decision. And he's just saying that for that job, it's not structured by its composition. Of course, it's the engagement of these reviewers and so on, but it's one of the tasks that was most demanding and actually the commission for it wasn't equipped and I'm glad that's how well it was done. Where we are in this all very clearly shows this incomplete, as the comparison with Finland states. Finland is a country that has approximately the population of Croatia. There are twice as many students with our problem not in the number of students but in the number of students completed. About 60% of Croatian high school students attend college, but few of them end up in college. That's the problem. So if we were to compare that dimension. So the final result of that process would then be even more devastating. Then it would probably be 1:4 according to data that I'm not entirely sure Finland has 30% of highly educated citizens. And the Republic of Croatia, as you know, has 7%. The ratio is 1:4. To make things worse with us, they weigh the university studies. These are those studies that have no direct application. They're not directly related to manufacturing processes, what life requires. And in Finland, these studies are precisely equalized or dominated by university studies. Only these two figures speak in fact of what a serious and difficult situation we are in and therefore, of course, it is not good that we are so demanding in this process and I agree that this is one of the biggest projects in the history of Croatian higher education, we entered so unprepared. The Ministry of Science and Education has equipped the Centre for the Implementation of the Bologna Process, which is actually saying that the regular bodies and this body, but the other bodies within the Ministry were not enough and then the headquarters was formed. When you form a headquarters at the Ministry of Science and Technology and not at the Ministry of Defence then it is a sign that something is wrong there, that some processes have gotten out of control and that extraordinary bodies need to be formed. Here it is very nice to talk about that in Croatia there is no or weak relationship or interaction between higher education and society, social life, social needs of the labour market, and there is no strategy of economic and general social development that then actually makes it impossible to set goals. And if you have no goals, then you have no basis for estimating the results because you have not defined the goal that should be achieved. All of this, therefore, to all of our strategic principles, fundamental shortcomings as well as to practical difficulties, the lack of our law which then made it difficult for the commission to work on all this indicates this, this report and therefore this report should be accepted. The report speaks very clearly about the serious consequences of the system of higher education being done by adopting the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which allows you to enroll in the study depending on who your father is, what your father did to you. And that is something that is, therefore, in a system that is so burdened with such a system that is not capable of accomplishing the tasks set before it by the Bologna Process, 20% of students whose initial knowledge is lower than the average student knowledge that has led the entire system into an impossible situation and that National Council is very clear that it is the exact opposite of what we have declared throughout that time in our public, which is to achieve the highest European quality standards. Therefore, this problem should be solved as soon as possible because it came at the most awkward time, just when the capacities of our education system are extremely tense, we have introduced 20% more new students who are according to their initial knowledge, and this is the process of their admission under some average student in the Republic of Croatia. And that is one impossible problem that the National Council rightly warns about, and it would be good if we were able for the next school year, next November year, to solve that problem. So, I repeat, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this report. We believe that, since it is, in particular, the first report, and the problems facing the Council in its work, that it is a good report. And of course, unfortunately, such a positive passing assessment cannot give a total policy of implementation of the Bologna Process in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73813	Thank you. Final review, National Council President Frano Parac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73814	Your Honor, Mr. President. And just for a little while, I'd like to thank all the parties' clubs for saying the exhaustive references to this report. And certainly the National Council will consider everything said in this assembly. I'm referring to the National Council for all the things I've heard in this room right now, and it's very well taken care of, and it's familiar with all the elements. But I think this report is so exhaustive and so detailed, it's just saying everything. So somehow I'm assessing I'm giving you support as a whole you're giving us to continue on that path next year to improve the entire system that certainly has deficiencies, but I'm sure it'll be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73815	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Report on the work of the National Higher Education Council for 2005. I am giving the vote the conclusion: the said report is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 81 votes for and 2 abstentions, the reported report was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73818	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I would only remind myself of the fact that the National Council for Science is the most professional body which is concerned about the development and quality of the entire scientific activities and systems of science in the Republic of Croatia. And in one sentence, we can say that the National Council is a council that discusses issues of importance for scientific activity and proposes to adopt measures to improve it. The National Council at the beginning of its work, which is somewhere in December, 14th of December 2004, faced a huge amount of unsolved items. And so perhaps it can be made out of this report that, that the National Council was more concerned with technical matters. It had to solve simply the force of a bunch of objects and, by my assessment, I think now is the time for this one, this one to happen, and in the next period, that one to deal with strategic issues. I won't burden you with the numbers because you have them in the report, but I would say that so far 15 sessions of which 3 sessions have been held with, together with the National Council for Higher Education, which speaks of the interaction of the two councils. And a lot of what's already been said, I'm not going to say it again. A great job was in front of the Council. It had to be named 22 parent committees, 48 scientific fields, passed the Regulation on the evaluation of scientific organizations, that's something new in our scientific practice, so that's something I think is extremely useful. And of course adopt 23 statutes of scientific and public institutes. The National Council has been very actively involved in a broad academic debate on scientific technology policy. And what is interesting is that at its 13th session, the Council adopted long-term and short-term priorities for the development of science and technology by 2010. And what are the long-term priorities now? Basic research driven by the acquisition of new knowledge is our top priority. Then environmental protection and environmental management, the development of the karst area, the Adriatic Sea, the coast and islands. Agriculture, biotechnology, food, of course health and information and communication technology. Something that is in step with the world is nanotechnology and new materials, constructions and production processes, energy, alternative renewable energy choices, transport, security, social humanities and what is a very important Croatian identity. And one of the priorities of course is social integration of education and education, lifelong education that has been spoken of now. And the short-term priorities that will be financed from next year are the environment, health, energy and materials, Croatian identity. At the 14th session, the National Council adopted rules for the application of scientific programmes and projects. It's a huge job that unfortunately didn't go the way we wanted it to and how the ministry wanted it. On the one hand, because of the unpreparedness of the academic community. On the other hand, because of the enormous number of reviewers, 9,000 and some reviewers have been appointed. But what's new in all of this is that international projects actually, that we put projects on one international level, so with domestic reviewers, half of the reviewers were appointed from abroad. The National Council has also made its work public. It opened a web site where you can see the Council doing it transparently, what's happening on it. And what is very important is the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. The National Council has given its support to this memo. In fact, you know that the Republic of Croatia has become a member of 6. The Framework Programme, F6, which was therefore the main and framework programme in the field of science at European level. And what's surprising, you probably heard from the minister, that Croatia has had a phenomenal success in these programmes. Only the Ruđer Boskovic Institute has withdrawn more money than the entire state has put into F6 programmes. Why am I saying that? Because, therefore, Croatia is far the best played here by all countries in transition, even a member of the European Union, which is actually saying that we have the potential in science and that it needs to be further encouraged, which will of course be one of the main objectives of the National Council. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the National Council has achieved very good co-operation not only with the Ministry of origin but also with the National Council for Higher Education, the Rectorial Assembly, universities and their constituents and, of course, with the scientific institutes. What seems important to me to mention about this council, it is a huge job that is coming... Institute because Croatia has no idea how many 26 institutes. A number of these institutes should not actually bear the name of a public institute, and that is what will surely have to be resolved in this process of valorisation of evaluation. The main goal of actually our work at first unfortunately I said, more was the technical nature of it was to bring sublegal acts from the Rules of Procedure, regulations in scientific areas, fields, branches, etc. You can see it in addition, I won't waste my time on it. I might just say a few more words about the goals of our national council. One of the important goals is to identify the existing situation of scientific organisations, there are many problems. Accessing the evaluation of these institutions, projects and programmes of the scientific potential of Croatia, then also equipment and development, the overall development of institutions. The National Council for Science in its work has been defined and this is important to mention, for the development of a system of science based on the principles of excellence, and therefore these international criteria that we particularly represent, excellence should be built through successful individuals, research teams in the Republic of Croatia and through cooperation with our affirmed scientists abroad. The National Council also seeks to support research activities in strategic areas aimed at establishing cooperation between the scientific profiling of institutions, particularly public and scientific institutes of universities and regional profiling. One of the problems of Croatian science so far has been that science is concentrated in one single centre, that is Zagreb. I think these things change a lot and it's very important to distribute science all over the country. The involvement of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian scientists in the European Foundation programme is strongly supported... Since this year, I have become one of the members of the institution and I think there is a great chance of Croatia showing this success in these projects. I'll just mention one thing. The science sector in the European Union, so F7 projects are planning to invest as of next year 57 seems to me billions of euros. 57 billion euros will be difficult for the science sector and now you can see how important this is actually a strategic task for us, which is more involved and recovered, not only to recover but also to exceed the resources we have put into these projects. The Council also estimates that it will continue to stand at the point of view that it will continue to work and create a quality system of science that will be able to be among the better in Europe. I will complete this exhibition with one data published by one of the world's most prominent organizations of science, that is "Embo" which last year announced that Croatian science is, that is, the area of natural science live sences. 140% more productive in the last 10 years and belongs to countries with the largest increase in scientific productivity in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73819	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture? The government representative who delivered the opinion has no intention of orally explaining the government's opinion. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73820	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It's still too late, but we're talking about a very important subject and allow me a few minutes. What I want to point out in particular at the beginning today when we talk about the report on the work of the National Council for Science, in a way we speak directly or indirectly about what is now increasingly referred to as the Croatian Society based on knowledge, and this is important to highlight. This is the strategic goal of this government and it should be recognised as such and that makes sense, it should be emphasized. Because recognising the strategic goal means obtaining political support and creating all the conditions so that this strategic goal can be achieved and I think it is good that every opportunity and place Croatian society is highlighted on the basis of knowledge. Because that's what we're trying to do, it's our common interest and it's this government's programme, it deserves every support and every good strategic goal deserves marketing because good ideas, good projects are important to be recognized on a wider public stage. Why? For the simple reason I will not talk about many others, but the simplest, most important, success in the global world economy is a proportionate level of education of one society, one country, one people and that is why it should be emphasized and therefore should be done to ensure that this strategic goal of the Croatian state, the strategic goal of this government, is indeed possible. However, so is what Prof. Pavelic stressed, success is also proportionate not only to the level of education on average but to what is important and particularly necessary, it is proportional to the number of innovative, creative, excellent individuals. This should also be insisted because without such people there is no change, there is no innovation, there is no better position of Croatian science within Europe, but also beyond. And here, so maybe just a few introductory sentences. He would refer briefly to the report. The National Council, as you pointed out, is the most professional body concerned with the development and quality of overall scientific activities from the science system in the Republic of Croatia and I would say, a very large responsibility and a very complex job in terms of different competences and responsibilities such as the adoption of measures to improve scientific activities, evaluate scientific organisations, monitor the quality of scientific organisations, etc. And in that sense, we hope, in the coming reports of the coming years, that there will be more words, because unfortunately in this report there has been no, for justified and objective reasons, more speaking. Because, unfortunately, the National Council seemed to have started working a few years ago because discontinuity, the interruption of the work of an important institution is inadmissible, but it still believed or did not happen. Something about polls, something about science thinking, scientists. When it comes to the science strategy of the Republic of Croatia, you wrote something about it in your Report as well. The survey's results suggest that 93% of respondents surveyed believe it is necessary to define priorities of national interest, priorities of national interest. I especially stress that. It deserves special attention, it deserves, I would say, additional discussions in the Croatian Parliament. 63% of scientists believe that the Science Strategy should contain a maximum of 5 scientific priorities. I don't think it's in any contradiction with the last one. Important scientific priorities are considered fundamental research. Research in the fields of technical, biotechnical, natural sciences, environmental sciences, etc. I'd say that maybe there's not enough emphasis on applied science, the one that creates strong ties between economics, science, and that's our interest for a number of reasons. I would not analyse it because it is very much when we talk about some important indicators of one country's development that we are talking not only about unemployment or employment but about the structure of those who are employed and their education, their ability to generate added value in a knowledge-based society. And I would therefore say that it is very important, and I hope that the President of the Croatian Parliament will also support it next year, when we also discuss the strategy of the science of the Republic of Croatia that, besides scientists, it is very important and useful to hear and think of the Croatian Parliament and politicians, but here. You wouldn't explain it further. I don't think it's in any way irrelevant, and it's not all that redundancy compared to everything that's been done. And here, in your final review, I'd say a few words that I hope you'll appreciate and that we'll hear more about them in your report in a year or less. The structure of Croatian science is certainly something that deserves special attention, but not the structure of Croatian science as the declarative interest of professors, doctors, magistrates but as something that has its reference in published internationally recognised magazines. Not to those who are betrayed here so that some who cannot be chosen otherwise justify magazines and then publish works in them. So, the structure of Croatian science in a professional, concrete, rigorous way. The competitiveness of Croatian science is also one measure that could be useful and important. Competitiveness or comparison of Croatian science both in structural terms and in qualitative terms with our neighbours, Slovenia, why not, Hungary and many other countries. In our neighboring neighborhood. Because this is very important because of the long-term positioning of the Croatian economy within these regional integrations, cooperation, etc. Also the measure of connectivity, the sciences of the economy can get, I hope certainly, much more objective indicators than what is important to declare as our goal. Researching the value of Croatian scientific capital and some other ideas can be in any case ampairment for the report in the following year. From all that you have said, from all that is in this report, from all that the Croatian Government is doing, especially the Ministry of Science, led by Minister Primorac, the HDZ Club supports this Report. It is good, it is useful and it is no exaggeration to say that today not only because of the support of the Croatian government, personally and the prime minister, but also because of the very high quality, energetic work of the Croatian Minister of Science, infrastructure assumptions are being created in Croatia today which are very important in order for this process of transforming the Republic of Croatia into a knowledge society to have good foundations. And that is why I conclude, we expect a better and more useful report next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73821	Thank you. For the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73822	Mr. President, representatives of the government, Mr. Pavelic, colleagues and colleagues. Here's two formal remarks first. It would be good, I didn't hear why he's not here as president of the National Science Council. If you said that I apologize, if you didn't, it would be okay for the head person of such an important body to address the highest representative and political body in the Republic of Croatia, so it would be good to hear why this is not the case. If you said that, I apologize again. And secondly, you've made one technical failure, an inaccuracies. You said the National Council's resources were provided by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. You are the body of this Parliament. The funds for the work of the National Council are provided by citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the final decision on these funds, and then it can be said that they are provided by the Croatian Parliament, not by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. So this body is also like the body we talked about earlier is actually in this form with the new law, with new powers founded only at the end of 2004. This is his first Report, and since it was not forced into the process quickly because there was a process of reforming higher education, so the National Council had to enter the process by force, this body was not because such a dynamic process of reforming science does not exist, it does not last in Croatia, so this body, the National Science Council, could be more easily committed to these technical assumptions and it was in fact mainly dealt with as Mr Pavelic said with these technical assumptions, so their report was very gretish, very formal. They mainly dealt with appointments, confirmations, the adoption of regulations, and therefore they had a coma, the necessary memorial, I am not saying it in a negative sense, that they participate in discussions and I am glad that the fruit and work of this National Science Council will be recent, my colleague Ćosic says next year, I am glad to hear it, that information is not here in the Report, on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament will come to the Strategy for the Development of Science and Technology in the Republic of Croatia. This is very important, because without it we cannot expect to achieve one of the most important goals, which is the integration of science and economy. It's an old pain, it's been said for 50 years if not years, it's always been said that it should be done, and it's constantly being realized that this real, quality relationship doesn't exist. I expect, of course, that the adoption of the Strategy for the Development of Science and Technology will reflect that fact, that science is directed towards real life and contributes therefore to real life, production, economic life, etc. It will probably contribute to the fact that we've joined the FP6... Programme 6 of the European Union, just as we have become members of the European Science Foundation, which will certainly guide us in some way, and this strategy, as it says here in the Report, will be in this direction, so it must be consistent, therefore, with these basic guidelines of European scientific and research processes and efforts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what is our fundamental problem, I will repeat it, so what concerned the overall budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports also concerns that part of the budget that goes for science, for scientific and research work. And that part of the budget hasn't increased in years. This year, it does not increase quickly enough to achieve the goal of reaching an average of Europe, European countries, Western Europe or the European Union following these investments. We are far from that by investing in science we are far from the average and if we want to achieve that average, then our investment should be a much greater increase in our budget than it has been in recent years, and not to mention this year, because the share of the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, including its share of science in the overall budget, is less than it was in the previous year. There was therefore its absolute nominal increase, but it falls within the total budget of the Republic of Croatia. So it's something that we're setting our goals great now, all to bring about the best strategy, we're not going to be able to achieve. There will, of course, be little help from these European programmes, especially a published FP6 programme, but of course it is not a fundamental goal. The main goal is to make the Republic of Croatia, science, the development of science a fundamental definition. In this regard, this Report should be accepted, of course, because this is the first Report, formal assumptions for the work of the National Council for Science, but much more important will be what is written as the work programme of the Council for 2006, i.e. the 2006 Report, which is the evaluation of scientific institutions, scientific research projects, the scientific potential of equipment and the overall development of institutions in relation to the needs of society. It is a really big job, a demanding job and this job and this report will need, in particular, with special attention to follow, and this report at this time, so as some first step, the first address of the parliamentary body itself to Parliament as a basis for its actual content work, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73823	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected representative Antun Vujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73824	Mr. President, Your Honor. I must continue about in, with those observations with which Mr. Radosh began. I am sorry that only on this occasion but also on the Committee when this report was to be discussed was not Madam President of the Council, so the question now is that you have already had some to say so in the election of members of the Council, whether it can attend meetings or not. I think it's hard for the president of the National Council to have some other job more important at the time of the Parliament's report. I must also point out that this isn't about what's written in here, it's about what's not written. We can agree with all your rules even with this division of waists, areas, fields etc., the way parents and reviewers work, etc., it is not at all controversial. But we don't have one sentence to talk about where the current science is in Croatia. We don't have a single sentence. But the situation is terrible. We used to have strong institutions, institutes like Pliva, like Končar, there were others. We had companies that acted in unification and scientific research and at the same time gave huge economic effects, a type of Geotechnics or I don't know who. That's all there is to it. I don't know how we can hope to think I don't know how good the reports are, etc. To achieve that I think we will have a scientific system that will be able to be among the better in Europe. When? From what assumption? We heard a colleague named Radosh. He used to read some data about the ratio of qualified persons, i.e. highly educated or professional persons in Finland, or we could talk about Ireland, very often talking about how a Finnish or Irish example should be followed. They're nonsensists. There's no elemental conjecture for that. I won't talk about other assumptions here... I'm not going to talk about what the judiciary is, I'm not going to talk about what kind of education the other one is going to be like behind this, etc., but please, we can't seriously talk about this issue without starting with the pronunciation sentence, and the first sentence requires an assessment of the situation in which the current science is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not positive that we all know it and we all know it not in a way that we would now say it as polemically to that party or I don't know what, there were processes that didn't benefit the development of science, and even though in certain areas we could have great scientists who in international circles would do I mean great moves, here and now we've recently helped them, we've had the opportunity to witness maybe to one such maybe, I don't know, I'm not expert on that area, and in total it won't mean what we think human capital as the main factor of development in that human capital is that science and education just now what we said the most important thing. I don't think it's possible to do it either through the National Council, it's quite clear to me, it's only possible to do it this way, and it's that some particular government of the Prime Minister goes on to say, and now we're not going to write a good strategy, it's least important, and it's not even difficult. A lot of good strategies can be written in a few afternoons by a couple of educated people who know the matter, but what our strategic policy will be like to return, I am now saying metaphorical endings to bring back Pliva, to return what we were once known to be Croatia, Zagreb not the other end then. You can't do that. And if that can't be done, I'm going to testify to you with a characteristic lapus that's actually talking about how we might understand things and that we don't really understand them. In one place, I'm sorry, in one place it is said this autonomy of the National Council for Science, says the autonomy of the National Council is based on the way members of the Council are elected, members are elected, etc., etc. This is the only place where there is no autonomy of science because the way these members of the Council are elected has nothing to do with scientific autonomy. They are elected at the government's proposal by being elected by the Parliament. Here it was necessary to develop a subsidized way of organising a scientific community as it is and it is known that around these models are well known that in one Denmark, the Netherlands and elsewhere it can be ensured that excellent judges of excellence, and not bodies that will be set up to help, that we understand this is not a criticism of the very idea of the National Council, although I will honestly say that we have been without it for two years, and now we have it for a year and now in the 7th month, sorry at the 9th month, not this is the 10th debate I think the report from December to December last year. I wish you much luck in working for the next time, but I think we'll do more if as a SDP club we say we can't support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73825	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Draž Vikić Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73826	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representatives. It's already too late, but I think it's good that we've had a little bit of discussion, and I'll try to be as brief as possible. Regardless of the many things you have said do not refer to this report, which is in some way an initial report from 2004 to 2005. I have a few things to mention to you, for example. that, at the 13th session of the National Council on 25.10 last year, a series of very good measures were adopted which, of course, are in line with the measures taken by the surrounding measures in Finland, which was the first one to fully equate basic and applicative research and that is only what distinguishes them from excellence. That's point one. Again in the next point, it was decided that only to support excellent projects, so either applicative, would be fundamental. In the next point, it is said that priority must be given to what is professor. Pavelic also spoke. It was also a big debate and you know, you assume it could have been a lot of priorities. In the end, we managed to agree that nine long-term priorities were made that were well-coordinated with... with a framework programme, a sixth framework programme and a seventh framework programme in the sense that a lot of applications are mentioned by that, of course, that some type of research is left out, I don't know how to explore the universe, and research has been added similarly, which is of national interest, such as the Adriatic Sea, water and river pollution, this has been inserted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is also stressed to bring priorities, to be national priorities first, and then to be European-coordinated. This is obviously not enough in this report and will likely go for the next report. Why? Because with 9.1.2006 they started a new cycle of projects and programmes, and that is, which have just been focused on what the National Council has brought. What may still be crucial is that I agree with this conclusion on policy strategies, but de facto 5.5 this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the first time adopted the scientific technology policy of the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2010 on a 27-page document. So it's not a strategic document, it's... what they say outside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have a good Croatian expression. So it's an operational plan to implement those strategic ideas if we really have one whole set of solid strategic documents. One of the key documents was strategic here in Croatia in the 21st century of 2003, one, we used both the HAZU documents and the National Competitiveness Council and we made one actually operational plan to improve our science. I'm saying a short document with instructions with that now... certain action plans such as that, say, increasing the share of private ownership in research, because you know that the latest result we have from Eurostat is that 1.25% of GDP is invested in Croatia in science and research, of which 0.9 comes from the budget, and only 0.35 comes from the private sector of industry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These 0.9 from the budget is actually very close to that Lisbon strategy that says that out of 3% of 1% must come from the budget and 2% from these other sectors. So let's say we're close to the budget here, this sector is now a whole series of motivational measures, such as the esteemed representative Vulic mentioned to stimulate these research institutes, such as Pliva, in INA, Chromos, to make them more involved. So actually many of the things you mentioned are being done, just not in this report, and actually why this report is a dork. I agree, it doesn't have any strategic findings or anything like that. So look because before that the Council was actually called, it was called the National Scientific Council stopped working. That's where I wrote it on 18.10.2001. And de facto we had in 2002 and 2003 without the work of that council. It began, in early 2004, the candidates began to propose to the Croatian Parliament and while they were elected, the decision was in "The People's Newspaper" Here I wrote 3.12., 3 December 2004. On 14 December 2004, it was a constitutional session of the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education, which went into business. I mean, look, these jobs have to be done. These statutes, those rules, they're techniques, but it was a prerequisite that you could even go into one serious work, no. And now, watch out for the end of the year, now it's gotten very far, I'm telling you. Just to mention that scientific technology policy. It passed through the academic community, through industrial institutes, was accepted by the National Council in early April. The World Bank supported with its reviewers at the end of April and the government adopted on May 05th this year. Now, I thank you very much, I wouldn't be longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73827	Thank you. Deputy National Council President Professor Pavelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73828	Thank you very much. Let me just have two sentences. It's to me as a member of the National Council, I apologize first of all that I forgot to say that the National Council president is on the official route, that one significant part of the session was sick and I was changing it although the law did not prescribe the function of the vice president. I think it'll be in this change. However, I would like to say that I have been extremely useful to your suggestions, all three suggestions. I wrote them down carefully and I think that they will be the basis of the work of the National Council and that, as the Secretary of State said, we will free ourselves from these techniques that had to be unfortunately made, because two, three years ago, that council was not working and that we will now focus on strategic issues. Here I can only promise you that I will initiate these discussions during and this year. They're already starting to get serious. And that what you have actually said to Vujic, in fact, will be the basis of this report because we have before us the evaluations of institutes and projects and, of course, our performance towards EF 7. These are very important problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-12-0.u73829	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 with a debate on the Annual Report of the Committee on Conflict of Interests for 2005 continues. Report on the work of the National Scientific Council for the period 14 December 2004 and 14 December 2005 I am giving the vote the conclusion: the said report is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 76 votes in favour and four abstentions, the proposed report was accepted.
