ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58823	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. We continue to work at the 19th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. In order to make it easier to get on the bench, the purified agenda is divided. Before we move to the session, please honor the many-year-old representative of the Croatian Parliament, both this House and the County House, the deceased representative of HSP, Mr Velimir Kvesic. - A minute of silence. - May he have eternal thanks and glory! As at Friday's session, we decided to merge the points - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax on Profit – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, first reading of P.Z. No. 407 - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local, regional (regional) self-government – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, first reading of P.Z. No. So we're going to move to these two points of the agenda. The proposer of the first law, one and the other, is the Club of Representatives of the CNS. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58824	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will first say something on behalf of the Croatian People's Party's Proposer about the general processes in the development of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, then something about financing and difficulties in financing units of local self-government. And then, of course, he introduces something concrete about these two legal proposals. And it's actually the same idea, which is therefore an increase in the financial force of the local self-government units. Speaking of decentralisation, i.e. local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, it should be pointed out immediately that the Republic of Croatia is a highly centralised country. The best way to measure this is to measure the financial resources, i.e. the financial force of the local self-government unit, and I'm going to talk about it a little bit more. According to these indicators, it is clear, therefore, that these are numerical indicators, exact indicators, that the Republic of Croatia is a country with high centralisation. And in our opinion, and these are the legislative proposals that we have proposed, these past years, including, of course, these two proposals, we think that the time has come for the Republic of Croatia to enter much stronger steps than it has ever been in the process of strengthening local self-government, i.e. the country's decentralisation process. We believe that the overall power of the state is stronger if the local self-government is stronger, and not as it was once understood that the state is stronger its central government. And this process is noticeable everywhere, especially in European countries. The Republic of Croatia compared to them, I will talk about this a little bit more later, is therefore a highly centralised country and our proposals that we have referred to, and the Law on Local Self-Government and this law, that is, these two laws, the Law on the Direct Selection of Mayors. All these laws actually speak of this as our firm position, that the time has long come to strengthen local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, in recent years, unfortunately not much has been done. There have been some minor changes in the small shifts in this sense, but there have been major and more serious developments in the strengthening of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia almost ever since we introduced this model of local self-government, which was 13 years ago and 14 years ago, to the first local elections in 1992. Not only were there no more serious, stronger shifts in terms of strengthening self-government but in some of the moves that took place in recent years there were laws that were also a step back. In recent years, we have passed a law, i.e. amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, where we have increased the jurisdiction of local self-government units, the county, where we have allowed large cities to be established, or we have increased the powers of large cities in relation to cities, but this law is actually a dead letter on paper, because the laws that should enable the implementation of its provisions and the spirit of this law have not been passed, therefore, and this has been a very small step towards strengthening local self-government. Not to mention that some of the laws we have actually passed over the past two years have weakened local self-government units, or their autonomy, or local self-government as such. So the Income Tax Act, which increased the untaxed share of income, reduced the incomes of local self-government units, and if we know that income tax is one of their most important incomes, then we know that we have significantly damaged them financially. When there was a change of the Law on primary education and the Law on secondary education then we increased the powers of the minister in relation to the principals of primary schools, and the original powers of school teachers and parents to choose the school councils themselves were transferred to local self-government units, so we raised them up, and even if that is so at the level of local self-government units, each raising power from the bottom to the top is a step towards centralization. So over the past years in this sense we have indeed done very little, and of course I repeat the time, and the trends that exist in the world behind which we lag behind are such that we should therefore make stronger steps towards strengthening local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia, a decentralisation committee was appointed a few, one year ago, but we don't really know what the results of his work are. If these are the work results we've seen so far, then this commission doesn't actually do its job and it's better that it's not appointed if it's going to be the results of his work. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in a series of replicas on our draft laws and proposals of other parties and MPs, shows its position for decentralisation, to strengthen local self-government, announces even the Laws on the financing of local self-government units that would be in favour of local self-government units, but these laws so far are not, and of course time is passing in this fundamental trend, so the weaknesses of local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia continue to go forward, i.e. we are lagging behind in the fundamental objective, which is strengthening local self-government units. In our country, if we exclude this recent law that has little differentiated large cities, but I repeat, it has not given them real powers because it will give some other laws that will only be passed in the Republic of Croatia, we do not have units of local self-government that would be according to their size whose jurisdiction would be according to their size. So we have the fact that municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and cities in the Republic of Croatia have the same powers, and of course this is not logical. Local self-government units should have different powers according to their size, so the question of the city's position today in relation to the municipality is, in fact, an issue that has absolutely not been resolved, the cities have received that status as a mere symbol, as mere symbolism and for the name of the city stands no special authority or special additional authority regarding their own business and our own incomes, and therefore we have tried to do something with the recent adoption of the law, so before the previous local elections, by introducing major city status, but I repeat, that law has remained a dead letter on paper until now. Thus, almost all our units of local self-government and municipalities and cities and large cities have the same powers, and these powers in total are small. Not to mention the county that is a unit of regional self-government in heaven or on earth, whose powers are also very small, which is not, of course, the beginning of regional self-government so that between the central government and the local self-government units is some very strange structure of regional self-government, and of course, the fact that the financial force is a county and, of course, the actual competences of the county are actually very problematic. Here is the overall state of local self-government according to our assessment and I repeat, therefore, the fundamental position that it is time for the Republic of Croatia to make more serious steps towards strengthening local self-government. When it comes to finance and financial decentralisation, then it should be noted that finance is one that shows the real power of local self-government in a country. In the Republic of Croatia, of all incomes collected and spent in the public sector, so in the system of government, around 14% or 15% of the waste on local self-government units. If this is taken away, it takes away some 2.5 billion kunas that are used for balancing funds and for financing decentralised functions, which are more transfers than the incomes of local self-government units where local self-government units actually show up as only mechanisms for implementing decisions of the central government, hence it is difficult to talk about local, local self-government units, then, of course, this amount of 14 or 15% is further reduced. If it is known that of these remaining 12% of the City of Zagreb is almost 50% of the income, then for all our municipalities, all our cities, all our counties remain somewhere around 7% of the total income collected and spent at the level of units of local self-government. Speaking on the road to the City of Zagreb, it should be said that the City of Zagreb, which therefore makes up half of the income and costs of local self-government, is also highly centralised. So its 17th quarter, or its 15 major cities by our criteria, spend only 3% of the total income of the City of Zagreb, and of course the basic purpose of the idea of local self-government is to bring it down to as low a level as possible. This, of course, is not just about the City of Zagreb, but I am talking about it because it is so much, it has a share in the total revenues and costs of local self-government. It concerns the rest of our big cities. It also concerns Split, as well as the Rivers, and so does Osijek. And these cities are highly centralised because at lower levels, urban districts almost spend no funds, and that means that if we are to decentralisation, we should also be for decentralised. It is not the idea to bring down power to the first level of the city of Zagreb or large cities, but to bring down as low as possible, which means that we should, of course, approach decentralisation and our large cities, especially the City of Zagreb. For which, I repeat, at the level of its city districts, which is 15 large cities according to our rules, our laws only spends about 3% of the total income of the City of Zagreb. All this says, therefore, that the Republic of Croatia is a highly centralised country, and according to the Croatian Legal Centre, the question here is, of course, how do these figures count. According to the Croatian Legal Centre, Croatia is 10.32% for the total local needs, so the income of units and local and regional self-government is 10.32%. According to their calculations, it is 10.32%, and the European average is about 25% of the income, and the most developed countries in that sense, which are Scandinavian countries, spend up to 50% of all public revenues, collect and spend at the level of units of local self-government. The Republic of Croatia, therefore, lags behind the average of European countries. Thus, the Czech Republic has 20.8%, Hungary 26.7%, Poland 28.8%, Estonia 22.1, Latvia 25.0, Lithuania 22.8. So all these transition countries at the level of local self-government units spend twice or more than twice as much as the Republic of Croatia. And the right step for the Republic of Croatia would be to make total costs, i.e. total revenues of local self-government units at the very least. Of course, it's a big procedure. We propose a small one with this proposal, but in our opinion, a big step. I'll talk about it later, but that would be the direction the Republic of Croatia should go. Of the 50 member states of the Council of Europe, we are somewhere in the 40th place, and in order to get somewhere in the middle, therefore, we should have the income of local self-government units, so we should at least double. To make the matter an even more unfavourable part of these revenues are not their own incomes or taxes from local self-government units. Most of these incomes they have, which are, of course, income tax, profit tax and other taxes are allocated taxes. This means that the local self-government unit does not have the ability to write those taxes or determine their rates. These are taxes that are determined by several authorities, here in Croatia it is central government. So that's their maneuvering ability, creativity, planning, etc., further reduces. One part of these taxes, let's say income tax is a common tax because local self-government units have the possibility of making cuts, and such taxes where both authorities have the possibility of calling and fixing tax quotas are called common taxes. That would be income tax with us. And his own taxes, therefore, which he completes, determines their quota, decides whether or not the unit of local self-government has very little, would be advertising taxes, markets, gambling, tourist stay, holiday houses, electricity consumption, etc. These taxes are very small and complete income units of local self-government not only in the Republic of Croatia or in the world of these taxes are only about 1%. Therefore, the basic taxes that strengthen units of local self-government, income tax, real estate tax and profit tax are taxes that have been allocated to taxes or at best common taxes. Therefore, local self-government units do not have high and high competences in planning these taxes. And of course, I can't plan any jobs based on those revenues. So what does the Croatian People's Party Club propose in this Act? By this law, we propose that the profit tax that is being collected in Croatia today is actually wrongly, because the profit tax goes to that unit of local or regional self-government on whose territory is the headquarters of the appropriate company that has earned its profits. So we have a completely unfair situation that various factories, companies, etc., draws infrastructure, communal and each other, from units of local self-government where they really do business and make profits, and that profit goes to those units of local self-government where their headquarters is. It is absolutely unfair, but it is very difficult to achieve that distribution of the profit tax goes towards the point of profit because of course it can be only one organisational whole of the company so it is difficult to assess where the profits were achieved and, of course, it is difficult to give that gain to local self-government units in the area where it is realized and whose infrastructure that company draws. Therefore, the most elegant solution in the current circumstances is that the profit tax is fully left to the central government and that income tax is the full income of units of local, regional self-government. The fact that income tax would increase the share of the country's loss to the counties because the counties under our laws almost have no room for manoeuvre to increase their fiscal incomes means their total income, and thus their own responsibilities. So that's the meaning of our proposal, and that's the same thing about real estate taxes, about real estate sales. Therefore, the tax would fully belong to units of local and regional self-government and would again, in some respect, as indicated in the proposal, be shared between units of regional self-government, so county and local self-government units. That's the point of this proposal. As for its impact on local self-government units, including the City of Zagreb, it is about 640 million kunas that would therefore receive units of local self-government more than they have at this time. This is not a major increase if we exclude the City of Zagreb from working around 10% of the income increase, but knowing that most of these revenues are fixed and that spending on quite certain functions these 10% increase the income of our municipalities, cities and counties without the City of Zagreb significantly increased the ability to manage and develop some projects at the level of units of local self-government. That's why we call this step a small step. So, these 10% incomes would allow for much greater creativity of local self-government units, and what is there is an additionally favourable income tax environment that would now be the main tax, tax revenue of local self-government units is very stable unlike the income tax that can be oscillated, income tax is a very stable income and therefore would allow local self-government units to plan their own income in the long term, and then that means that they can plan their own jobs in the long term. So that's the extra meaning of this proposal. What should be pointed out in particular is that it is a model that is very simple. The mark of our models is particularly tax distribution that they are very complicated, so a) it is difficult to manage, a b) there is the possibility of manipulation, such as the question of when there is an increase in the untaxable part of income tax here, and it is forgotten that this reduces the income of local self-government units that make up one of their main incomes. So, with this model of income tax distribution that goes entirely to local, regional self-government and profit tax that goes completely to the central government, these injustices that I was talking about in terms of profit tax are avoided, and the tax system is simplified as well, income increases by 10%, and the total income of local self-government units becomes much more stable, and then, of course, it is easier to plan not only income but also the jobs of those units of local self-government. That is why we feel that this Law should be adopted. This law is therefore in the trend of all that is happening in Europe and the world, which is therefore a constant strengthening of local self-government units. I repeat that we believe that our other proposals, which is the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government that we have proposed and we will re-propose it, the Law on the Direct Selection of Mayors and these legislative proposals, say that ours is permanent, that local self-government is the future of the Republic, that it is a time past when we need to fear local self-government, that the state is stronger the local self-government in it, and that is why we are proposing this bill as well. Before the state has the strength or determination, or the political will to enter all of these other reforms of local self-government, and I repeat that this means doubling the financial strength and competence of local self-government units and this small step would be welcome. The increase of the financial force by 10% without decentralisation of powers, meaning with existing powers, would greatly increase the creativity of local self-government units, and the costs of the state budget would not be such that the state would also be functioning in any sense damaged or threatened. Here are the reasons, colleagues and colleagues, why we believe that this proposal that should be accepted is here in the interest of units of local self-government, but it is also in the interest of the overall political and democratic process in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58825	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58826	Mr. Vice-President, fellow Members and colleagues, the correction of the incorrect alleged name of the county, i.e. local and regional self-government has no small, or no authority, has good powers and depends on how it has its budgetary resources and how much killings can contribute to its own development. For example, Countys adopt spatial plans, good spatial plans develop the region, increase the value of real estate, enable more traffic, i.e. real estate tax, certainly for example in the coastal districts have opportunities and in the port administration to collect revenue from it to invest in maritime well-being, also in the county road administrations, but at this very moment they are concerned about how to collect and collect the revenues they own. At this point, the county and local and regional self-government, municipalities and cities have good powers and should force its training and training precisely in what the legal possibility gives them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58827	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58828	Mr. Peronja hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 209, he made his point, and he did not correct my incorrect claim. Namely, I claim that units and local self-government with about 10% of total income have low income and small powers because the powers are as much revenue, and in particular this applies to the counties. Countys in the Republic of Croatia have about 1% or less of the total revenues of public income in the Republic of Croatia, if it is enough for Mr. Krono Peronj, it can, of course, be his position, but our basic position is that it is not enough and that the counties should have a significantly higher financial strength, and that means significantly higher powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58829	Category a little bit big that's pretty stretchy. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBNS and MDS Mr. Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58830	How much... this in such a short time, but good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me, in the name of the club, be brief, therefore, of the regional parties to declare these legal initiatives that come to us from the Croatian People's Party. Well, in short, for starters, we will certainly support this initiative. For us it is indeed the beginning, hopefully the beginning so that it will move towards decentralisation of Croatia. We hope to move forward with this first step and end with much more important reform procedures that will establish a country-funded relationship towards local units than 60:40%. That's our goal. So we see this legislative initiative as the first step towards decentralisation of Croatia. Croatia began its life in the independence phase as a highly centralised state, explaining the challenges of moment and historical necessity. Today, however, this high centralised is the main reason for the oscillation of social life, one of the essential reasons for unequal development or frantic differences in the state of development and percentage of the growth of gross social product between the Croatian regions, i.e. The province. The decentralisation of the process of empowerment and empowerment, above all, of local self-government units, so that what is given within the borders of the local community is done there and that only the most complex tasks would be passed on to more institutions, regions, states and supranational structures. The decentralisation would, according to its effects, be similar to the process of withdrawing the state from corporate governance and would ensure sufficient public interest and motivation for community affairs, which at this point is one of the main bad consequences of centralised and apartness. It would be able to fully and without rest introduce the principle of management, introduce local authorities and thus increase the responsibility of citizens and taxpayers. The delegation of powers and fiscal capacity from the state to regional and local authorities, which would be achieved by this law, would ensure the improvement of the action of a few principles, before all fairness, transparency, austerity and freedom of action and initiation. Such initiatives, therefore, on fiscal decentralisation here are quite common to the Croatian Parliament. There are almost no years without such initiatives being submitted. Here, I can only remind myself that I have submitted this initiative myself along with my respected fellow parliamentary representatives, former counterparts Balthazar Jalsovec and the late Srecko Bijelic. That was 98. Unfortunately, nothing important has changed since the year 98. The relationship between the state budget and the city budget and municipalities remained almost the same or unchangeable. That's what the data tells us. The 97th budget, the state budget was worth 38 billion kuna, the city of Zagreb 2 billion and 660 million and all units of self-government, local self-government and administration were slightly above 5 billion kuna. As a percentage, this means a ratio of 82% for the state, 5.7% for the city of Zagreb, 11.5% for cities, municipalities and counties. This relationship continued to this day, as it changed that our cities, the districts, had received many privileges that they had to serve. Also, by 2004, decentralised funds had also been included in the budgets of our cities and counties. So, for example, the 2004 budget for the state budget was 100 billion kuna. So that's where we record the biggest increase. We have about 2.5 billion kuna left in the county that has 21. The 550 towns and municipalities in Croatia are visited by 9 billion kunas and therefore goes to the city of Zagreb about 5 billion kunas. So we're witnessing a debate, one by one, an unfair relationship, in order to redistribute the financial cake. We said before that Croatia is in our opinion a highly centralised country, but despite its high centralised country, which could, as such, improve all important parts of the development of the Republic of Croatia by some means. to large differences in standard between our counties i.e. The province as spoken in our Constitution. So the data tells us, here are the following data for last year 2005 that the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was 4 thousand 376 kuna, that the largest salary in the city of Zagreb was 4 thousand 851 kuna and that the lowest salary in the County of Međimurje was 3 thousand 180 kuna. So the difference is almost 30%. Also, a gross social product. In it we also record, register great deviations and great differences. The gross social product in the Republic of Croatia in euro is 5 thousand and 900 euros, in the city of Zagreb it is 10 thousand and 500 euros, and in other counties it is much lower than Međimurska where 4000 is 700, in Brodo-Posaviska there are 3 thousand and 300 euros, etc. So we see that the centralized state cannot fill in me or us, in the opinion of our Regional Party Club, one of the essential roles to ensure the even development of the entire state. We should therefore go to the decentralisation of fiscal funds. Also in the regionalisation of Croatia. So when we talk about this fiscal decentralisation right over here I have an example from Spain where there are also large debates on how to carry out fiscal decentralisation. They are therefore well aware of themselves far ahead of us as regards both regionalization and decentralisation, therefore. It also has history and traditions, but we note that the talks between Madrid and Catalonia have been held in this sense in order to go into further decentralisation of Spain, so I will quote: "It is also a minor request from the original text approved by the Catalan Parliament in September that Catalania would receive absolute control over all tax revenues collected on its territory." So Catalonia demanded that all tax revenues remain in its territory, in the region. Under the new plan, therefore, they began negotiations, according to the new Barcelona plan, they would have the right to have 50% of all taxes more than the current 33%. So we see what it's like in Spain. So the Spanish regions have 33% of tax revenues, but they are not satisfied with that. And how only our regions could be satisfied with the current situation. This existing Law on profit tax we support, but we think it is only the first step we have said towards decentralisation, to regionalisation, and according to this Law, the state only gives up one small part of its budget cake, which is huge, which amounts to more than 100 billion kuna. The state's proposal for this law leaves only 320 million kuna. So ours is, our club's position is to go into stronger reforms, not overnight, but gradually with the ultimate goal of redistributing 60:40%. Finally, we should train strong regions in Croatia and make this procedure right as it was done in the European Union. And regionalising Croatia would, in our opinion, mean raising democratic standards and reducing governance costs, and freeing initiatives and potentials not to speak. Croatia should be shared in several regions and give significant powers and financial potential to these regions. The modern state today does not belong much more than defence, foreign and monetary policy. All other forms of public activity should be managed by regions and local communities led by national and, of course, more and more European norms and standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58831	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58832	Mr. Pavlic, in front of a group of regional parties, has said he hopes this is the beginning of decentralisation of the reform of local self-government. In that part, this is the beginning of decentralisation of local self-government reform, there is a guilty allegation. This would be the beginning if, by any chance, the government had suggested it. This, but he suggested one of the opposition parties, so we know how you and Mr. Pavlic and I and all the MPs will end up in advance. This may be a possible sensitization of the government, but unfortunately again, I doubt anything will happen. However, if something is not done when local self - administration comes to terms with this situation that we unfortunately have will be the end of local self - government. Because it will all focus on the normal functioning of the state with 106 billion kuna, the city of Zagreb with 6.6 billion kuna and large cities such as Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Velika Gorica, Pula with some 4 billion kuna, totaling 10 and a half to 11 billion kuna and for the counties they have two and a half billion kunas and other cities [[Intruder: Thank you.]] there's almost nothing left. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58833	Correction of Mr Branimir Pasecky's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58834	Mr. President, I cannot accept the findings that were said here to be democratisation, that this is a better situation. For me, this is even making a bigger difference between those who have and those who have little or no almost nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58835	Okay. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58836	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of local and regional /regional/ self-government, which was directed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and concluded that it would not support their adoption. These Law proposals propose legal solutions for which income tax becomes the income of units of local and regional self-government, while retaining the source of revenue from a position to help offset decentralised functions while the profit tax would be the full income of the state budget. In addition to the above, it is proposed that real estate tax be the total income of units of local and regional, regional self-government. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club estimates that these proposals envision fiscal decentralisation of the state budget's income itself while the expenditure structure of the budget and other commitments remain the same. The decentralisation of the revenues of the state budget without decentralisation of the expenditure of the state budget is not financially sustainable. We believe that a complete analysis of decentralisation is needed first, to determine for which functions of the unit of local self-government will be used for which purposes and for which purposes only then decentralised revenues. The proposed amendments to the Law are not seriously and studioly elaborated on all the areas which they touch and which are not taken into account the consequences that can arise from them. According to the Government, changes and additions to the proposed laws, the State budget would be lower by 408 million and 300,000 kuna, revenues. The proposed laws would also reduce the amount of the balancing position for decentralised functions by around 175 million, as it would no longer be subject to a single unit in the field of special state concern. At the same time, 215 municipalities and cities in the area of special state care and mountain and mountainous areas proposed by the law would lose in the distribution of income tax around 152 million kuna, requiring the amendment of specific laws on special state care and on mountain-mounted areas. The municipalities and cities on the islands would also lose about 46.9 million kuna. According to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional government, the regional self-government of states shall impose its share of income tax on islands if they are signatories of the Agreement on joint financing of capital projects of interest for the development of the island, while these proposals of the law are not regulated. Since many investments are under way, it is not resolved, or proposed, who would continue to finance them and from which sources. It remains unresolved who, instead of the state, will pay back more paid income tax to citizens in the field of special state care, which was based on the Law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2004 and 2005, which was paid by the State in 2005, which amounted to 442 million kuna in 2005. Furthermore, the bill's proposals remain an unresolved issue to which 1% of the share of income tax is allocated for the decentralised function of firefighting in units that did not take over the function, amounting to 60.7 million kuna. The fact is also that less developed units of local self-government which have low employment and poorly developed economic activity are, therefore, on the basis of which they also generate income from income tax, whose real estate is mostly cheaper, where real estate tax is low in this law placed in an unequal inferior position which, under the conditions of reduced revenues of the state budget, is difficult to achieve a policy of more balanced or even development. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club are not against decentralisation of functions, but in order to achieve this, a complete analysis of decentralisation of functions must be made, transparently and fully, of all parts of the system and create conditions for quality transmission of functions. Guidelines for the economic and fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006 to 2008 through the framework programme of decentralisation for the period 2004, 2007 and amendments to the Law on Local, Regional Self-Government, the transfer of certain functions to lower levels has been established, with an assessment of the effects. At that time, new relations will also be established in the division of common taxes between states and units of local and regional self-government in line with functions to be decentralised. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community's club suggests that these draft laws are not accepted in such unsettled forms.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58837	Thank you. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll have two corrections of incorrect allegations. This bill only provides for decentralisation of state revenues. In fact, decentralisation of state expenditure, the state budget, this Assembly has already passed exactly 18 laws today, where it has transferred some of the state budget commitments to the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties. Another incorrect allegation is that this bill would make the state budget lose 408 million kuna. In fact, we have calculated and we claim that 320 million kuna is only 0.2% of the state budget, or to make that loss more clear under the allegations of the state budget would be only 40% of the state budget, which is the government of Prime Minister Sanader's proposal to forgive sports clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58839	Thank you. Another correction by Mrs. Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58840	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Also, my correction of the incorrect quote refers partly to a figure which, in the proposal for this law, in the revenue of the state budget, to be reduced by 408. In fact, our tables show exactly that this revenue is 320 million, but on the other hand I would correct another incorrect allegation, which is the one relating to mountainous mountainous areas and areas of special state concern, because, as you can see, the help of balancing remains the same both in the present and future proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58841	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58842	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. It is clear that everything offered in the area of decentralisation should also be accepted in this proposal that the IDS Club also has a reserve regarding these mountainous and mountainous areas or areas of special state concern, the island because it would obviously come into something more unfavourable than the one in which they are present today. I agree, and I'm reluctant, but I agree that if you take the state's money off, then you have to take it off one side and make a commitment. If you get some rights, if your fiscous is bigger, then clearly you need to get some new obligations. That's number one, and that's some legality she was talking about just before my predecessor. The second thing I want to say, however, is Croatia is mature for one radical decentralisation. In these 15 years, the Republic of Croatia has spent a lot of time agreeing with me hundreds of people in reform from the police, in the administration, in the judiciary, in the cataster, in the grantovnica. Now we hear there's something going on in the area of corruption. Something has brought a lie to the former government, but in one reform this country cannot move, which is a reform of local self-government. So this is the reform that would clearly concern the decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia, and until now in the area I know the Armed Forces, police reform, catastra, grantovnica, corruption, etc. Every power when it comes to power collapses into the rule of what it did before it, means former power and goes with some new reform in reality clearly does not happen, the country taps in place and in public it creates the impression that God knows what has to be done or seems to be done. However, the people as wise as they are, and for this situation, there is a fine folk proverb: “A full of grandmothers a weighty child. ” And so mine would be a message to some new government that will come, whichever it is to realize that life doesn't begin with it, because reform to reform is more often paralysing, killing our society than it does. The result is that, in general, what seems to be the only benefit is real, unfortunately, there is red tape at this point. So here's how we're going to read, and this government is going to hire four thousand new employees soon. However, in six months, these new officials will strike with those old officials, as both will not be satisfied with their salaries. And those old officers will have even less pay, because the mass of pay if we don't go to rebalance will remain the same. And for this one alone, under quotes "reform" or what it is, this additional employment of 4000 people in public administration should be provided at an annual level by about 400 million kuna. 4000 of these civil servants times 4000 nets, i.e. 7 thousand gross, is at an annual level of 350 million kuna, i.e. with material costs, etc. about 400 million kunas. So, only in this year on that basis should we predict 200 million kuna, and we don't see that money in the budget. One word, he's gone. What I'm trying to say is that the system of local self-government, mostly the financial forces of our counties, as someone has already said, is simply ridiculous. 250 Croatian counties made revenues of only 2 and a half billion kuna in 2005. If we share these 2 and a half billion kunas with 20 Croatian counties, we get about 120, 130 million kunas on average by county. And what else is happening to you? The state is continuing to lower your new obligations with regard to general hospitals, which I know, which have twice as much income as our counties, and then nothing is working anymore, and then the counties have to be further in debt so that the whole health care system doesn't fall apart they have to be further in debt, etc., etc. Clearly, these revenues that we are talking about here today would be welcome for the county. And that's why strictly purposeful revenues should be predicted for health care, because that kind of note went bankrupt. Secondly, we see from this law that from profit tax in 2004 4 billion kuna 588 million were achieved. In 2005, I don't know, maybe slightly more, but I'm using this data we got from the promoter. In 2004, 89 million kuna, 333 million kuna, belonged to the municipalities. Zagreb 871 million kuna, the county's only 164 million kuna, and the country's 3 billion 131 million kuna. These comparisons of Zagreb, i.e. 568 remaining local self-government, are interesting. The city of Zagreb achieved 871 million kuna on this basis, and these 568 units of remaining local self-government are only 586 million kunas. Or Zagreb, which has 20% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, 800 thousand, should have a million, means every fourth lives in these areas, has achieved as much as 285 million kuna on the basis of profit tax more than the rest of Croatia. However, we must understand whether legislators must understand that it is not only Zagreb Republic of Croatia and the question is where it is headed. And I will say that if such a policy comes when these funds are made by local self-government, we will come into a situation that Zagreb will suck Croatia up. There is no one against Zagreb clearly, but it will happen to us. Politically already sucked into Croatia. Let the electoral law be changed and then it will definitely happen that 95% of people will be sitting in this Parliament too. Economically, it almost sucked Croatia. Financially absolutely sucked into Croatia. And what's going to happen to us is that it's going to happen demographically tomorrow. Which will be the biggest tragedy for the Republic of Croatia because the entire ends of this country will remain empty. Why do I say Zagreb? Because they're located here, let's let the city services, all the ministries, all the leading public companies. About banks, clearly foreign property doesn't need to be used up. And not to list all the big industries. What do we do? Polycentricly form Croatia. And as far as local self-government is concerned, I will repeat myself again, taking the principles of decentralisation, decentralisation he knew and the Constitution of '74. And it's no blasphemy, it's no nostalgia for nothing, it's no provocation, it's the fact of Croatia's fastest development. And I'm saying it was in '74. '90s. A year. Okay, let's get this straight, we know. '91. '95. It was a war. 30% of countries spend their money on defence, military, humanitarian needs, etc., but today is indeed the time for this country to be decentralised and when it comes to money and when it comes to powers. But clearly when it comes to obligations. The state understandably needs to keep everything that other countries have, which is what countries do otherwise. Both the military and pensions and monetary policy and diplomacy and customs and the judiciary and major state investments in order to bring the entire country's development, higher education and so on. But everything else needs to be left to local self-government. Clearly, it's not easy to tear anyone away from a device like this. Remove these dependent units of local self-government from the budget breast, so to speak. But such a structure is simply unspeakable and it is mature for change. What is proposed here in this bill? First, it is mentioned that the profit tax is now a state tax. For 2004, 4 billion 588 million kunas were received. Secondly, income now becomes income tax local, so to speak, taxes or units of local self-government, municipalities, cities, counties. And here we still have a real estate tax that also becomes a local tax. Or the state would decrease by 2004 to 700 million kuna on the basis of income tax, but it would be allocated to 4 billion kuna 80 million more, 700 million kuna, but actually local self-government would additionally receive 320 million kuna based on real estate tax. So here one calculation from these tables shows that it's 320 million kuna or 420 million kuna. Mr. Radoš mentioned as much as 600 million kunas before, and the government is using 408 million kuna data, which is also by my calculations at 420 million kuna and somehow the closest to the truth. It is not much if these 320 or 408 or 420 million kunas were assigned to local self-government, it would certainly make every mayor happy, however, it is not a solution. Changes must be incomparably drastic. With 408 or 320 or 420 million kuna, decentralisation cannot be accessed. This does not achieve decentralisation. I think it would be best for the profits to pay the companies clearly where they make the profits, and that the state goes to the distribution of VAT between themselves and the county with a certain percentage. Clearly VAT is the highest tax, no one is going to give it up so easily, but if we want to decentralisation then we have to think that this 2% point of 22, we simply leave it to the counties, to increase their income in the first phase by at least double from 2.5 million kuna to cca 5 billion kuna, but that the state lowers clearly and fully on the basis of some developmental, social rights that citizens now make towards the state. It's an extremely serious job, no doubt. This cannot be done over the knee, it is worth it I agree with those who speak extremely serious analysis, but Croatia if it wants its system to fall apart, it will have to go there because I said just before, of those 2.5 billion kuna we have 20 counties, on average they make a income of 120, 130 million kuna. No matter what 120, 130 million kunas to come up with life in an area! It is clear that no one has anything against these 320 to say Mrs Chichin-Shain or 408 million kuna, as the Government would say, but higher than this distribution towards mountainous and mountainous areas, islands, or units of special state concern, is the question of whether it is fair. So, gentlemen's solution lies in the VAT, for the start of 10% VAT, there would be a real reform of local self-government and decentralisation, with certain obligations directed towards local self-government. It is clear about the first reading and it is understandable that the IDS will support this law as we have supported this HSS, mainly because it has apostrophe in the tax on the profit of the position of a small craftsman who has de facto from the Government to the day of today received nothing. The workers got the so-called. Social housing, okay, no one's against that someone for 5 or 8 thousand marks has come to the apartment, what bothers that someone is now selling that apartment for 80 or 180 thousand euros. Directors of former, socialist, former HDZ authorities have received factories, or hotels, the country will get peasants which is the same, not if they would then resell it, but a business space which is the same as the country's peasant, the craftsman will not get. He can't buy it from neither the city nor the state, and I'm saying just that strictness training in that category of citizens isn't fair. Mr. Radosh mentioned earlier that local self-government under quotes belongs between 14% and 15%. That's about 14, 15 billion kuna. But realistically, those decentralised funds, which are about 2.5 billion kuna, are de facto assets of the state that only transfer counties, i.e. cities towards schools, retirement homes, hospitals, etc. means that our local self-government is really participating somewhere with 11% in the total distribution of income achieved on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. If we say no to about 6 to 7% of these 11% of the total waste in the City of Zagreb, de facto everyone else achieves incomparably less than 6.5 to 7%. I'm going to say once again, the county only 1.5% of the total of these funds, and that's one situation that's at least ringing on the alert so we don't get to find out in a relatively short time that these institutions can't exist anymore. What is needed once again I will stress, especially in this legislative solution, although I am clearly in favour of one radical decentralisation, regionalisation, this is the position of mountainous and mountainous areas, i.e. areas of special state concern, because in this model and the environment at this time lose over 100 million kuna and it is unacceptable for gentlemen. I agree County Istrian will get something more, but my city of Buzet would get less. Pula would get more, and these hilly areas, I don't know one Gracice, Oprtalj, Laniste, etc. We'd get incomparably less, and that's inadmissible. Therefore, in front of the IDS Club, let this legislative proposal pass the first reading, let us give it that support and let us ask a clear promoter to elaborate on those moments. I'll tell you one more time for the end. Anything offered in the area of decentralisation should absolutely be accepted. I would like to point out that the Republic of Croatia is mature for radical decentralisation, that in these 15 years since the 90th on here, 91, we have implemented dozens, hundreds of reforms have said before than the Armed Forces, the police, the judiciary, the judiciary, the catastra, we are even threatening to reform or I don't know what we are doing in the area of corruption, but there is no way to go into that real, essential reform of the Republic of Croatia, which is the local self-government. This is what the Republic of Croatia needs most at this time because it turns out that whoever has power at the state level in Zagreb de facto government and all those areas of Istria, Rijeka, etc., where they did not get the real position of power, i.e. the favor of the electoral corps. Because the government is run by the central authorities, the police are run by the central authorities. The judiciary is being appointed by ministers, about state lawyers not to speak, and all other institutions are actually being handled from this place. That's what's going to change in this country, gentlemen. I am aware of the fact that this may be the most complex, broadest, broadest reform in which Croatia should engage but without that happiness in this country and the prospects for this country will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58843	Thank you very much, colleague. They really listened very carefully to you colleagues. You have 7 corrections of incorrect allegations. Hebrang was the first to come forward. Here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58844	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would have corrected Mr. Cain's false claim. You're supposed to fix a lot, but I've only got one right. He said the health note went bankrupt. So you haven't read the latest health account HZO published to you that reads like this. HZZO of the total commitment 2003. 6 billion 900, last year 4 and 600 or a billion and 332 million less. They reached a billion and 500 in 2003, past 761 or 800 million less. In 2003, hospitals arrived in 2006, these 2 and 200 or 400 million less. And finally, the lack of revenue over expenditure 2003. 6.05%, in the final account of 4.66% or 1.32% less last year. So much for healthcare bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58845	Thank you very much, colleague. Next is representative Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58846	What Hegel would say, a team up by the fact that hebrang's colleague lists, but I am correcting one false assumption where colleague Cain says that he is, in fact, how the 74 Constitution has enabled the very rapid development of the Republic of Croatia. A fellow Letica I trust in these expertises says it was a long time ago, that it was in the '50s when it was still true, until 57. But this is what we talk about when it comes to the 74 Constitution, so we don't mysteriousize it. It was a constitution that offered relative social security, but not a single political element called a multi-party, called political freedoms, human rights, so regionalisation, it's all in the Constitution. In fact, it is for these very reasons that it would be very bad for this constitution to be mystified precisely because political freedoms are assumptions for any economic prosperity. And it is up to us here that we, in fact, now with our legislation, fix exactly, that is, political freedoms to bring certain economic well-being.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58847	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up, MP Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58848	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In his presentation, a colleague, Cain, listed the following. Croatia developed the most between 1970 and 1990. That quote, of course, is not true. Mr. Cain was still very young at the time to be able to judge it from practice, obviously from some other sources of judgment. Namely, one of the main features of development is the level of investment and engagement of construction firms and the number of employees in these companies in one period of time. So, just one of the indicators. In 1980, 136 construction workers in companies were employed in Croatia and in late 1989. Eighty-five thousand. So this great development has conditioned the loss of employment for 45 thousand construction workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58849	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is counterpart Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58850	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It would correct the incorrect quote that counterpart Cain said about the City of Zagreb. In fact, it would point out that the citizens of the City of Zagreb are clearly sharing the idea that funds and incomes should be decentralised in Croatia for the reason that the City of Zagreb suffers daily from the burdens that are caused by such centralisation. In fact, in the last year, the City of Zagreb was moved to the City of Zagreb by 86 thousand inhabitants. I allow all MPs here to assess for themselves what this burden means for the City of Zagreb, for its citizens and for its complete infrastructure, public transport of the City of Zagreb. So the citizens of the City of Zagreb are also very interested in the evenly politicistic development of Croatia, perhaps significantly more than all others who do not find their jobs in their small environments and need them to move into large cities. So, the interest of large cities is precisely this politic development of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58851	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is the representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58852	My colleague Cain is the victim of a demographic panic that is created and claims to threaten in fact the Croatian population's lack at local levels. He thinks it's a big bribe. Croatia is a very attractive country. We have the next danger. A new Croatian settler wave from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina threatens us first. And what people don't know is that the labour market of the Western Balkans is opening, and possibly CEFTA. And Croatia is the most attractive country in the country. So in a completely different direction, we need to think from this offered by this colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58853	Thank you very much for the correction. Next, a fellow representative, Pero Kovacevic, was registered for correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58854	Dear Madam Vice President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain. The first refers to the part for the City of Zagreb. In fact, the City of Zagreb, regardless of what Mr. Cain said, has a specific position because he performs affairs from the jurisdiction of the state directly. Unlike all other cities, municipalities and counties. So he's doing direct business in the jurisdiction of the state, and it's logical that if he's doing something, he should have a higher amount of resources. And I'm correcting another incorrect quote, and my colleague Cain keeps saying we'll support it, we won't support it, and he's never at the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58855	Thank you very much. Please, colleagues and colleagues. We have another correction to the incorrect assumption. She is a colleague of Zdenka Babić-Peteričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58856	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Cain, it is not true that only HDZ's power was shared by its HDZ factory. I don't justify what wasn't legal. Mr. Kajin, in this privatisation, was involved, statistically proven, 5% of HDZ. If they privatized, they got everything they got illegal then there is a state's attorney's office and for them as there is for Mr. of Istrian Mayor Jakovčić who at the time of privatisation assigned himself only one village so there was little for him, so he took the church beams for his wine cellar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58857	My colleagues. I'm asking you nicely. Please don't throw your colleagues out of place. The next is SDP's club, a fellow representative of the Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58858	Dear vice presidents, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I call for us to return to this serious topic, but to bring the debate down within the framework of the arguments, not to discuss who took whose beams to build the wine cellar. I think the topic is much more serious because it is the daily life of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it is every day that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, within the framework of local self-government, meet the greatest part of their needs and satisfy the greatest part of these needs. And what is the relationship or trust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia against some levels of government? I will present to you today the data from the survey conducted by the PULS agency from 3rd to 8.3rd, the topic was "Decentralisation and direct selection of mayors as determinations of the abstinence of citizens". One of the questions was trust in certain levels of government and the question is this: "No matter which party in power currently at which one of these levels of government you have more confidence in?". The results are as follows. In the state government, 29% of citizens have confidence, 15.3%, 38.1%, 3.8%, and 13.8%, respectively. If we add up the county and city government as the government of local self-government, then we get the following information. So in local self-government, 53.4% of citizens have confidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58859	I'm sorry, counselor, but I really need to warn the agents who are in the way of the debate. I am bound by the Rules of Procedure to provide you with the conditions for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58860	Thank you very much. So in local self-government, regardless of which party is in power in local self-government, 53.4% of citizens have confidence, and only 29% of citizens have confidence in state authorities, as well as whatever party is at the state level at government. These are the data that must wake us up to finally turn the story around and see with what potential, what opportunities, with which fiscal capacity there is a government that enjoys so much trust from citizens, and now that we look at it, then we come up with the following data. In 2001, for example, the total income of units of local and regional (regional) self-government was 9 billion 278 million of which were 5 billion 273 million tax revenues. This goes up to 2004 when the total income of local self-government units was 14 billion 821 million, but only 8 billion 978 million incomes, so income tax, tax cuts, profit taxes, property taxes and taxes on goods and services. The income tax that we are discussing here today and the profit tax account for only 54% of the total income of local self-government units in 2004 or I repeat just slightly less than nine billion kunas. If we talk about the total revenue of all the budgets then we can talk about that about 12, 13, 14% of the total income is the income of local self-government units, but if we strip the story, then it's below 10z% in relation to, or it's about 8.9% in relation to what the total income of the Central State Budget is. It is therefore the fiscal capacity with which local self-government units have such high confidence today, regardless of who is in power in the units of local self-government and regardless of all these crises of purchasing council members and all of what we have been talking about in the last few months. This tells us that we must convey not only the powers and tasks that we have done to these people who daily solve the problems of citizens in municipalities, cities and counties, but also the last amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government that came into force on 8 November 2005 but that we must enable them to do what the Constitution requires, that these powers that have been delegated to them and certain financial resources, certain fiscal revenues, to be able to solve these tasks and meet the needs of citizens. We're talking about two laws here today, and it's a big story about decentralisation, isn't it? Now, if we're going to be honest, then we should say it's '93. This year, not centralisation happened, but that there was an etatization because the state transferred to its property all or a large majority of the property that the municipalities had at the time owned by hospitals, from roads, from courts, from schools, all of it was not centralised founding rights, but the state signed up as the owner of these properties and those assets. The first step of decentralisation, if we are to be fair to ourselves and the Croatian public, took place on 1 July 2001. We will all agree that we are working in the local self-government that was insufficient, but then the government passed a law that passed the founding rights over certain institutions, but also part of the income tax passed on to local self-government units, and that is indeed the first step of decentralisation, it is small, it is insufficient, but it was the first step. Unfortunately, since then, local self-government units have no longer received any decentralised incomes by law, only from the Alignment Fund. So they didn't get tax revenues, they only got laws they couldn't apply because I'm asking you now what do we have from the law that came into force on 8 November last year? Can big cities run public roads? Can local self-government units take care of primary health care? We have an absurd that the only city and municipality in this country can't establish a home of health. It can be founded by a citizen, can be founded by a county, can be founded by a state, can be founded by a company, only a city cannot establish a home of health, and the Law on Local Self-Government states that the individuals of local self-government and their original jurisdiction is to care for primary health care. So how will he care if I can't even start a home of health. And let alone the law under which it would be decentralised or allocated to them a part of the funds from which they could care for primary health care. Likewise, we have defined by this law that large cities, conditionally said large cities, are those over 35,000 inhabitants and county headquarters take care of public roads. Can I take care of public roads? No, I don't. I can only worry for now about unclassified roads and unclassified roads to make the absurds bigger under the Law on Public Roads not public roads. Public roads are county roads, state roads, local roads and highways. Unclassified roads are not defined as public roads by public roads in general by the Law of Public Roads. Therefore, today we are only talking about one technical change, replacing taxes for taxes because if we want to talk about essential decentralisation in Croatia, then we cannot argue whether the budget will be less than 320 or 400 million because first of all it will not be in any shortfall since we have a billion kuna settlement fund. So anything that units of local self-government will earn more from the base of income tax will be less needed in the fund for alignment. So it's just a crossover from one item to another, and it's not decentralisation, it's not decentralisation. We're also talking about profit tax here today. We need to look at what European and world experiences are like. I will later discuss the methods for the distribution of income tax in the European Union. So, I ask you today to draw attention to not talking about decentralisation but talking about replacing taxes, that the total tax swap is in the amount, however, between 300 and 500 million, and that what will be replaced will certainly be less needs in the settlement fund because these units of local self-government will no longer have the right to claim from the settlement fund for those functions for which they are withdrawn from the alignment fund. Another danger and another stereotype that is trying to get through here and I think that someone is very skilled at trying to get under a decentralisation company into the Croatian public that is a conflict of local self-government units with Zagreb. Zagreb too has too little money for what it has in power. Therefore, any redistribution of taxes between Zagreb and any other city is to the detriment of local self-government. We must come to the fact that local self-government has, instead of the 14 billion so far, 25 to 30 billion kuna, that with current 9 billion tax money has double the amount of tax money because then we will come to what our goal is to have local self-government with 25% to 30% of the public income in the Republic of Croatia. And then local self-government will be able to respond to all those demands that citizens expect from it and on the other hand have such great confidence in local self-government. What worries me is the government's explanation. Look, the government doesn't say this isn't a good bill, especially profit tax. There is nothing written about profit tax but it is written that any change has an impact on the budget. Well, that's what we know. Well, we know that every law has an impact on the budget. But with regard to this second law, which is the Law on the financing of local self-government, the Government says that the Government estimates that that bill would violate the tax-sharing relations between the state and local and regional self-government established guidelines of the government's economic and fiscal policy for the period 2006/2008. the national budget projections for the same period, which means that there is no fiscal decentralisation in 2006/2008. If we're reading the government's argument. However, two passports are further said since the same guidelines that make it impossible to accept this law are the envisaged measures of tax reform, and then the government may change something in all of this, and even a complete inaccuracy has been subdued, untrue in this explanation where it is said that the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Local Self-Government and that the transfer of certain functions to lower levels will take place according to specific laws. That's incorrect. The Law on Local Self-Government states that the only transfer of power to issue building permits will be after a special law has been passed. Everything else should have been possible to consume on November 8, 2005, and by then the government should have passed all the laws, about 35, perhaps more that would have made it possible. And it's said to be thinking that the whole story will be decentralisationd. Now, if we really want to talk about decentralisation, then please don't talk about how 400-500 million kunas from the settlement fund are going directly to the units of local self-government, but let's finally talk about how we're going to find a way to get units of local self-government to the original five, six, seven billion kunas that they need. Of course you need not only in this part to make changes. We also need to make changes to the completely anarchically outdated tax system of local taxes. The communal fee to us is something that no longer corresponds to reality because it is not socially sensitive, because it is paid by square so whoever has a sneaker in the city centre pays the same price as the one who has a house surrounded by marble. This is what we think is wrong and that we should finally think and have the courage to replace the communal fee with something that is known in Europe in local self-government and that is property tax or property tax. So that's the same question as whether and when we're going to make such a step and change. As far as income tax is concerned, it is almost unquestionable, it belongs to all units of local self-government throughout Europe because it is bound to the place of residence and it is the easiest thing to do is to redistribute it. However, as far as profit tax is concerned, there is a whole series of options, a whole series of solutions. One solution is that the distribution of income tax is done in local self-government based on the number of employees at a specific location. Possible solution. Another possibility is that the distribution of income tax to local self-government units is carried out according to the number of inhabitants. It's another possible solution. There is a solution that income tax for local self-government units is done half in one way, half in another way. Therefore, according to the number of employees and according to the number of residents or, for example, there is a model as proposed here, mainly to make profit tax exclusive to the income of the state except in the units of local self-government to which the specific law applies. So we're talking about about about 4 and a half, 4 billion 588 million kuna profit income that was made last year. Unfortunately, we will all agree that if the economic policy measures act, the tax which will have the highest growth rate in the revenue side will not increase the rate is exactly the profit tax. Because the owners of the company will have an interest in doing their business effectively, making a profit, and of course, if they make a profit, they will have to pay a bigger tax on the profits. On the other hand, it's a very simple equation. If you have a higher profit, then you will, of course, go to optimise the costs, so you will optimise the labour costs as well. So you'll optimise and the cost of pay, which means that in the future we can expect income tax growth above the inflation rate only if the number of employees increases. And that's where we're limited. It's not an impossible size. So some company in Croatia can do business like Nestle does with $10 billion a year, but he can't hire 500 thousand people, right? So they're very limited here, which says that income tax will be one constant, constant growth we hope at inflation level while profit tax should grow significantly above that. How profits tax has been allocated in some countries in Europe. For example, 35% of the profit tax in Belgium belongs to the central level of government. I ask you to draw attention here to the efficiency of the company and what is it, what is the profit tax? You know, not these four and a half billion which is less than, less than, billions of euros. In Belgium, there are companies that have, in themselves, more than a billion euros in profits, and then there is a huge tax. Or, for example, 33% in Switzerland and it belongs to regional and 19% to the local level of this. Now imagine the city where Nestle is based. How much does this city earn 20% of the profit tax paid by Nestle last year's profits of $10 billion? Imagine what that is, what's the number? Most of the data suggests that there is almost no country in which part of the profit tax does not remain for local self-government units. It's just a question of what the mechanism is going to be to distribute it. What I want to draw attention to here is that the state has a negative impact on the tax revenue of local self-government units. Here's an example. The law of 0.0 has been passed. And we're all watching it from this position of the driver, the points, the license and everything. However, consumption tax that can be used up to 3% is the original income of local self-government units. So all of this is, and apparently less drinks have been drank over a period of 0.0, we've affected the reduction of the incomes of local self-government units. We had the law there that wouldn't have that effect on the state budget. And did we see how that affected the local budgets? Or, for example, you have the forgiveness of looking for some companies where the state disowns the claims of a company but also the share that is part of the local self-government unit. And to conclude, therefore, we support that these two laws go into second reading, but we also advocate to create a project of decentralisation of a state that will not lead to the replacement of taxes or tax swaps but will lead to units of local self-government having between 25% and 30% of income, public revenues in Croatia's unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58861	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58862	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would first correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Mršić who said: Zagreb has too little. Yes, colleague Mršić. Indeed, Zagreb has too little compared to many others, however 45% of the total public revenues intended for all local self-government units end up in the city of Zagreb. So half goes to the city of Zagreb, and only half to all other units of local self-government and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58863	Thank you very much. Another correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58864	Dear Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mrsic, said the first decentralisation was made in 2001 and since then the units of local self-government have not received any additional tax revenues. That still doesn't stand. For example, in 2004 and 2005, an additional distribution of income tax was made from state-level to municipalities, cities and county areas of special state care and mountain-mounted areas and streaming municipalities and from the part of income tax belonging to the state was made and the return of income taxes to citizens, taxpayers on income. Thus, part of the income tax from the state level was transferred to the local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58865	Thank you very much. My colleagues and I'm sorry, we didn't notice any of us at the president's table. [[Intruder: I checked in.]] I'm sorry. Here's the weird thing. We both missed it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58866	Madam President and I must correct Mr. Mr. Grić's quote. I understand that this is his worldview, but he stated this: in 1993 a deatisation took place in the Republic of Croatia. All right, all right. [[The intruders don't understand.]] The property was seized by municipalities and transferred to state property. That quote, of course, is not true. The ownership of real estate municipalities never existed. The municipalities were only users, only had the right to use real estate and the property was universal property, social property according to which if we take our Constitution and look at it, then we should really conclude according to constitutional provisions who is the heir, the legal heir to that property?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58867	Thank you very much. And if we haven't seen you. One piece of information for colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have expired time to report a ten-minute hearing. And the next one's the Independent Representatives' Club. A fellow representative, Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58868	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We will support, therefore, the Independent Club will support both the one and the other proposal of this law coming from the CNS, not because we believe that it is, that it solves all problems related to fiscal decentralisation, but because it is the first one as counterpart Radoš said, but an attempt to finally bring about fiscal decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. And I agree with my colleague from the ruling party that a detailed analysis of everything that makes fiscal decentralisation is needed. But also no one can deny the fact that it has been two years since the takeover of power and that there has really been plenty of time to make this thorough analysis and then propose a system law related to fiscal decentralisation, i.e. the laws better put forward which will in an optimal way adapt decentralisation. Therefore, not only the transfer of powers, the transfer of obligations to units of local and regional self-government, but the transfer of these powers and the transfer of financial or fiscal decentralisation, transfer and financial resources so that these commitments can finally be implemented at local levels. Therefore, the fundamental objective of the proposal for this law is to promote decentralisation and politic development by simplifying the tax system and more uniform distribution of total tax revenues. That's how I personally experience him, and that's how my colleagues from the Independent Club experience him. Croatia is indeed a highly centralised and metropolised state in every sense. Both in both political and financial and in economic, even cultural if you will, and this is particularly contributed by the current tax system. The headquarters of all large companies, financially strong companies are located from INA, HEP, Croatian Telecom, insurance houses, banks are located in the metropolis, here in Zagreb. That's where they pay the profit tax. Let's go back a little more than two years and remember the past parliamentary elections. So back to pre-election time. Today's state-level party pledged to reform the tax system, reduce taxes in the function of strengthening entrepreneurship, agriculture and domestic production, pledged financial decentralisation, evenly politic development of the Republic of Croatia. Let us remember that Croatia is not as strong as Zagreb, but as strong as its border areas are. Both I and we at the Independent Representatives' Club agree that Croatia is not as strong as the metropolis, but Croatia is as strong as the border areas, including the metropolis. However, today after a little over two years, where are we? We are still in position that Croatia is a fact, a centralized and metropolised state. The financial centralisation is best told by the data already presented for this speaker, which is that somewhere around 88% of the income remains to the central state, that about 6 to 7% of the income remains for other local regional self-government units except Zagreb and that the rest is somewhere around 6% here in Zagreb. In the City of Zagreb, the City of Zagreb generates incomes based on profit tax somewhere in total 1/5 as far as is achieved at the state level. The city of Zagreb has a gross social product that is twice the average in Croatia. It has a gross social product 4 to 5 times larger than Split. All Croatian counties generate 2 and a half billion original incomes. All counties in Croatia only 2 and a half billion original incomes. The VAT remained at 22% level, excluding truly rare exceptions. The tax reduction or reform of the tax system remains as we can see after almost two and a half years only a thought and verbal category that comes from representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We haven't moved here since the beginning, i.e. we haven't made a small step towards the Croatian public, the Croatian voters who voted for today's ruling option meet expectations, and about this part of fiscal decentralisation. The government didn't do it. There are no systematic solutions to ensure a balanced, uniform politic development of the Republic of Croatia. The negative trend of regional decomposition, backwardness, peripheralisation, marginalisation of border areas continued, today unfortunately even more visible than several years ago. For example, the economy of eastern Croatia is quite certain of collapse. Unemployment has reached over 30%. Average incomes from few employees are below the Croatian average. Agriculture's in the middle of a collapse. Incentives in agriculture are running late. Unsatisfactory peasants, we all have opportunities to read in the media, prepare to go to Zagreb to express our dissatisfaction for the first time. In such conditions, young people have no perspective in our border areas and are of course leaving or here in Zagreb. That's a fact. Just before we heard about 86 000 coming to Zagreb or the worse the variant goes abroad. It is obvious, therefore, that the Government, but not only this government and the previous government did not recognise the fundamental problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is that huge financial resources are being poured into the state register, and that only crumbs are left for local and regional governments to cover the basic needs of citizens. The decentralisation of powers, i.e. functions such as education, health or social, without proper fiscal decentralisation, is truly and only on the people's path: "My concern goes to another.". And how these decentralised powers will be exercised in education, in health care, we see only for example health care and hospital institutions in the county. The state, that's said more than once, and here for a parliamentary speaker, that the problem of county hospitals is the problem of regional self-government units, the problem of the county and that the state has no authority. But when the powers were transferred then we transferred power to the county level when we were talking about hospitals, but we didn't follow it or have not been accompanied by adequate financial resources. As a result of the government's passivity to deal seriously with this problem and the necessity of fiscal decentralisation today, we have a proposal for these two laws. Since it is, in fact, an incentive to system solutions, decentralisation and politistic development, in terms of simplifying the tax system, but also an even distribution of total tax revenues. The Independent Representatives' Club, once again, supports this proposal to amend and supplement the law. At the same time, we stress that at the current stage of economic development, a significantly more radical reform of the tax system is needed to provide local and regional self-government units with far greater income, and thus a fundamental condition for balanced and balanced development of all areas in the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, we recall the fact that the Republic of Croatia is split into 426, it seems to me 426, a municipality, 123 cities, 20 counties, that each of these units of local self-government and regional self-government is supported by a huge bureaucratic apparatus, that many units of local self-government cannot survive and that such a fragmented territorial structure is a huge financial burden, of course for both the state and the local and regional self-government units themselves. Unfortunately, however, Croatia does not have a clear regional policy today that would include regions or today's counties in line with the established standards and positive experiences of the European Union. Supporting the proposal to amend and supplement this law, the Independent Representatives Club asks the Croatian Government for a clear position in the future regionalisation of Croatia and for a serious approach in a thorough and systematic reform of the overall tax system, and in the capacity to ensure fair fiscal decentralisation for the surrounding regions, i.e. for units of local self-government and units of regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58869	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is the HNS club, a fellow representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58870	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And because of colleagues Cain, but also some others who have said that Croatian local self-government needs drastic and radical changes in terms of decentralisation, I promise now immediately to the pride that we will support these proposals when they finally submit them to the parliamentary procedure. We'll support everything just to finally get the IDS proposal in the process. So for the fourth time, what is the Croatian Parliament discussing at the proposal of the Croatian People's Party Club? We discussed this topic in January 2004, in June 2004, when we proposed financial decentralisation through amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. And then proposing an increase in the non-taxable part of income, i.e. wages, which we compensated for by increasing, we proposed to compensate by increasing the share of income tax. In June 2006, 2004, the Assembly discussed our proposal for a conclusion where we wanted the Government to solve the tax problem on profits in a way that it does not go to the metropolis where the company's registration, any metropolis, is not only Zagreb, but it goes towards the place of creation. One of the European models that Mršić obviously doesn't know exists because he didn't mention it. The government was four times against it, and now the government is against this proposal. But for the truth and for the truth and for the fact that these proposals in this House were not only rejected because of the government's opinion and only by the votes of HDZ representatives, but that both colleagues and colleagues from HSLS, HSP, National Minorities, the Serbian Democratic Independent Party, were not able to get a pass on the second reading. And there were no other and different proposals, better, more radical, more drastic. So I'm surprised to hear that part of the debate today when a more drastic step in decentralisation is again sought, but only in drastic debates, without drastic proposals. What does the government say about our proposal? That he must not accept it, as the Parliament established the projections of Croatia's budget 2006/2008. It's the only argument why the government doesn't accept our proposal. We've established a budget projection. So what? Does this mean that neither the Government will be allowed to change or redistribute the state budget any more by 2008 and give more money to local self-government for any lack of projection? Or are we the only ones who can't suggest it, and the government will be allowed to propose it? So the Parliament will first have to make a change to the budget projection, so that the government's bill can be accepted. Because any government proposal that is contrary to the projections as the Government writes, must not even come into the parliamentary procedure, we must not even discuss it just that the Government is proposing it, before... the budget. [[You don't understand.]] That's what the citizens are waiting for by 2008. But what we did in the meantime, or those who voted for it. We increased the untaxable part of the salary from 1.500,00 to 1.600,00 and pensions to 3.000,00 and to municipalities, cities and counties took 2% of the income. Reduced budgets 2% by increasing the non-taxable part of income decreased revenues to municipalities, cities and counties, and we did not increase their share of cookies. Whose money did the proposer give up? Not mine. Municipal, city and county. But we did something else for our colleagues and colleagues, and we did something else. The Waste Act in 2004 has been prescribed that funds for the financing of construction of buildings for the storage, use and disposal of other categories of waste are provided in the budget of the county, or the City of Zagreb. The funds for financing construction of municipal waste management buildings are provided in the county budget, i.e. the City of Zagreb. In the Law on Air Protection, cities and municipalities shall ensure from their budget the means of drawing up a plan of measures and implementing measures to reduce emissions from common sources of air pollution. The funds for financing the protection and improvement of air quality are also provided in the budget of the units of local self-government, quoting the provisions of the law. The Law on the Protection and Rescue of Local and Regional Self-Government Units under their rights and obligations set out in the Constitution and the Law regulate, plan, organise, finance and implement the protection and protection of rescue, the 2004 Act. The 2004 Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights for Compensation for the Labour of Members of the Commissions for the Protection of Patients' Rights, who are obliged to provide units of the district self-government with their budgets. Amendments and additions to the Law on Social Encouragement, financial resources for this construction are provided by local self-government units. The Nature Protection Act 2005, the funds for the work of a public institution and the pursuit of activities, are provided in particular from the state and budget of the City of Zagreb, the County and the municipalities. In the budget of the City of Zagreb, towns and municipalities, funds are provided for the protection of natural values declared by the county, i.e. the City of Zagreb. The State aid law, which provides State support within the meaning of this law, is among other units of local self-government. Amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, municipalities and the City are required to provide a copy of the lease contract to the local competent catastro for the purpose of keeping further records. Our bill of law has been rejected under which the state is allowed to finance capital investments in hospitals, health facilities. By law, or by amending the Law on Local Self-Government, we ordered the county to take over the issue of local and construction permits, we told them that the counties are taking over local and construction permits. All of this has been done since 2004 until today. Therefore, when discussing our proposal, do not forget. We are talking in Croatia about a fair society, we are talking in Croatia about the right and the possibility of an equal chance. Is it possible to say that local self-government has the same chance and that we are just if, for example, in Krapina County, per capita of total fiscal capacity amounts to 2 thousand kuna per year? If in Bjelovarsko-Bylogorje it is 2 thousand and 200 or in Virovitičko-Podravska 2 thousand and 2 kuna or in Požeko-Slavonska 2 thousand and 200. In Brodo-Posaviska 1,727,00, in Vukovar-Srijemska 1,857,00, in Međimurje 2,060,00 and the national average is 3.143.00. So how these units of local self-government are equal, equal. How citizens in these municipalities and cities are equal to the rest if per capita they have a fiscal income of a thousand kunas less than the national average or 4 thousand kunas less than those at the top. Isn't that where kindergartens aren't needed? Shouldn't school lunch be paid there? There's no need for public lighting to shine? You don't need to build water and sewers there? What's the consequence? Why is this a consequence? Because our tax system does not know the diversity of Croatia, the structure of the economy of entrepreneurship and agriculture. And all the counties I've listed for you are green counties. Agriculture where there is a green ridge, these are incomes, such is misery and misery in the budgets of those units of local self-government. We can criticize the mayors of the municipalities, we can criticize the mayors, we can say there are too many of them, so we can abolish them, so half of the municipalities can be abolished. Remove half of the cities if you think it is a solution, but the number of kilometers of unfalted roads will remain the same in Croatia. The number of children who do not have room in kindergartens will remain the same regardless of the number of cities. The cost of transporting children to school will still be too high. Public lighting will continue to shine only in the metropolis and not in villages when children leave school. The high school bus ticket will continue to be 15% of the mother's salary. 15% of my mother's salary for a high school kid. The children will continue to wear chalk and sponge instead of laptops and computers to school. It's not about them, it's not about local self-government, it's about us, about us in this House. Because it depends on us whether we create a system in Croatia where more than 8,000 councillors in local self-government will be able to acquire competent knowledge of the management of the resources that we have given them to manage, where they will be able to acquire knowledge and ability to do their job responsibly. It's about us and it's because we decide what they do, we give them authority. And in the end, it's about us and not about them because we decide how much money they have. We decide how much a parent will pay for kindergarten, whether in Velika Trgovišće, Kumrovec or Dubobam, Zagreb, Bjelovar, Rijeka or Pula. We decide how much the school snack will cost, how many citizens will pay for the transportation of garbage, how much local roads will be held, how much will the citizens pay for the municipal fee, how much will the transport of students pay, what will be the protection against the fires in the municipalities, whether public lighting will shine only in the metropolis and in the village, will we open up entrepreneurship zones, how many water lines and sewers in Croatia will we build and how many purifiers we have and how many final municipal waste dumps will we have? How many scholarships will our students receive from their municipalities and cities, how many sports and recreation facilities in villages, villages, municipalities and cities will we build? That's what we decide. The average Croatian family for these purposes pays 880 kuna for these purposes. There are also 480 municipalities, which have money, and unfortunately there are those where parents and families pay over a thousand kunas. Some day, the Croatian public had fun proposing an association that the untaxed part of your salary should be increased to 4 thousand 700 kuna and only 2 tax rates per income should be introduced. 15 and 25%. They told the gentlemen that the proposal was neutral for the state budget. It may be, but be assured it's disastrous for the municipalities, cities and counties' budgets. That the gentlemen once again suggested that here in Zagreb, on either side of Mark's square, someone debated, decided, and God forbid that someone else would get less money. It's easy, you know, with someone else's gong. Let these people come out with such suggestions and tell them to suggest we take their money. We didn't make a drastic proposal, we didn't make a revolutionary proposal. We didn't say we needed a revolution in local self-government to work again. We proposed a model and a step that in one budget year local self-government would get 640 million kuna more than it is now receiving. 640 million more because Mršić did not read the law well because our proposal suggests that the increase in the counties goes to the original revenues, not decentralised and by increasing those 10 originals to 18.6 does not reduce the right to withdraw counties from the decentralised fund. The law is complicated, so it needs to be calculated a little bit better. Yes, fellow Jarnjak, I am complicated because voters sent me here and paid me to criticise every bad move by the government and to constantly propose solutions for the benefit of citizens and voters. That's why I'm complicated and I'll be complicated for you as long as I'm here in the Parliament. That's why I'm here, that's my job. I'm an opposition representative. And you have the right to reject our proposals, that's your right, but you have no right not to solve any problems. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58871	Thank you very much. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we have, please, don't throw away. There are plates under the bench. Correction of the incorrect allegations, first reported fellow MP Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58872	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague Lesar. First, he said an association. It's not an association, but the Employers' Association suggested what you were talking about, which has special weight. And secondly, you said that the bad solution was to increase the untaxable part of both workers and pensioners. It's a good solution because it's better for individuals than for institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58873	Thank you very much. Next correction to an incorrect quote, colleague Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58874	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You would correct or supplement Mr. Lesar's allegations when he stated the obligations that... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58875	We understand that you want to complete, but you can only correct it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58876	It would correct, it would correct the allegations of counterparts, Lesar, when he cited all those obligations that the state through the powers had transferred to local self-government units. In fact, his thesis would be reduced to, they decentralized only the obligations of units of local self-government, but of course not the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58877	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, colleague Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58878	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In my very inspired speech, my colleague Lesar is afraid of being seduced by students in the Republic of Croatia, and it is known that their school bags are very heavy. And after this speech, I'm afraid they'll grab the computers from home and take their weak shoulders to school. Therefore, the incorrect assumption is that children will wear chalk and sponges to schools because they have not worn them until now, neither will the future. And they should have laptops and computers and as you said, both at schools and at home. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58879	Thank you very much, colleague. We have a registered representative on behalf of Club HSLS 2. The first is his colleague Kramarić, and the second is his colleague Chehok. I hope you'll share your time well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58880	Thank you, Madam Vice President, honoring government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The way things are going will be that the problem of reforming the local self-government is the squareness of each of our governments. And we need to be just as little and self-critical. Usually when there is no political party in those months before the elections, especially those who hold something to themselves, do not promise a radical reform of local self-government. And then when after the elections the power is formed then usually these reforms are given up elegantly. And that's the thing that finally we had the chance to do something, and unfortunately we didn't do it, and now we're actually going to be this obviously weighing on who's more or less guilty. But we have to admit that since '92, '93. In Croatia, there is not enough quantity, quite a mass of political will that would really be able to make a decent reform of local self-government. I'll just remind you somewhere between Christmas and New Year '92. We changed the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia and just to make those elections seem to me February 7th, '93. The year had just kept up with these new changes and then there were about 300 municipalities, 70th, 80th cities and only the county and the City of Zagreb did not change, there remained the same number. In the meantime, here by 2006 we are the number of municipalities by 100th grade if I am not wronged, the number of cities also did, and all the representatives who held to themselves is that in their mandate, it would be very good to be able to go to their base, with this can say to the old language to return from Mars to one municipality or to turn one municipality into a city and that is the fact and then there were people who warned that this number of municipalities, cities and counties is too heavy for the taxpayer of the Republic of Croatia, that these simply citizens are not able to serve in the right way, that we have a centralized and expensive state and it is almost zero of the premiums from which we are leaving and this very centralised state has just led to what we are really facing today what is called an unbalanced development of the Republic of Croatia and something there should be done. I still remember the thought of the government of Gotovina who was still out there not thinking at all politically written in the 1970s that Croatia cannot afford the luxury of having provinces, that it is therefore provincialized, and it is indeed like the thought of philosophers, poets, essayists who in some way hit what we need to deal with today. But we have also persistently, I say, promised, but when we came to the opportunity then we just gave up these promises and in some way we supported this fact that we have one Zagreb today, if you take all this and official statistics then you will see that in fact Zagreb, that is, on the rest of the Republic of Croatia stands important, actually abnormally much better. And what counterpart Cain was saying about these particular dangerous not only political, economic implications of the situation but also demographics, is that today we really have places that are almost empty by humans. It's not enough to... to give someone a place to be a municipality or to be a city rather than obviously have to make it possible with some tax solutions that can actually be lived there, can work and that all of this can be realized about what counterpart Lesar was talking about, that in fact that we do not know a few in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remember when the Prime Minister of Hungary, Mr Orban, visited Zagreb, visited Opatija, and visited Baranja and then... The conversation was said to have seen two Croatians, one rich, developed, European and one that was just terribly abandoned and apparently that something with these declarations, with these beautiful desires must actually start working, and this Law and this Bill in this context could be seen, we could only say that we also have to take over that part of the self-critic that we actually missed one possibility and yesterday there was one debate, a round table organised by the Committee on Local Self-Government where we agreed to, we abolished the County House, we avoided the possibility of direct choice of mayor, we did not reduce the number, or we did not stop the trend of increasing the number of municipalities and cities, and in fact on this fiscal decentralisation we did absolutely nothing or very little, or it was done so that in fact some of state's authority was dropped to the local level, but that this kind of decentralisation and ingenuity was not followed by this fiscal decation that we could be given to the fiscality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now I'm just going to say that obviously this existing situation that we have that needs to be changed and offered on behalf of the club several opportunities to distribute tax revenues and thus make some suggestions for their implementation. For example, the distribution of income tax should be considered according to the number of residents of the local unit. We make it the best and fairest approach since the distribution of income tax by population, the tax is evenly divided by the head of the population. The advantage of this system is that income from the income tax of local self-government units would be increased by around 600 million kuna, which would still ensure a more balanced development of all cities and municipalities of the Republic of Croatia regardless of the economic strength of smaller municipalities or larger cities. In this way, the distribution of income tax is simple and transparent as distribution is made according to data from the census of the state statistical office and provides local units with precise planning of revenue for the coming year. It should be said immediately that with this way the revenue in the City of Zagreb would be reduced by approximately 12% of the total budget revenues of the City of Zagreb at the moment, but the same must be done, I think... and certain reactions, but we really need to ask ourselves whether it is normal for Zagreb to really increase by 85,000 people last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that these are actually, these are movements that have no connection in fact, I think I'm afraid that it will actually come back very soon to Zagreb just as a boomerang because it simply won't be able to track one such inflow of population that doesn't rest on existing infrastructure, existing roads and everything that should actually... That, well it's almost that one Slavonski Brod that moved to Zagreb and now... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to ask which assumptions this administration would have to make, and which one must work to absorb it all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, local self-government in most European Union countries has kept a share in profit tax since local self-government attracts business entities, however, special incentives such as cheaper land for business purposes, free infrastructures and others. in entrepreneurship zones, so it is logical that it then realizes certain revenues based on these incentives and I can tell you in the European Union you have from Finland which I do not know is somewhere 7%, Denmark 12%, to the Czech Republic which has about 20 percent and even Portugal 33% and... a slightly less balanced approach would be shared according to the location of employment and if that possibility were fairer than the current system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This solution, however, promotes the idea of a greater distribution of income from income tax to local self-government units, along with an increase in employment, and therefore with slightly greater economic activity, but I fear that this slightly less transparent, slightly more difficult to apply, etc. But I certainly say, according to the location of employment, it would still be fairer than this existing system of what it has. But since my colleague Chehok will speak behind me who is very wise and carefully leading the city of Varazdin, he will indeed finish and give full access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58881	Thank you very much. Continuing on behalf of the HSLS Club, Representative Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58882	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Decentralization, however we determine it, is actually nothing more than a deconcentration of power. And it makes sense only and exclusively as a defocus of power from a state level to a lower level or to a regional, regional and local self-government. Or simply put, it actually means that citizens are articulating their interests and that they have instruments of power from local committees across municipalities and cities and regional self-government just to satisfy them. Therefore, if we approach such decentralisation in the European Union countries, although it should be fully open and told our citizens that there are countries today in Europe, EU member states that are more centralised than Croatia. So let us not be distracted from the idea that it is not Croatia when we look at the total state with the strongest central or centralist management system, there are others. So if we approach this as a deconcentration of power then we can actually say that the deconcentration of power can be carried out at three levels or in three areas. First of all, it's territorial and administrative decentralisation of power. Croatia is a state that is sickly centralised, everything is in hands or most of it is all in the hands of the government. The government has the powers of ethical interventionism in almost all areas but Croatia is also centralized in territorial terms precisely because it is metropolised. But I want to say here Zagreb is not rich, not citizens of Zagreb are rich. They are rich companies with headquarters in Zagreb. Citizens of Zagreb, I assure you, they live far worse than perhaps citizens in some smaller cities. And that's the problem with Zagreb. So if we were to do what we say as a club to the Minister of Finance and Government, not only to this one but also to the former, not to pay taxes on profits at the company headquarters then it would prove that in Zagreb they are rich and that refugee living companies and that they do not live refugee citizens but that they live mostly in dormitory, that they live in large conglomerates, that they live in Kozari boks, so in suburban areas which are otherwise in the history and otherwise other cities poor. Why INA that pollutes less or more Sisak pays taxes on Zagreb's profits instead of paying it to Sisak who pollutes it. There's no reasonable excuse for that. And there's no excuse to say in front of the director of the IRS that companies will have to run accounting and that it'll be harder for them. Let accounting be kept so that the profits achieved in Sisak are recorded in particular, that the profits achieved in I don't know Rijeka and that this is not paid in Zagreb. And that's what we've been talking about for five years and no government has the strength to say gentlemen it's not right that banks that earn enormous profits throughout Croatia to pay taxes on profits exclusively in Zagreb. Why? And that's what we're talking about when we're talking about demetropolization. No one is against Zagreb. We are, however, for the citizens of Zagreb to have more of it but they have no more than a statistical indicator in which most state and other companies have very high incomes, of which citizens have little or almost nothing. Another decentralisation is the decentralisation of funds or money. Contrary to fellow Lesar, their model is quite simple. This is not a complex model at all and complicated, so beat income tax and income tax or income tax to give to one level of government, profit tax to give to another level of government. And that's exactly what this proposal is about. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not discourage and demote local self-government units to earn a profit tax. However, we should still allow units of local self-government to have the legal right to determine profit tax because that would mean that someone who wants to invest from the outside or from the inside, a stranger or domestic in Koprivnica will invest perhaps in Varazdin. So, we'll compete then, Mršić and I and whether the profit tax will be two or three percent higher or smaller. This is how European countries work, so investors come precisely because local self-government offers them better tax conditions or offers them tax benefits. We would use this to virtually demote a local self-government that would say why I should attract, why should... Attractive investment when profit tax goes to the state anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, if we left income tax that would also mean building, now I will say the brightest example in Croatia, the free zone in Varazdin is not only worth the city of Varazdin since income tax will be paid per place of residence. Not only do the Varazdins or 50% of those citizens work in the area are not the Varazdins. There's a Međimurac, and that's why this Lesar proposal is dangerous. Therefore, we need to find a model that will balance the needs of local self-government that needs of course as much income as possible but also encourage instead of discourageing local self-government to build, attract, offer favourable conditions, offer conditions that will actually mean that there is some kind of competitive struggle or competitive position between different units of local self-government. You today practically as investors on the outside don't know why you'd rather go as far as taxes, not as far as other conditions of land, infrastructure, these conditions with the administration. But as far as taxes are concerned, you don't really care if you invest anywhere in southern Croatia, in the east of Croatia, in Varazdin, Međimurje or elsewhere because in fact the income tax is fixed, the income tax is equally and does not depend on the engagement of local self-government, depending solely on the tax on which local self-government does not practically live. And the third, of course, level of power deconcentration is a deconcentration of power. I see no reason for any Croatian government to have such strong instruments in its hands because it is perfectly natural for citizens to have everything they care about. For all their civic issues, they first call the mayor of the municipality or mayor. As mayor for five years, I can tell you that people are asking us from pensioners who are asking what's gonna happen to pensions and what's going to happen to social welfare? What about health care? What kind of hospitals are there going to be? So everything that belongs to even County especially what belongs to the state, people are asking us about it. So they do not address ministers first of all not to the Government and the Prime Minister, but to address their mayor first and foremost, of course, if he receives them and has contacts with them. I believe that most mayors still have such contacts in Croatia today. We therefore need to decentralisation powers which will not also be achieved by this proposal. For this it is necessary to create I would say more atmosphere in which there will be a synergy of the necessary synergy effect between the units of local self-government and the regional self-government and state. And finally, I want to tell my colleague Lesar, and in these circumstances, he has towns in Croatia where children do not wait for kindergarten. There are cities in Croatia where all roads are paved. There are cities in Croatia where eight factories are built. There are towns in Croatia where every elementary school has its own sports hall. That's like Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58883	I thank my colleague, Chehok. We have a series of corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is to correct the incorrect allegations of fellow MP Davorko Vidovic. Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58884	I am correcting, in my opinion, the incorrect assumption that Croatia is not the most centralised state in Europe, according to my knowledge of my colleague, the Czech Republic. According to some comparative studies that were done in the mid-90s on a sample of 80 countries in the world, Croatia can, or since, be compared to Salazar Portugal, Frank's Spain and some South American regimes, at a degree of centralised according to various criteria and parameters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58885	Thank you. Next correction of the incorrect quote by fellow MP Nikola Vuljanić. Here's my colleague Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58886	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd like to correct my colleague, Chehok, who said that he and his club have suggested the distribution of profit tax where local self-government should get part of that cake and so far they've proposed this to all governments, but then I don't understand why they voted against the solution in the last attempt when we proposed such a solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58887	A conditional correction of an incorrect assumption. Next correction of the incorrect quote by fellow MP Pero Kovacevic. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58888	Dear Madam Vice President, I am also correcting the same inaccuracies as the esteemed colleague of the Czech Republic, because he criticises both the former government and this government and says that he has repeatedly, or his club, suggested that legal regulations should be amended. Well, you've been in power before and now. Well, you should have spent it, not criticized it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58889	Thank you. Also a conditional correction. The next correction to the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58890	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would correct the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Chehok, when he says that the citizens of the city of Zagreb are not rich. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Some citizens of Zagreb are very rich. And most of them are poor. And the great reason for this poverty is seen precisely in the lack of the number of kindergartens in Zagreb. In the absence of a number of elementary schools, some of which work up to five shifts. In the last 5 years alone, a single school has been built in the city of Zagreb. Poverty is reflected in the lack of school sports facilities and halls. About the fact that in Zagreb still people, still some people go for water to go to the pump, outside, have no water supply. The sewers, the gas or the quality of the current, the asphalt in the street can only dream. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58891	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go, pal Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58892	Madam Vice-President, Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I was just saying what Mrs. Alenka just said. I'm glad we agree on that and take immediate advantage of what Kovacevic said. We weren't in power, so we couldn't handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58893	Thank you. My colleagues within the limits of breaking the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to stick to it. Correction of an incorrect quote by fellow MP Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58894	Thank you very much. The first quote I have to correct for the Parliament to discuss Lesar's proposal. The parliament is discussing a proposal from the Croatian People's Party. Secondly, I'm correcting the assumption that it's a bad suggestion that the profit tax is a state. We have put together this proposal on the basis of a debate by our colleague, Czechok, for the last time in our proposal on the distribution of income tax by place of work. Then it was good. It's bad now. And a third but most important correction. Local self-government doesn't live off a cut. In 2004, 5.1% of income was taxes. 5.1% in 2004. In 2006, 12% will cross. If that's anything to you, cut the cut in Varazdin, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58895	Thank you. The following correction to the incorrect allegations by fellow MP Kurtov. It's Kurt's turtle. Here's my colleague Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58896	Dear Vice President, counterpart Chehok says local self-government is not only satisfied with income tax but should also be made to be a tax on profits. I don't think that's true. In order for the local self-government to be very satisfied with the higher income tax, and this is the reason why the profit tax should be only one of the reasons why counterpart Chehok does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58897	Thank you. Next correction of the incorrect quote by fellow MP Zlatko Koračević. Here's your colleague, Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58898	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, I must correct my colleague, Chehok. It's supposed to be talking about the Varazdin Free Zone. The free zone of Varazdin is located in the municipality of Trnovec. So it's not in the area of the town of Varazdin, it's in the municipality of Trnovec and the joint project of the county, the municipality of Trnovec and the town of Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58899	Thank you. Next correction of an incorrect quote by fellow MP Srecko Ferenčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58900	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I want to correct Mr. Chehok's incorrect claim when he said that decentralisation of power is achieved by decentralisation of power. This is incorrect because his government, in which he has been participating today, has decentralised the powers of local self-government to care for schools and hospitals and has not given them any power but only problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58901	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, colleague Jozo Radoš reported. Here's my colleague, Radoš, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58902	Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the proposer of the Croatian People's Party, I would like to look back at some of the views that have been made here. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, it was said that by law 215 municipalities in the area of special state care and mountainous areas of the island municipality would lose revenue. That's not true. Based on this law, the Alignment Fund will have more revenue for those municipalities that will be within the fund's criteria. Therefore, anything that would possibly lose these municipalities will be able to make up for from the Balance Fund. Therefore, there are no municipalities that are particularly threatened, so those mentioned in this bill will not lose their resources. Mr. Mršić said that there was actually no increase here, but that it was just a transfer of funds from the Fund for Equalisation and other municipality revenues, which is also not true. The increase in income of local self-government units without the City of Zagreb is 635 million kuna. 320 million kuna at the expense of the state and 315 at the expense of the City of Zagreb, while the Balance Fund remains the same as it was. Therefore, it is a total increase in the cumulative income of local self-government units without the City of Zagreb. When it comes to the City of Zagreb, it is not about any antagonising of units of local self-government compared to the City of Zagreb. It is important to know that the City of Zagreb is making 67% of all profit tax revenues. The cities make 26%, all other cities 120 and something, and all 426 municipalities only 7% of all incomes for local self-government units. What should be said about this, but that it is a) unfair and b) is neither in the interest of the even development of the Republic of Croatia, so it is ultimately not in the interest of the City of Zagreb. Profit tax is obtained from companies that suffer from municipal infrastructure, transport infrastructure, polluting the environment of local self-government units, and this income from profit tax goes to the City of Zagreb or other headquarters of these companies. It is something that is absolutely not, not only is it not fair, but it also prevents normal functioning, building infrastructure, because companies are looking for infrastructure, and the profit tax that could finance this infrastructure does not go into their revenues, but it goes into the revenues of the City of Zagreb and, therefore, in the interest of the general interest of the even development of the Republic of Croatia, it is that this injustice is corrected. I repeat, 67% of all income from profit tax units of local self-government goes to the City of Zagreb and it can't be good. It is an attempt to make these apply to the right foundation, and it is not by any means antagonising the units of local self-government compared to the City of Zagreb. The HDZ advocates' club said full analysis, detailed analysis of income and expenditure of local self-government units and their competences should be carried out. Yeah, I should have done that, but it should have been done a long time ago. It has never happened in the Croatian Parliament that when anything was proposed, there was either a financial increase in power or the elimination of finance, which was the case of income tax or the rise in the limit of the non-taxable part, an analysis of what it actually means. This did not happen even when the local self-government law was last amended. We also increased powers, competencies, and that means the obligations of the local self-government unit a year ago, and we didn't bring down any income. Well, this is an opportunity for that injustice that has been done to make it right. These 615, 635 million kunas as difficult as our proposal may at least cover those obligations that we have placed in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government with the latest amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. So these are things that should certainly be kept in mind when it's said to be done in detail. If someone needs to make a detailed analysis, then it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not proposed in any of its laws so far equal treatment, reduction of obligations or jurisdiction and parallel account as much as it costs. Otherwise, this is one of the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. These charters say they must not be lowered, they must make commitments to the units of local self-government unless they are also made possible by incomes which will be able to meet those obligations. The Republic of Croatia when it ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government did not ratify that part, this article of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which is very important. If you don't, then of course the question is what you did when you just dropped jurisdiction or obligations, you just burdened the units of local self-government without giving them the opportunity at all to fulfill what you put them in their jurisdiction. So that's the question. In principle, I agree with it, but this is the way it was in Croatia when it came to local self-government. It was done in mind, and then it was seen whether it could be fixed or not. I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the HDZ Representatives' Club to carry out a detailed analysis and to compare with that position, that, in any change to the Law on Local Self-Government, increasing the obligations of units of local self-government, the European Charter should be implemented and the descent of the financial force so that these commitments can be met. Finally, one question that is often mentioned here, which is the issue of the number of units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, the Republic of Croatia is on the European average and it is not true that this number is enormously large. The data suggests, however, that part of the cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia cannot fulfil its basic and most basic functions, and that is not a small number. But it's casual to speak with such financial powers and the power of the local self-government units that they're too high. First, a financial allocation to local self-government units needs to be made, local self-government strengthened, a European average of about 25% of total revenues is reached, and only then can it be said when a large number of units of local self-government are seen. Otherwise, this number of units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia is somewhere on the world average, and the fact that it is even better in favour of this is the fact that it is a Croatian tradition in the 19th century and in the interwar period of the 30s, the Republic of Croatia had, of course, in those territorial ranges in which it was, approximately the same number of units of local self-government as it is today. But I repeat, that it could be claimed that this is too large a number should first increase the total power of all, and then these small units of local self-government, so when we do that, now this number of units of local self-government is too large, they're not self-sustainable. To speak without it, without that previous step is a flatulent speech. It also does not contribute to the development of local self-government units. It is not the idea for Croatia to concentrate, to lower powers and keep them at the next lower level. This is what happens in Croatia today. Only 3% of the total funds of the City of Zagreb are spent in the City of Zagreb. The same situation in Osijek, the same situation in Split, is the same situation in Rijeka. The true idea of local self-government says, lower powers as much as possible, and this means not to retain powers at lower levels, cities, but also to go to their constituent parts of the city district, and then of course to the development of surrounding areas. If we're talking about the province then it's not the idea for Osijek to be a center developed, we're also talking about Split, just as it is about Rijeka, and Zagora or Baranja to be undeveloped. The real idea of local self-government of even development means to develop all areas of the Republic of Croatia equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58903	I thank my colleague, Radosh. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. First, a fellow representative, Vlado Jelkovac, came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here's a colleague of Jelkovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58904	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Rados, commented on the HDZ club's position, said that areas of special state concern would not lose revenue. The HNS proposal, if I read it well, shows that revenue will be reduced from the base of income tax to units of special state care and areas of special state care. So far, they have achieved 34% of income income from income tax plus 56% of the country's share, totaling 90%. And according to a new proposal, the local self-government unit in the field of special state care would receive 71% of income tax. So 19% less.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58905	Thank you. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, counterpart Majdenic reported. Here you go, fellow Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58906	Dear Vice President, my colleague Rados said that the code, in fact, said that we said on behalf of the club that one comprehensive analysis should be made. That's not true, it's not said. It was said that the promoter had not done a detailed analysis. The promoter didn't take into account a few important things. And that's why this one, that these bill proposals are unarranged. And the government has its own analyses that are accurate and based on its analysis it does.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58907	Thank you. The next one for correcting the incorrect allegations came from Mrs. Solic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58908	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, I'd like to correct one of the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Radosh. When he said in his debate that the city districts of Zagreb spend only 3% of the profits that are in the City of Zagreb. Dear colleague, they don't spend a quarter or 3%, unfortunately. I'll just tell you an example from the 4th Bezovica. That this quarter has 11000 and 500 inhabitants, that it has 20% water supply coverage, that it has a drain coverage of 0, that there are only two primary schools that work on three tours, that these primary schools are in derutical condition. Also in this year, by creating a holding company in the City of Zagreb to sort roads, they did not enter the programme of Zagreb to reflect. Third thing, that local road...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58909	Comrade Solic, thank you very much. Time. And this isn't a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58910	It's true and it's the right condition...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58911	I believe you, but it's not a correction to an incorrect assumption. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh. Here's your colleague, Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58912	A colleague, Šolić, injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure for reporting for correction of an incorrect quote, and she didn't do it, she just repeated what I said, which I actually agree with. The city districts of Zagreb spend some 200 million kuna. And the total budget of the City of Zagreb is about 6 billion and 600 million kuna, which makes up about 3% plus, minus something. And all these problems she was talking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58913	Thank you, fellow Radosh. Would you like to have a cup of coffee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58914	...to give greater authority to the city districts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58915	Comrade Radosh, thank you very much. Next, we continue the debate. Next up for debate, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58916	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. I will speak in the first part on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club, and in the second part will Mr Tonci Tadic. The Croatian party's club welcomes the emergence and discussion of these two legislative proposals by the HNS Club, as a contribution to the opening of the debate on the necessity of full reform of the Croatian Tax System on the one hand. On the other hand, the need to review the territorial structure of local self-government in Croatia. Because these two most important factors cover both these legislative proposals and the future of local self-government, i.e. its development and state-level functioning. First, when it comes to the tax system, it is important to say that the current structure, i.e. the current tax system of the Republic of Croatia, is unfortunately only for the purpose of filling both the state budget and the budget of the county, cities and municipalities, and for the future of Croatia it is important that the tax system is an important factor, i.e. an essential incentive for development and new employment. Second, as far as local self-government is concerned. We to this day, meaning since '92. To date, we haven't produced a single full analysis of how much money was spent to finance local self-government and how it actually works. According to some data, 30% of municipalities and cities are essentially themselves. All the income they collect in one way or another, they spend on salaries both the mayor and the employees within that city and these municipalities and normally that such a city, such a municipality does not work at all because there are no funds from which it could do something that is the most important issue and which is in the interest of Croatian citizens who live there. So, first of all, it's important, and we're asking the government, first of all, that for the second reading, or she will come out with these legal proposals herself, that this whole analysis of the functioning of local self-government is finally made. Because the number of municipalities, cities and counties speaks enough about it, and on the other hand normally it is necessary to change the current tax system, because it is clear to everyone that many parts of Croatia are developing unevenly compared to other parts. And how can that be fixed? It can only be repaired through these two most important, key factors, which is through the new tax system of the Republic of Croatia and the new territorial structure of local self-government. Then it's important to rule of business, so money needs to follow jobs, and that means if you know what the municipalities, the city, the county, what they're going to do then it has to do and then in that part you have to secure that part of the funding. Therefore, we cannot talk about a new redistribution if it means a new redistribution of how it is a profit tax and income tax, if we don't put things in the right place first, and this is the new overall structure of the local self-government that will be in the function of Croatian citizens and then this part of the business whether these are purely from the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities, whether these are the jobs that the state has carried over in one or another way to the level of municipalities and cities, then it is necessary to regulate this part of the funding. Because at this point in time, if we had adopted these legislative proposals in this form, we would not have resolved these two most important issues again, which is the reform of the tax system of state and reform, i.e. the territorial structure of local self-government to the extent of Croatian citizens. Because by reading and analysing it, it is visible that here it has been warned that there is a lack of these legal proposals which primarily refer to the next fact. It is true that the state budget would lose to these proposals somewhere around 408.3 million kunas of revenue. But it is also true that no one has mentioned today, which is the scale of the grey economy in Croatia, that the grey economy in Croatia consumes from 11 billion kuna and even 15 billion kuna annually. In this part of the grey economy which, which means these are funds that would not only belong to the state budget to be collected but would also belong to the budgets of the county, cities and municipalities, these are those reserves where the functioning of the rule of law must be established and the principle of rule of law can then be achieved in the framework of these overall reforms and see how to distribute these funds. It is also true that the amount of inadequacy in order to make the amount of the balancing position for decentralised functions would be reduced by around 185 million kuna. There is also a question that 215 municipalities and cities in the field of state care and mountainous areas under the proposed law would lose in the distribution of income tax somewhere around 152 million kuna, which would require an amendment to the meaning of other laws, a law relating to the area of public care. In addition, in the context of the application of such legal proposals, municipalities and cities on islands under the proposed law could lose about 46.9 million kuna, as according to the applicable law, the state has made its part of the income tax on islands and, if so, those municipalities are signatories of the agreement on joint financing of capital projects of interest for the development of the island, while this bill does not regulate it. Since many investments are under way, the question arises as to who would continue their funding and from which sources. We must also say on behalf of the club that there remains an unresolved question of who, instead of the state, will pay back more paid taxes on income to citizens in the area of special state care, which is the basis of the law, we know that this is regulated by the Law on the implementation of the state budget either in 2004 and 2005, and in 2005, this amounts to something like 442 million kuna in 2005. It is also doubtful further, according to the bill, that I can even say an unresolved question, to whom the 1% share in income tax for the decentralised function of firefighting in units that have not taken over and that is somewhere in the amount of 67.7 million kuna. So all of this is saying that we can support in the first reading of these legislative proposals, but we will not have systematic and effective solutions unless we look at this from the point of view of the need to review the functioning of municipalities, cities and counties, that they are not purpose for themselves, and about 30% of it is unfortunately for ourselves because all the income they collect for employees' salaries. And the other thing is important, so tax system reform on the one hand, and on the other hand, curbing the gray economy. That's it, Mr. Tonchi Tadic will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58917	I thank Mr Kovacevic who spoke on behalf of the HSP club. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague of Kosha Chichin-Shain's. Here you go, Mrs. Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58918	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here I would just...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58919	My colleagues, Cicin-Sain, forgive me, my colleague Tadic, is continuing the debate on behalf of the HSP club, after that. We've got you in writing so you'll get your turn. Here's a colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58920	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen of the Ministry. In 2001, when the Law on the financing of local self-government of the HSP club was passed, it warned of the unsustainability of the existing system. We then warned that the whole system was actually set entirely contrary to the spirit of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and here I want to warn just that part. I would remind myself of this important charter that the Croatian Parliament ratified in the mid-90s, which is often forgotten despite the fact that it is the basis for such discussions. I'll remind you of one key sentence from it, and that's the definition of what local self-government is. Local self-government is the right and ability of the local community to take over part of public affairs that it can take over. I repeat, the emphasis is on this one that can take over. Unfortunately, in 2001, in the Law on the financing of local self-government, the burden of financing one-fifth of the cost of health and education was passed. At the same time, there was no adequate distribution and tax burden. Practically, one large part of the tax burden is hidden from the state budget and transferred to local self-government. At the same time, the IMF was told that the budgetary burden was lower, which must have been only for the state part of the tax burden, while the one at the local level remained the same. So when we talk about all these tax reforms, and this is one of the tax reforms, we must always keep in mind whether at the end of the ballad for Croatian citizens, the tax burden remains the same or decreases. No matter what the tax procedure is and what the tax split is. Nothing to do with this model that's here suggested doesn't aliminate us from the situation that some local self-government after this introduces its own cuts and that the whole thing ultimately costs more. Secondly, by transferring part of the tax burden and tax obligations of funding to local self-government, a bear service has actually been done not only to a large number of municipalities but also to Croatian citizens living in poorer municipalities. Since 2001, the standard of education and health depends, in fact, on the economic power of the municipality and on the wealth of its budget, which, ladies and gentlemen, is unconstitutional and that is what we warned about then. Education and health care must be equally financed regardless of which municipality, how rich, how many employees there are, how many economic operators there are, because these are the rights which the Croatian Constitution guarantees equally and equally for all in Croatia. Everyone must have the same right to health care and equal opportunities for schooling their children. And that's why it would be best if those parts of the municipal and county budgets didn't exist at all, but that it was all under the state register. If anything besides that, he still wants to finance something from his municipal or county or city registers. But the standard has to be guaranteed by the state and it's completely wrong. And that's where we actually came up with the key problem, and that's the same thing I warned in 2001 that local self-government should be given the opportunity to choose which of the public functions it can finance. In other words, which can be financed additionally in view of the tax available. In order not to give municipalities burdens that cannot be financed without being able to settle taxes again, because taxes cannot be taxed or the possibility of taking taxes is small again, or it would question the standard of citizens and business of the firm in the area in question. It is true that a part of the municipalities truly purpose themselves and that they actually survive mostly on the balances provided by the Ministry of Finance. One part of the municipalities, let's be honest, strive in the front row to take advantage of the constitutional possibility of spatial planning, trade in terrains and arrangement of space. But the fact is, in the same way, that all these years, no one has ever really done a study of how many Croats ultimately cost this system of local self-government. And I think it would be time to finally start talking about it. In this sense, this proposal by a colleague from the HNS Club is a good series of guides to start talking about it at all and to see if all this really makes sense in the way it is set up now. The model proposed here for balancing is nothing less complicated than an existing model. In 2001, the legal proposal listed so many formulas that I compared all the formulas to the formula for calculating the number of rabbits on the hunting grounds using sinus angle under which the rabbit jumps. These balancing formulas that were then offered were only slightly simpler than those formulas for calculating the number of rabbits on hunting grounds. And these aren't any better now either. So Croatia definitely needs a transparent tax system with a transparent balancing system and with a clear tax logic. Croatia needs a definitely decentralised tax system, but any decentralisation, and this is actually a tax experiment, and what needs to be feared is always tax experiments that do not answer all the questions that are being asked. Of course, this model offered by HNS colleagues refers in fact to the fact that the profit tax remains state and that the income tax procedure is modelled to make the municipality's citizens more equal. It's okay, but the problem is what to do after that with cuts, how municipalities will react to it all together when it comes to cuts. Then, an equally important question that the type of economy is really instigating. Do we encourage work-intense with a number of employees, with a higher rate of income tax procedure or do something quite the opposite. What about areas of special concern, islands and mountain-mounted areas. What about the support of economic operators in these areas and what we will bring all this together in connection with the European Regulation, i.e. the European Union's support map. All in all, the initiative of a colleague from the HNS is as good as the initiative and the start of a debate on this. But it's very bold for a club to do that. I think it was primarily the job of the Croatian government to consider whether this system is good, to do a study that it did not do, to propose solutions that it did not do. And that's why it's good for the Parliament to discuss it at least this way. In this sense, we welcome as a good initiative this Bill of Law colleagues from the HNS club, but we also call on the Croatian government to start dealing with this really complex problem of funding local self-government rather than letting the system continue to flow and take place in the same way as it has so far. It's not responsible behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58921	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. She's the first member of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58922	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I am correcting the quote of my colleagues, Kovacevic, but I am also speaking to my colleagues, Tonchi Tadic. In fact, municipalities and cities in areas of special state care and municipalities and cities that have mountain-mounted status will not lose anything, as counterpart Kovacevic said for one reason, because the number of such municipalities will be significantly reduced by redistributing such profits and in the midst of this, the identical mass will be divided into a significantly smaller number of municipalities. So if we now have these 215 municipalities of this kind of alignment, the number of municipalities is going to fall to 100, so the same mass is going to be divided into a smaller number of municipalities, which is actually going to get the municipalities more, not less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58923	Thank you very much. Next up is a colleague of Vuljanic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58924	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would correct co-worker Kovacevic's allegations that the overall system of local self-government needs first, and then to discuss taxes that would finance the local self-government system. Something similar is said by counterpart Tadic. That's just not true. Each time it moves one step, one step, one step. These attempts to suddenly implement a complete revolution are actually attempts to make nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58925	Thank you very much. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58926	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleague Vuljanic and colleagues correct our opinion, so we are looking for a comprehensive analysis to go into it, not like you with a throat in strawberries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58927	... Next up is my colleague Šišljagic. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58928	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect allegation of one, although my colleague Kovacevic made more, indeed more incorrect allegations, referring in fact to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which she had given in the attachment to the proposal of these two laws, but these data are certainly not accurate, and it is not the correct information that Kovačević would have less income from 408 million kuna based on the application of these two laws. It is true that the state would pay less than 320 million kuna, and that is the exact data with a number of incorrect data in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I corrected this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58929	Thank you very much. He's a colleague of Markovanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58930	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I have to correct my colleague, Peru Kovacevic, because he said that 60% of the cities and municipalities are their own purpose, 60. If that were so, we would have had it again, if it hadn't been for one great city of Zagreb, the whole Zagreb County has been since '90. Until '93. was in the City of Zagreb, we would have an even more drastic example than we pointed out today. Furthermore, in a series of these small municipalities, so many infrastructures have been built to surprise them. A little bit of an analysis of that, so you'll see if these commissioners are fighting for their community, that they've also made business zones, went everywhere ordinary residents couldn't. Furthermore, I still wanted to correct the incorrect allegations of a colleague, Tadic, who said that small municipalities must have that purpose to sell out the land. So I assure you, counterpart Tadic, that they belonged to large cities, that these great cities would also sell out that land. I wrote it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58931	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58932	Well, Madam Vice President, dear colleague Markovanovic hurt Article 209 because I didn't say 60%, I said about 30% that the right results would only come when the analysis is carried out, so you can't correct me for not saying so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58933	Thank you very much. He's a colleague of Kapraljevic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58934	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Pero Kovacevic said that this bill would make the area of special state care lose 150 million, and that islands would lose about 46 million kuna, and Mr. Tadic said this would lose the cut. Not true, none of these items are covered by this Law. Although all of what they had so far and remains so explained, you should have read the materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58935	My colleague Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58936	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would correct my colleague, Tonci Tadic, who is saying in his presentation that a large part of the burden on health and education has been transferred to local self-government units, so he said that the standard of health and education, I will look here at health care, depending on the wealth of the municipality which is not true, health is financed from the contractual relationship with the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and from decentralised functions which are once again the funds of the budget, and unfortunately the units of local self-government, i.e. municipalities participate in that nothing or very little, and certainly should participate more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58937	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Madam Representative and Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of course, we thank everyone who has already taken part in the debate, I think that the debate shows that this should be done and there is obviously a feeling among all MPs that the distribution of funds between the state and local and regional self-government is unfair and that it cannot be done at local and regional level in this way with this kind of distribution of funds and we are actually discussing how it would be best and most smart to do it and whether, with one move, it can solve everything with one move. You can't. Of course you can't take care of everything with one move. There are at least three reforms and probably all three should be the subject of our thinking and discussion and ultimately and realised. One is the reform of the state administration. The state administration certainly needs to be reformed, not only do we all know that, but even the whole of Europe knows it and always mention it, but we certainly know it much better because we have the most experience with it. The second is the reform of local and regional self-government, the same should be the subject of our discussions and very likely, as many colleagues have mentioned, should enter into reforms here. And the third is what we are discussing today, which is a reform of the funding of local and regional self-government. That's our theme. And we didn't have ambition, and I think it would be unserious to have ambition to solve all the problems with one or two legal proposals. But we have ambition and there is potential in these two legislative proposals to solve one of those three problems in our opinion vital, very important, at this point the question of survival is actually people where they live, so from education, health care to infrastructure, and that's the reform of funding for local and regional self-government. One of the things that speaks in favor of this proposal and the debate on this particular subject and not the other two topics is that it can be done now. We all know that the topic mentioned here is the reform of local and regional self-government, so as much as we have, whether we have too much or too little, whether we need to run an analysis or not of the municipalities and cities. Some hard ones we have, some hard ones we don't have. We all know that no government will engage in that reform in the second part of its mandate, even if it believes it should and would be good. He won't let himself because it's too sensitive. But this, the reform of funding for local and regional self-government, is something that has nothing to do with the moment in office. To remind a proposal of what he used to say, I think colleague Kramarić remembers all of this when the end of the term is usually so said, but like many things that are usually said, it is not true. The HNS remembered this at the beginning of the mandate and last and this, it has already proposed once in the procedure, now proposes again in the procedure but unlike some other laws relating to the reform of local and regional self-government, this reform of funding for local and regional self-government is not in this regard. It is very sensitive, but it is not sensitive for a moment in the mandate of a government when it is proposed because it is simply good for everyone. It's good for the citizens because they're dropping money to a local level. It has been mentioned here several times that it is also according to the European Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government, according to common sense, according to justice. I must underline once again that it is not only according to these criteria but also according to the current provision of the Croatian Constitution. On the proposal of the CNS in the last term, we have introduced into the Constitution a provision under which it is anti-constitutional to decentralisation powers without decentralisation of funds. Therefore, it is in line with the Croatian Constitution that everything that is brought down to the regional or local, local and municipal, level as authority, as an obligation to do without being sent down and the funds. What is the objective, why is such a reformed model of funding proposed? Well, the goal is ultimately what I believe to be our goal and the goal is to achieve a situation in which we will have a fair society. This may be the most important goal that Croatia and its all forms of government must have before their eyes in the next period. The feeling and fact of the injustice that exists in Croatian society is growing and is becoming almost an obstacle to further development. Just a little illustration. According to Croatian Chamber of Commerce, gross social product per capita in the city of Zagreb is 23 thousand dollars and a few kilometers away in Sisak-Moslavina County is something below a thousand and $200 per capita per year. It's not good for anyone. It's unsustainable. Some of the colleagues here have already mentioned, unsustainable for the city of Zagreb. 40% of all schools in Croatia that have three-way courses, which is absolutely the worst way of education in all studies and always gives the worst results in standardized tests for high school students and primary school students, 40% of all schools that have three-way classes is in the city of Zagreb. Therefore, it obviously cannot be in the interest of the city of Zagreb that the model of funding on the one hand by local and regional self-government and the relationship of that funding and state financing from tax, to stimulate the concentration of the population in the city of Zagreb, because the fact that you have at one center 23 thousand dollars per capita per year as income registered by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and on the other hand you have a thousand 200 is not just a question of how much local and regional self-government can take from it. It's a question and then what quality schools you have, what quality kindergartens you have, what quality public transportation you have, what sewers you have, what roads you have. So the quality of life is dramatically different. Our belief in the HNS Club is that Croatia needs three decentralisations. One is the decentralisation of funds, decentralisation of powers and decentralisation of knowledge. No one talked about it because it is obviously considered the least interesting knowledge but no decentralisation will work well if it is not followed by all three elements. If these are development agencies, if they're institutes, what kind of form it should be taken. We should have the same, it's the subject of our debate. But I'm mentioning so we don't forget. And finally, as far as the mountain-mounted areas are concerned, island municipalities, border municipalities. To remind those who have not been and sat in this House in this term. In the last term of office of the last government, it was HNS who fought against very strong resistances sincerely for the specific and additional financing of mountain and mountainous, island and border municipalities because it advocates a uniform development of Croatia. So it was HNS who insisted on that funding model. But I must warn you, in time, we're going to have to change that and make a unique model of funding. Make a unique model of funding because this is what the European Union is asking us to do. And we in the negotiations, at the end of the negotiations, will have to have a unique model of funding, and that is why it is so important for us to strengthen the Harmonisation Fund and thus make up for what we will need to change through reforms. Please keep that in mind. This is certainly the first step and, in our opinion, significant and, of course, will prove inevitable regardless of what happened at the end of this debate, inevitable in this reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58939	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58940	Dear Mr. Vice President Pusic said it would be better for all units of local self-government with these bill proposals, which is not true. Therefore, less developed units of local administrations, local administrations and self-government will achieve fewer funds and will not benefit at all. So it won't be the same. For what? Because they're less developed. So they have fewer employees. They have lower personal incomes. Their economy is in a worse position. Real estate tax will also be very low in those because there are no, because their small values are real estate and small is mostly traffic. Therefore, units of local administrations less developed with these laws are placed in an unequal inferior position.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58941	Thank you. And as the last Here are the injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Šišljagic. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58942	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to appeal to Article 209 concerning 210, 211, 212. This isn't the only example. I, I'm sorry, but I didn't realize this was a correction to an incorrect assumption. This is a statement of opinion. Not a correction to an incorrect quote. So a colleague served herself, a colleague used the correcting of an incorrect quote and did not correct the incorrect quote but expressed her opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58943	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58944	This was the correction of an incorrect quote because in the proposal for an explanation, the applicant also writes that the less developed units of local self-government will have almost a slight increase in resources. So over, almost nothing gets by this law. And it is also stated that then, that the state will have the opportunity to help these units and the question is how is it that when the state's reduced funds? So the funds have been cut. This is an abuse of correcting an incorrect quote or a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58945	My colleagues and colleagues. We can do this until we're unconscious. You know, you're also witnessing that under the firm, correcting incorrect allegations is spoken in this assembly whenever anyone is willing and whatever they want. It can be interrupted, but it has to be decided when you break up, you know? Since many have said so I will, let's not say misused but actually they used that institute unjustly then the question arises when to start and it's always on the border is it the correcting of an incorrect quote or is it just a replica? How did I take the criterion that I would not deny it to anyone is to level the criteria, so everyone who holds the presidency in the Assembly should have the same criteria, and we will only have them if we specify in the Rules of Procedure what is it we are talking about? Everyone has an interpretation. So please don't waste any time on that until the moment when the Assembly presidency will probably start or something to establish the criteria. And now the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58946	I will not waste much time, Mr. Vice President, but I think that the injured and truly injured Rules of Procedure have been, because my violation of the Rules of Procedure corresponds to the violation of the Rules of Procedure again, and I think that you, as vice president of the Croatian Parliament, should have rightly acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58947	You're not here to teach me how to lead a session of the Parliament. It's my right while I'm sitting here. And you, Mr. Shislagic, are also raising that plate at any moment, and you are actually leading to further complications about running a session of the Parliament. You said what you had to say. I think the institute used to correct an incorrect quote isn't always correct, but since it's my style of leading so far we'll tolerate it. Once we agree that we will no longer tolerate it, then we will not tolerate it. There's still Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. It's interesting how we here, back a few days, discuss tax revenues or laws that are related to profit and income. We suggest it in the debate segmentally. The HSS thus suggested that we try to protect craftsmen so as not to have the necessary double bookkeeping or double accounting if they only have one diver. Or we wanted to actually through changes to profit tax laws to protect the peasants. If it has 100 acres of land it must already run accounting or have a farm of milk cows. Through amendments to the Law, the representative Kramarić advocates higher education and seeks deductions for study costs, and this is also interesting. The HNS here is considering local self-government and regional self-government and is proposing a redistribution of the tax cake. And the one who should most suggest that doesn't do anything right now. Because the government doesn't propose anything, and promises for tax reform and changes to the tax laws are from pre-election times. Of course, let's remind ourselves of that famous VAT law when it's said we'll definitely change it for less. And that doesn't change anything. Tax obligations continue to pay evenly for poor and wealthy citizens, and the highest tax is the VAT which we all pay every day equally regardless of how much we receive and whether we buy a car, food or supplies for children. Most of all, we collect it on imports, because Croatia is definitely a still-oriented import country and I am not happy about yesterday's statement by the finance minister who says we collected a VAT of more than 20%. This means that we have imported more foreign goods into Croatia. As a result, it is certain that society is growing into the poor and extremely rich. The middle layer disappears, as well as the state and municipalities, the county as well as the citizens to survive are increasingly in debt on a daily basis. One and the other are measured in euro, and such a situation binds the hands of each government, which would potentially be more favourable to the course policy to help exporters and production. And if this law were to be passed here in Parliament, I estimate that the odds of him passing the problem remain the same. The state makes too little, and it takes too much, spends too much. In decentralisation and fairer distribution of the tax cake, we will not accept even the small corrections provided for by the amendments to these laws. After this redistribution, eventually if citizens are accepted and entrepreneurs will say it is not sewn, but their necks will not change because we still have the same problem. The problem of Croatia is that it does not realise the growth rate between 6% and 8% but remains at the growth rate of the social gross product of 4%. The unemployment rate will probably not change, and pensions will grow further away from the average salary. The municipalities and citizens will be somewhat more equal, but still poor and without any more serious development potential. The state will continue to spend on infrastructure, as it is easily raised to voters, while investment in production and employment and export needs to be more creative and perhaps worth more. Countys, municipalities and cities will fight for crumbs through the redistribution of tax cakes, while the cake is actually cake in capital investments by gentlemen and transfers that are related to capital investments that have 15 billion. We all know that the capital investments in Croatia bear 15 billion, and 15 billion and 90 million kuna are total of all tax revenues that enter the income budget, so there is even tax revenue from real estate sales. So that's equal size. Tax revenues and capital transfers. How they are deployed and how they act on the economy, how they operate on infrastructure, education, health care depends on their redistribution. With these amendments to the law, we're actually trying to move several hundred million kunas. However, capital investments depend on good transport connections, depending on how much we invest in roads, railways, and finally also in airports, water, gas, sewerage, schools, kindergartens, and in this way we will have a direct but indirect impact on the increase of tax revenues on investment in employment, and in large part we will change the situation precisely in municipalities, cities and counties. Any changes to this poor municipality and county law will make them richer, but they will continue to be poorer. They will not be able to accept the necessary development challenges. What can the municipality do if we increase its original income from 2 million to 2 and a half million kuna or county if we increase its original income from 15 to 16 million kuna, and we all know that in Croatia we have a lot of such municipalities and such counties. As the gap between rich and poor citizens increases further, the difference between regions that grab some strong steps forward is increasing. We also have those who have stopped and will have to give up the race. If we symbolize that with a race of cars, then some regions will drive a Ferrari and some won't have any gas, let alone for a car to get involved in that race. The social gross product per capita between developed and undeveloped crossed the 5-1 line when we speak in relations between regions. What is the next step actually for Croatia? Shall we declare the entire region undeveloped? That's where I suppose all the criteria could meet the region of Slavonia. If we had undeveloped provinces such as Kosovo in the former Yugoslavia, for example, whether we would re-apply the undeveloped region of Slavonia. I hope not because it is not necessary in Croatia. But there's a tax policy to be changed. But there is also a need to change the policy of capital transfers. However, it is also necessary to change the policy of state-owned enterprises. We, through the amendments to this law, have actually started to discuss the top of the ice santa, because other than the Government, similar water policy and state-owned companies, we are especially large in the HSS Club, and we expect changes here. An example of the INA, which has been drawing natural wealth, gas and oil in Podravina and Slavonia for decades, and all the profits achieved end in Zagreb. They don't even register cars locally, no matter how heavy their vehicles are destroying local roads. The municipalities and cities receive a symbolic rent that is paid on the dropper and is not increased significantly regardless of the huge increase in oil prices on the world market. In fact, these days, the government has announced that this situation will, of course, change to worse, to the harm of cities and municipalities that receive the rent. The plan is to increase the rent several times and increase the revenues that would move around 10% compared to the value of production to be paid into the state budget. Of course, this is not common in the European Union or in their practice. But the government will probably do it because it has enough hands in the Parliament as probably because of enough hands in the Parliament will not accept the amendments to these laws that we are discussing. So the government will remain incomes in this example, and the municipalities and cities of environmental pollution, and the construction and maintenance of the necessary infrastructure, and even for the exploitation of these natural resources that we are talking about. There is a paradoxical situation, and I know these examples, that settlements in certain municipalities located 2 kilometers to 5 kilometers from the gas station of these reserves do not have a gas network. And the gas network and the possibility of using gas in the household don't have just because the municipality's budget is poor, it doesn't allow for construction, and through alignment and through all grants from the state budget there's not enough money coming in. And finally, we expect tax changes, we expect reforms, we expect the government to fulfill its promises of reform, we do not expect it to give up its promised. We expect it not to continue to be pre-election-oriented, but to be oriented post-election, as elections cannot be won twice on the basis of the same promises. And until then, until the government wakes up, we accept the more valuable proposal, which is in this case the CNS whose proposal to amend the law at least partially improves the situation and that is why we at the HSS Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58949	Thank you very much. We have three corrections. The first is Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58950	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I have to correct the quote of fellow Pecek, who said, "The state is not creating enough, and it is spending too much.". Well, I think fellow Pecek would have to know best that the state is not creating. The state was creating at a time of communism, because it was all theirs, which is why it was effectively ruined. They create entrepreneurs for whom the government has allocated a whole series of different loans, etc. Second, he spends too much. Let's think of a little budgeting and amendments for three, four, five billion kunas, and it turns out that the state is spending too little on your own, because it's supposed to be a few billion kunas. And the question is, if he spends too much on who he should take? Military, police, epiphany, doctors, social cases? Then be a little clearer next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58951	Correction Mr. Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58952	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. He said, "With this bill of law, some poor community will become something richer.". No, I don't. With this bill of law, the state and the City of Zagreb would become somewhat poorer, but that would not be such a big problem, but some richer municipalities, present and cities would become something richer. But that would make poor municipalities and poor cities in areas of special state concern and mountainous and mountainous areas poorer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58953	Mr. Fiolic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pacek listed a series of incorrect allegations, so I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58955	Before, Mr. Pecek's injury to the Rules of Procedure. I'm obliged to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure as soon as that...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58956	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you to just do what you're supposed to do, that these fellow cowards who don't really want to give replicas but always give corrections to the allegations that aren't there, which they don't have, to react to. So nothing's fixed at all. However, we are engaged in demagogy in discussions and through the institutes of correcting incorrect allegations. It's high time you made it impossible in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58957	Thank you. You hurt the Rules of Procedure because you didn't say the article you're referring to, so we can do it all the time. Is it? The breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you to make it a real breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it looks like we're going to have to be real, and I don't want to, share a little warning about the abuse of that institute. Yeah? Mr. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58958	Mr. Pecek has injured Article 214. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5. He'll read it. And the other thing, I would teach my colleague, Pacek, that after a speech on behalf of the club, you can give a replica, but only a correction of an incorrect quote can be given. Please consider the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58959	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure Mr Stjepan Fiolić, i.e. correction of the incorrect quote. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58960	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Agent Pacek has cited a number of incorrect allegations, so I'm going to mention two. He pointed out that, and it speaks as if it were in pre-election time, and it should wait another two years and the time will come for it. So it states that someone who should propose is not proposing, referring to the government. It's true that this government must be sailing and leading a better country. It also states that 20% of VAT is more charged by referring to imports. I must remind him that VAT is paid the same for domestic production.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58961	Excuse me, Mr. Markovanovic. And he asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58962	No, I just wanted to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58963	If he didn't give up in the meantime.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58964	I just wanted to say that Mr. Pecek hurt the Rules of Procedure because he insults the MPs. Thank you. ... Everybody in line. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58965	Thank you very much. Mr. Lesar, a representative of the motion has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58966	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, thank you for all the debates, suggestions and dilemmas you've shared with us in this law. But when it comes to numbers, then we can't figure out the numbers from, "we seem to," "we think," "we estimate," "we might." Namely, writing this bill, and after obtaining official documents, I've exercised control with a document you probably remember. The state audit report Mrs Krasic presented for this speaker a month ago. And we adopted him. This is the document in which it writes, and our mathematics and the reasoning of the law was made on the 2004 data and the 2005 projection. It says here that 10 billion incomes per income and cut were achieved from the total tax revenue of 20047. Four-and-a-half billion profit taxes and a billion and 100 real estate taxes. In our proposal, as more money to local self-government deals with these three taxes that exist in Croatia, income tax, profit tax and real estate tax. And that's the exact data. If you know the Law on the financing of local self-government and take percentages from this law, you can easily calculate percentages and whether islands or mountain-mountan get more or less. . /. The total tax receipts that year were 56 billion. We're dealing with these 16.5 billion and we're trying to... There'll be money, not enough. [[You don't understand.]] They need radical cuts. Well, the most radical cut is value added tax, 29 billion. Let's propose to the government, let's ask the government to halve this 29 billion 864 million halves half of itself to the local self-government. But we couldn't offer a different solution, because these 3 taxes are 16.5 billion in the country. Furthermore, in that same report, the State Audit Office showed that income from the income tax title was 41.2% in local budgets, and that the profit tax brought only 5.1%, so if you want... help then intervene in the item most in the total income, not that has a negligible share. So these are the same data from that same report. If we do not trust the State Audit, recently in Koprivnica this material has been shared, which has been downloaded from the Ministry of Finance's website, which says that local self-government in 2004 generates income from the income tax address 45.7% and gets 9.2 total. That in the county, the share of income tax is 72%, profit 6.9. That in cities, the share of income tax is 43.17 profits of 10.9. And in municipalities, income 30.43 and profit only 3.79%. These are data from the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia. I trust them. And that's why our proposal is, and it's true that you noticed, that we are fiscally strengthening the capacities of the region, the county, even on average by 11%. Why? The county cannot introduce a tax, the county has no room for manoeuvre compared to municipalities and cities in order to increase its budgets by local fees, and therefore our proposal truly brings an average of 3% to municipalities and cities and 11% to counties. That we aim to increase the county budget almost four times stronger than municipalities and cities, because we have to financially strengthen the regions. We have to enable the counties to step stronger in the budget, Alki do not forget the strengthening of the fiscal capacity of the region and their credit capacity of the debt and the possibility that even with their own potential public-private partnerships and loans, they will no longer be able to address some of their problems. And you've noticed exactly that cities won't have too much benefit, but counties do, more than 11% on average. Well, that's what it says in our explanation, because from our tables it's visible and it was our goal. Not as many municipalities and cities as the county. 50% of municipalities and cities have introduced taxes, are now leaving and will boost their fiscal capacity. The County, except for these changes in other maneuvering spaces, is gone, and that is the essence of our proposal. We strengthen regions in a financial sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58967	Thank you very much. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs, these two legal proposals. Now we'll interrupt the session, continue at 3 p.m., and the first is in the individual debate Mr. Vlado Jelkovac, so Marko Širac and so on. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue with the session on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax and this, local and regional (regional) self-government, financing units of local, means these two points of the agenda. Mr. Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58969	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. There's no proposer here right now, so I don't know how much sense it makes, but I'm going to say some of the things that I think are important for the analysis of these amendments and the addition of the law. These proposals therefore propose amendments to the Law on profit tax and the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. The solution is that income tax becomes the income of units of local and regional self-government, so municipalities, cities and counties. While the profit tax would be the revenue of the state budget. At the same time, it is proposed that real estate tax be the total income of units of local and regional self-government. According to the table provided by the applicant here, therefore, the mass of income would be redistributed from the total taxes, which are about 15 billion and 100 million kuna, according to the table put forward by the promoters. The point is to reduce the revenue of the state and the City of Zagreb by about 320 million kuna, and to redistribute to the cities and municipalities of 305 million and to the counties of 335. The fact is, we can agree with this, that in the overall structure of public income cities, municipalities and counties do not have enough resources. But just as it has been mentioned here, so let us remember the debate on the state budget and the many amendments when it was proposed at the state level to try to find additional funds to calm public needs. Due to such a lack, of course, the units of local self-government and regional self-government are also obliged, i.e. to resort to additional duties. So according to the 2004 State Audit Report, the total debt balance per county is therefore the total debt of a billion 633 million kuna, of which only in 2004 received new 566 million kuna loans, i.e. loans. Any amendments, i.e. any proposal to amend the tax rules, in close connection with the state budget, which should be respected in any proposal for amending the law affecting the revenues of the state budget. But I think it should be mentioned that there has been an additional redistribution in 2004 and 2005 of income tax from the state level to municipalities, cities and counties and these areas of special state care, mountain-mounted areas, island municipalities and cities where they have been given the total share of the state in income tax, and from the part of income tax belonging to the state, taxes on income have been made to citizens from 1st, 2nd and 3rd groups and mountain-mounted areas. In addition, this proposal should say that there remains an unresolved question of who, instead of the state, would return more paid income tax to citizens in the area of special state care, which is the basis of the State Budget Implementation Act in 2004 and 2005. And what I think is the most important and fundamental reason why this proposal does not need to be supported is the fact that these amendments are passed by one law and another according to how I read figures and suggestions, the negative consequences for local self-government units in the field of special state care and mountain-mounted areas. So for the ones that are most difficult to operate, for the ones that are in the biggest problems. I'd like to explain it a little bit with numbers, too, or percentages, and I'd like to hear the proposer's explanation then. In traffic, real estate tax would increase 40% of the country's participation, while cities and municipalities would remain in the same status, therefore, with 60% of the corresponding tax. In profit tax, the county would be reduced by 10%. Those cities and municipalities that are not in the area of special state care and which are not mountain-mounted areas would increase their income from profit tax for, or would decrease by 20%, while local self-government units in the area of special state care and mountain-mounted areas would increase income from profit tax from the existing 90% to 100%. But what matters most to me is the redistribution of income tax. I will remind, now local self-government units in the field of special state care are achieving 34% of their income tax participation as the original incomes of local self-government units and 56% of the basis of these specific laws on the area of special state care and mountain-mountean areas. According to a proposal from the promoter here, the 90% share in income tax would be reduced to 71% of income participation. So it's a 90% reduction. In the county, participation would grow from 10% to 18.6% and from those other cities and municipalities that are not the area of special state care, so something richer than these poorest ones. That participation would rise from 34% to 50%, so 16% higher. What can I conclude from this? I think we can conclude that they're better off getting richer and poorer to lose. As Mr. Lesar said in his explanation on behalf of the promoter, I, of course, have not been able to calculate these exact percentages now, but to believe it is that the county would receive 11% of the funds more and the cities and municipalities to get 3% of the funds more. But I think the point is precisely in this percentage of the rise in cities and municipalities. The fact is that it would increase 3% cumulatively in mass, but suppose it would be 5% or 6% more developed cities and municipalities, but that's probably why 5% less local self-government units in the field of special state care and mountainous areas, which in mass gives an increase of 3%, but the poorer additional losses, and they're slightly richer, I don't say the rich get slightly. And I think that's why you couldn't support this proposal, and I think fiscal decentralisation on which we will probably all agree should be fully prepared, making sure first of all that the proposal from certain central-level jobs to the level of units of local and regional self-government should be monitored and a different distribution of common taxes between the state units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, the money should be followed by the obligations arising from certain legal proposals. And I therefore conclude that I believe that this is still a partial solution to the functioning and financing of local self-government, I think the proposal, but the overall debate on this issue can be a good contribution to opening a debate on the reform of local self-government as a whole, and I expect that the government will also come with a full analysis and a full proposal for a solution to the functioning and financing of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58970	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Marko Shirac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58971	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. To today's debate on the proposal to amend and supplement these two laws, one part of the MPs pointed out that this was the beginning of decentralisation of state functions and the transfer of obligations to local administrations and self-government, and individuals also pointed out that this was the proposal to allocate funds from the state budget. I join this second assessment because, in fact, the amendments to these two laws only propose, only proposing a redistribution of budget revenues of 15% of the state budget under the conditions under which here are the solutions to these two proposed laws, and in fact, there is no mention of the transfer of any commitment that is being carried out today in the state budget and the funds of the state budget to any unit of local self-government. I therefore underestimate these amendments only as a proposal to amend the allocation of funds in the state budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on profit tax, by deleting Article 14. Law on areas of special state care, by eradicating Article 7a. Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and amendments to Article 45 In fact, the law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government is proposed to redistribute income tax, income tax and real estate tax as common taxes, and the criteria for this distribution are now governed by the applicable law and Article 45 whose amendment is also proposed. Proposers propose a different way of sharing common tax revenues in a way that the profit tax becomes State income, income tax to become the income of a single local and regional self-government, leaving them with their current revenues from the state budget from a position to help balance the centralised functions. Real estate tax would also be the income of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, and it is interesting to promote why such changes are proposed by these laws. So the promoters say this is how these changes aim at a different distribution of common tax revenues, fostering decentralisation and politic development and simplifying the tax system, rather than questioning the revenues of the state budget. I have tried as well as my colleague Jelkovac well to analyse the reasoning of these laws, and in particular Table one and Table two, which are accompanied by these arguments, which show an assessment of the distribution of taxes in the current law and distribution in the proposed way. The proposed allocation shows that the proposed changes do not achieve the objectives set. In fact, the distribution of total tax revenues remains complicated. After all, this law was inherited by the government because it was passed in 2003. The redistribution will benefit only some cities and some municipalities while smaller municipalities and units of local self-government or municipalities in areas of special state care and mountain-mountain areas will be significantly worse for me, as in particular in municipalities that are in the area of special state care, they will change their status and other conditions regarding the insurance of funds. The state budget, as is said, remains without 320 million kuna and does not indicate any sources from which compensation would be made to the state budget or which functions would be transferred to local and regional self-government units. Therefore, the proposal does not rest on those objectives which are in the light of these laws and written. In my view, the proposed changes to the truth would undermine the distribution of tax revenues between the state and local and regional self-governments set out in the guidelines for economic development and fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006/2008. and also the projections of the state budget. In the end, Mr. Vice President and my colleagues would have made my judgment that these changes were not justified, so that I couldn't support them. I think that for a serious decentralisation of central government functions, several laws should be amended so that such changes should be highly prepared and, of course, determined exactly what is being transferred from obligation to local self-government units, as they are being provided for. I certainly advocate that our units of local self-government are qualified and that they carry part of the development, that they belong to one part of the funds but that should be done in another way and far better prepared. And I'd end up, Mr. Vice President, that this is how I would propose and this is the law I couldn't support.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58972	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58973	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a little bit of the budget we talked about today. So the first thing that is incorrect in these laws, in this bill of law, is that the budget will not lose anything. In any case, the budget is losing, it is not at all controversial, from 320 million as the proposings claim to be, to a significant extent, more than the ministry claims. So the budget here is definitely losing. If we know that the budget has been passed then it will certainly not be possible at this time to apply such a law. Second, who else is losing? He's losing the city of Zagreb here. We're saying that the city of Zagreb, that it's centralized, that this, that, that there's too much money. The city of Zagreb and the more it loses, the more it won't feel, because at six, seven billion dollars the budget of 300 million or something more it won't destroy it, but the fact is that even local self-government won't get much here. Next, there's little you should say about taxes. Income tax is an interesting tax because it is clear to everyone in the interest of it being as much in all cities and municipalities as possible. But he's still just part of what he's supposed to be because there's almost no employer as small as possible, the bigger one that doesn't pay one part on black still, so I'm this income that's being shown is significantly less than the income that's real. Therefore, we all lose here, especially if we get most of the income cities, municipalities and counties. The profit tax is particularly interesting but under-analysed because the profit tax is rising rapidly. Here, almost 32% is a higher profit tax. It's going to get bigger and bigger because one part, we heard the other day, one part of the employers are going to have to move on to showing up. I can say here for the Council of Sunday's municipality that in 2004, she had a profit tax of 6.5 million and 2005. Eight million and 600. So the increase is over 2 million, 2 million and 100 grand. At the same time, income grew by a million kunas. So by losing a profit I certainly don't know about 8 million, this year we expect more, it's certain that the municipality would be badly damaged here. Who else is losing? They lose the poorest municipalities, lose the hill-mounted parts, lose the islands and question who gets it. They'll get back who have a large population. For example, it can be the Great Gorica, and finally we are being moved to almost 3,000 inhabitants. I don't think they're going to contribute to a clear increase in income. But what about a lot of people who certainly won't get anything here. And then what are we talking about? We're talking about some kind of decentralisation, talking about transferring various forms of decentralisation. With this percentage being intended for them, it's no wonder that no one accepts decentralisation because the fact that so far, let's say schooling, I don't know 30 cities of everything that has taken over education and everything else has counties, so the different funds from which it would be managed should be quite growing which again is nothing but centralization quite. In this law, what is not yet there, I look at the small table, there is only the city of Zagreb mentioned, and the city of Zagreb is certainly not a representative here. You should at least look at what happens to a dozen cities, at least a dozen cities, a dozen municipalities. We don't really see anything out of it. So we can only assume that in one part of the country one will happen in the other part of the other. So one good simulation would certainly do. But it's not just the law. Simulations obviously don't work for other laws, so then we always have problems like this. Real estate tax must be a significant tax, and where is it significant? It's important where the land is most expensive. So by the sea or I don't know, around big cities. Big cities will still feel that tax. Of course the county would have been better off getting those taxes, but I'm not sure that's what they're going to do, that the state is going to give up that tax because I'm saying it again, it's going to be included in the budget itself. If we're talking about small municipalities I have to repeat this really is a constant attack on that, on small municipalities that should be abolished, that I shouldn't know how to make far fewer units of local self-government or municipalities, but let's look at how many cities we have. We're not going to end the cities. And we have cities that have a thousand, two, three thousand inhabitants who are just as bad as the municipalities. Well, then you should have me thinking the same thing about each other. The very table that is attached here simplifies pretty much 300 I don't know the million losses of the state, 300 million Zagreb, 320, how many countries? However, apparently that the legislator did not take into account a whole series of laws, the proposer did not take the whole set of laws because the budget lost even more. I believe that there will also be changes, there are proposals from some of the ministries or government that may even be on the trail of this proposal to transfer the profits to, to be transferred as revenue of the budget, but I believe that there will really be much more to worry about cities, municipalities and counties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58974	Thank you. Correction of Mr. Dragutin Lesar's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58975	Thank you very much. Short 4 correcting incorrect allegations. First, the budget cannot be lost because this Bill proposal states that it applies on 1 January 2007 so the budget that has been adopted. The elemental thing, the laws should be read when discussed. It shall apply from 1 January 2007. Secondly, no one wants decentralisation and the cities didn't want to take over primary school. The law sets out exactly which cities can, can take over decentralised functions. It's not a matter of free will. Fourth, the government has a proposal for financial decentralisation. He's gone because he's not on the agenda. And you can't see the simulation. Simulation is done but only for those who can read numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58976	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. However, when they were divided and according to some legal proposals here that passed the government's proposals were shared powers, obligations were shared, responsibilities were shared. No money besides that. No one objected from the position. Powers varying behind them and costs have fallen to the level of counties, to the level of cities, to the level of municipalities, and nothing further has happened. What assumption was behind it? Well, I guess there's nothing to be done because without money, things can't be done of course. Now some money should come down. Now, counterpart Markovinovic establishes that the budget will suffer and regret a budget that will run out of 300 million kuna. At the same time, in the second sentence, a colleague said that Zagreb would remain the same without 300 million kuna, but on those 6 billion, it is not much. And for a hundred and so many billion, it's our dear budget we can't touch, we can't touch. Of course we want to damage the budget. We want to lower the government budget not only the obligation but also the money on those who had to take it, who took it and who wanted to take it. Who want to run these jobs. Working on black as an excuse not to raise income tax I can't respect. Working on black just means our inspections aren't working. That the poorest will go through, and that's not true. The poorest in this one won't go bad. At the very least, the Alignment Fund will be filled with the same pace and the same money as before and will have fewer customers. So it'll be clear what's development, what's money and what's social? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58978	Thank you. Mr. Markovanovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58979	Well, there's a whole series of incorrect claims here. I just said that since everyone is talking about the most left in Zagreb, that these 300 million kunas of Zagreb will not know how to damage or ruin it, nor will those who expect some big profit get it. They'll get again seats, cities and municipalities that have the most residents and the most employees and those who have the highest wages here. How much will and what will lose the budget so you just have to tell who needs to be taken from that budget? It's very simple. And if it's going to be the ninth, tenth, eighth, sixth, seventh year, we can do the same thing. We can say anything. Something to plan and say, "It's worth it since 2008. Well, the budget doesn't lose anything. As far as simulations are concerned, Mr. President, you really can't talk or work. [[The intruders don't understand.]] I believe colleague Mršić is still fueled by a pre-election campaign from yesterday's Committee on Local Self-Government, but I still ask you to be quieter. As far as the simulation simulation itself is concerned, there is no simulation here. There is only the city of Zagreb, and as much as we read it, I bear the insult of my fellow Lesar, but here I think he said it in a friendly tone. No matter how many simulations we read here. You can't see what's going to happen here with, I don't know, a series of cities and municipalities from different parts of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58980	As far as I'm concerned, there's no big fuss in the hall. I have attended many other parliaments. It just can't be heard, but still we're a little... We're a little bit more polite than many others. We don't make too much noise. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here in the debates we have heard on many occasions that these two bill proposals that we are discussing today will affect the state budget. The question was, how will this be compensated from the state budget? Then the state budget loses. Well, I'm not an economist, but I think I understand myself so much. Well, of course the state budget is losing. Of course the state budget is going to shrink. The state budget cannot remain the same if you are heading towards a local self-government unit, or a regional self-government unit, providing greater resources for those needs that they have. This is clear also at the level of local self-government units and regionals on many occasions, and also at the state level we bring a variety of different, the government makes regulations, so we bring budget rebalances. So, for some purposes, let us objectively notice that we need to secure at the positions of the budget a certain item and then we rebalance or redistribute or already as it is called insurance. So it's a matter of art, a matter of assessing whether some kind of project, whether some investment is good or not, a matter of some time, some extraordinary visible expenditure, we don't have a position on the budget, and then by redistributing or rebalancing the budget, we provide it. And we can't even expect in total income that the state budget can remain at the same level, in terms of I don't know of 106 billion, and at the same time that we from that same state budget can provide units of local and regional self-government with money for the needs of let's now say for fiscal decentralisation which I still think a large number of MPs see as a need. Finally, those who exercise power at this very moment have just shown this need for decentralisation, and that business needs to be approached by different redistributions, i.e. that tax system reform should be approached, and I do not think it is disputed. I would like to be concrete, which means the bill really does not intend to support this or that promoter, but I think that we in the Republic of Croatia have a problem, and the problem is tied up and it is of financial nature that the central state certainly takes a large part of the income, and on the other hand the unit of local and regional self-government. They are provided with too little money to meet those needs, including those obligations that have been determined by decentralisation of earlier years not to say imposed. In profit tax, the state's income increase is 1 billion and 760. So much is reduced, of course, the income of cities and municipalities, the county and the City of Zagreb. In the case of real estate taxes, there is a reduction of State income of 380 million. This increases the county's income, or the City of Zagreb. In income tax, the state's income is reduced by a billion and 700 million kuna. So much is the income of the county, Zagreb, or cities and municipalities. Finally, this means that in the budget of the state and the City of Zagreb, 320 million kuna is reduced and that the increase in revenues of the county is 335 million kuna, i.e. the increase in the income of cities and municipalities by 305 million. Of course, more specifically, if we count areas of special state concern that need to keep the reserve there, that is, in these amounts that I have listed there are differences although not significant but they differ. Without presupposing to put into the first plan of the county from which I come or the city from which I come, but let me know the situation best from the city from which I come from Osijek or Osijek-Baranja County, so I am sure that the data of fiscal capacity and county and the City of Osijek are familiar, and of course what is happening in that part of Osijek-Baranja County, the City of Osijek is certainly happening in many border areas of the Republic of Croatia that have the same or similar or perhaps even bigger and more difficult problems. What would be the consequences of the application of this law to Osijek-Baranja County and the City of Osijek. As far as income tax is concerned, the state would increase by 28 and a half million kuna. Osijek-Baranja County revenue would be reduced by 9 and a half million kuna, and the City of Osijek would be reduced by a little less than 19 million kuna. In real estate tax, the state's income would be reduced by 10 and a half million kuna, but the income of Osijek-Baranja County would be increased by 10 million and 600 thousand. Of course, cities and municipalities would stay on the same level. In the case of income tax, the state would decrease by 47 million and 400 000 but would increase the county's income by 18 million and 800 and the City of Osijek's income would increase by slightly less than 35 million kuna. Finally, the bill would reflect the City of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County as follows. The state's income would be reduced by 29 million and 500 thousand. The income of Osijek-Baranja County increased by nearly 20 million, and the City of Osijek's income increased by 16 million kuna. For the City of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, such an increase in income is certainly significant if I have to say not enough. Given the obligations I am now returning to the level of the entire Republic of Croatia and to all other counties or units of local self-government that have these problems. Neither this increase, nor these amendments and additions to the bill solve the overall problem of fiscal decentralisation. It is absolutely certain that fiscal decentralisation must also be done in one systematic way. But what I'd like to say is we've been waiting and waiting for years for fiscal decentralisation. We're waiting for something to be fixed. I personally expected the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose in these two and a half years precisely these systematic fiscal decentralisation measures, that this did not happen and I do not view this amendment and the supplement as perfect at all. However, I agree that he is missing, but I disagree with the fact that in the debates we use the terms that we have to do something, we have to analyze. We need to find, it is necessary to find and this government has a term of office of less than two years, if parliamentary elections are regular. Of course, it doesn't matter at all at this point, I mean, I don't know if you'll agree, so it doesn't matter if the government is going to be this party or those. I just said, it doesn't matter to me who this bill comes from, it really doesn't matter to me. And I don't think that matters to the Croatian public either. The content of the proposal is important. I'm not saying that this content of the proposal is perfect, certainly there are shortcomings, but that the intensity of this law is the intention of finally entering into the essence, in the matter of fiscal decentralisation, it's quite certain. And that's why I will surely support this bill. But I also expect from this government, and from the Government that will behave in the next period of power, and I expected the Boca from the Government that previously exercised power to sit on this issue anyway, analyse, analyze and improve the fiscal capacity of local self-government units, i.e. regional self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58982	Thank you very much. First replica, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58983	Well, I'd like to turn here maybe a debate about whether the state budget is going to be damaged by something, both by what and how much. Look, '93. When the Law on Local Self-Government was passed, the Law on Finance, the original law, so on the financing of local self-government, then no one discussed how much of the municipalities and cities at the time would be damaged for the money they had. No one asked the citizens how much they'd be damaged for the property they'd only been building by contributions. My colleague Shirac said it was social property. Yes, there were no owners of ownership, but it's precisely known in Koprivnica who built the hospital, with self-dependence, with schools, with self-dependence, with roads, with self-dependence. Therefore, it was the property of citizens in the area of the local self-government unit from which the contribution was paid. And this thing, this story of decentralisation is not that the state will be damaged for something, because the state is not something virtual, something fluid. The state is made up of Croatian citizens. Therefore, it is only necessary to return the citizens to certain units of local self-government that they have been labeled in '93. A year. You have an example today we are discussing income tax and profit, and you have an example of the road. The roads were built by citizens with self-dependence. The state turned them into state roads. With the basis of road use, income goes to the County Road Administration, the state budget and to the budget of the Croatian Roads. Cities whose citizens built these roads cannot charge for anything based on the use of that road. And when you want to lay the municipal infrastructure along that road, then Croatian roads ask you to pay for the service of road land. Therefore, it will not be a fluid or virtual state damaged or a state budget for something, but we will simply make the distribution of funds, public revenues as citizens expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58984	Thank you. Answer Mr. Sishljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58985	Thank you. Here, I'm glad that colleague Mršić has returned to this formulation, let's put it this way, damage to the state budget. The damage to the state budget is figuratively stated. Therefore, in the Republic of Croatia the state budget cannot be damaged at the expense of units of local self-government, i.e. units of regional self-government. Whereas it is understood that citizens are also taxing the state budget, i.e. the full budget of units of local or regional self-government. And it is natural for the state to be therefore interested in certain municipal infrastructures, roads, waterways, sewerage, to do so at the level of the unit of local self-government, or regional self-government, to carry out certain projects, and I don't think that this should be questionable. So, citizens will not be damaged, but they will be done, and I think it is necessary, that it is not 5 minutes to 12, but it has been 12 hours, that it is necessary to approach a thorough analysis of fiscal decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. Not to damage someone, but to make a big step and actually improve the functioning of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58986	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58987	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Šišljagic has made several incorrect allegations. I'll just look back at the two most important. Speaking of fiscal decentralisation is important, I am correcting the incorrect allegation because there is no real fiscal decentralisation without the territorial reconstruction of the state and without resolving the issue of the gray economy. And that's 11 to 15 billion kuna. Therefore, the state budget will not be damaged if the issue of the grey economy is resolved. And you could have said these things about decentralisation a year ago while you were in the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58988	You'll agree that this is one opinion, right? ... It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn, who he doesn't have, and he loses his right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the reform of the common taxes, this is about common taxes, in the common sense that they are shared by central states and local self-government units, is the key to decentralisation. Decentralization is actually carried out at three levels. The first level is the decentralisation of powers. We're doing it without a problem in this House. However any government proposal comes down to the level of local self-government, it goes without any particular opposition. The second is the decentralisation of funds. It's hard to do. We've been doing it all day, and the question is, what are we gonna do? This is one of the possible models. Perhaps if the Law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament looked different and if the people sitting here were to direct the name and name to the citizens of the local self-government unit from which they came from, the discussions might look different. It's so obvious that the good part of the discussion is actually some vow of loyalty, and it's not about real interests. Our first proposal on this subject dates back to June 2004, was a slightly different model, but the goal was the same. In another way to distribute some of these common taxes. It was rejected without a special resonance, i.e. with the main resolution the government will offer its plan of decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation, the government has a model, this model will be found here before us, we will see that it is genius and we will accept it as soon as it comes. The model hasn't checked in yet, we're waiting for him, but it's safe on the way. The profit tax becomes the country's original income on the proposals, mostly remains local self-government while real estate traffic is the biggest profit from the proposed proposal made by the county. Namely, the county is in a strange limbo, again the same as the municipalities and cities just a little faster we lower powers from the other side, we raise powers from municipalities and cities to the county, and the county has absolutely no impact on the size of the funds they have. Countys can't even make a cut, the county can't get any funding except out of the state budget and in the way we propose here. The advantage of these proposals is to simplify the system and clarity of income. The system is simplified so that one tax goes on one side, the other side and there is not much mixing and the possibility of not understanding the difficult calculation. For a time, the government assured us that it was impossible to account for profit tax according to the place of work, and now we hear that the government is discussing this solution because it was very complicated, and suddenly it's not complicated anymore. This system is, in any case, simpler than the existing one. Of course no one claims it's perfect, no one claims there's a better one, but it's an improvement compared to the existing one for sure. It's shrinking, and it seems to me extremely important, although it doesn't end up eliminating the need for transfers from the central level of management to a lower level. Namely, these transfers, and especially those that depend on the political will that passes through the central funds, these transfers are actually a way of showing, confirming and reviving political power, power of government and the power of political democracy by the system is the successful politician who has someone somewhere and who has someone in the right place can come and say, please put down my community, put down something in my city and we are people. Such a benchmark of success and is quite clear and good and functions in the system when all the government is located and all the money is at the top. The moment that part of that cake breaks down and puts it down where it's earned, that kind of relationship loses it in a sense. We've been insisting on these proposals for a long time. It seems obvious to me now that everyone agrees that such attitudes in fiscal decentralisation about how money should not only be spent but that money should be made available to people where it earns it, it seems to me to be a political attitude. It is becoming a bit of a civilized position, as happened with a good part of the political views of the Croatian People's Party, and this has also been confirmed on the HDZ clause in the Varazdinske Toplice where this view of a fairer division of taxes came out as one of the clear views of the ruling party. It's enlightened, I hope it shines in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58990	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to remind myself of one of my questions when I asked the prime minister to follow up on what was on that clause, I asked the prime minister a question after he said in his debate that the government would take care of the more even development of the Republic of Croatia and that he would make sure that these taxes were distributed differently to local self-government units. It was six months ago and he said that the government would settle it within a very soon period and that it would be very high-quality and that we would probably all be pleased with that proposal. I then said in my answer to him, if they didn't have enough experts to make any proposal, any proposal, I offered us HNS's proposal to help make that bill and I said that we would be going out with our proposal long before the government suggested it. We have come out today with one proposal, we do not claim that it is the conclusion of some distribution reform and of this even development of the Republic of Croatia, because unlike my colleagues, Šišljagić, where he was doing a simulation on Osijek-Baranja County and in the city of Osijek, I will do a simulation on one of the municipalities that barely survives, so I will try to explain to you that story that we all say will not help the poor. Why? For the simple reason that we here in the Assembly in these two years have passed at least 18 laws where certain obligations have been passed to units of local administration, local self-government and where we have entered in these 123 cities and 426 municipalities two important words that appear in each of these laws, which is "debted" and "binding", and nowhere have we defined how some of these duties and obligations will be able to finance. And in some ways, everyone also mentions some economic development guidelines. According to these economic development guidelines, one of the municipalities I would like to analyse, two of which are in Osijek-Baranja County, one is Donja Motičina, and the other is Biskovci. The municipality of Donja Motičina has revenues, total revenues of millions and 150 thousand kuna. Their tax revenue is 290,000 kuna. If there are no state aids in the amount of 300,000 kuna and help the county and help the state, tell me how this municipality could fulfil all the obligations it had been given. And there children need to go to kindergartens, and there they need public lighting, and there they need sewers, water and everything that every citizen in this country needs. And they have to drive garbage, and they need local roads, without talking about scholarships that some of them here mentioned from cities that managed to solve. There are municipalities where even this kind of assistance that we have now proposed, this distribution will not bring about anything at all. But that should be the second step when the government hasn't even made this one first. This should be the second step in which the government would help those who are on the verge of existence. If I can't survive, let's disband them. We know how they were formed. They were designed to take care of certain political personnel in some former times. But if I can't finance myself and if the state doesn't think about them, then let's make a political decision and be prepared for the consequences of such a political decision and disband such municipalities. But so far, no government has ever wanted to get caught up in such a wasteland and disband such communities. And to tell you the truth, neither am I to disband a municipality that has 5 thousand 300 inhabitants and only 300 employees. Is it their fault they only have 300 employees? Isn't there guilt and the state? Shouldn't the state have made it possible for this neighborhood to develop in some way? Is this the green Croatia we are talking about and that should feed the blue Croatia? And all of northern Croatia is like that. We saw last night on a variety of shows all the villagers don't get. We've seen empty houses, empty courtyards, empty villages where there's no one else but old men. Do we expect everyone to come to Zagreb? Do we expect Zagreb to be 4 million and 400,000 people to spread throughout Croatia? Because this way we take care of these villages that are on the verge of survival, it will certainly happen. So let's make this little effort that we've just proposed where we don't practically take anyone to give to someone who doesn't. I know it won't help the Viskovci much, it won't help Motičina much, because their budget with these 700 thousand kunas won't increase the actual budget by more than 20,000 kuna. But believe me, they and that 20,000 kuna mean a hell of a lot to them because their capital investments on that municipality are 60 grand kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58992	Replica, first, Mr. Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And the replica and the correction, but I'm going to focus, at first glance, really these proposed laws are tempting and maybe we can sort something out. But with a brief and clear analysis of the municipalities and cities on Croatian islands, about 50 million kunas would be lost. According to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, or regional self-government of municipalities and cities, although they are signatories of an agreement on land financing of capital projects, of interest to the development of the island, this proposal would not be regulated at all. There's nothing to say about that. As many investments are now, thanks to the Law on Islands, thanks to accepted programmes from the Croatian government, many investments are under way, the question is who would continue and complete these investments. Similarly, 215 municipalities and cities in the area of special state care would lose to mountain and mountain areas also in the distribution of income tax around 152 million kuna, which would require amendments to other regulations and laws. Therefore, the most acceptable is exactly what the Croatian government is doing and what shows that tax reforms are foreseen in the economic policy guidelines for 2006. And also through the 2004 decentralisation framework programme, the laws are projected to be fully harmonised and amended. Many provisions should therefore, on a modern, nomotechnically regulated basis, not only do we occasionally make palitative measures that are acceptable to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58994	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Beautifully you, my colleague, have said, however, we have already heard this story here in Parliament, and after your clause we have listened to the same story that the government will solve something, that the government will suggest something, that the government will do something about it. Now you're talking about guidance. The guidelines are by 2007, this doesn't fit those guidelines. We can't change anything because we'd go into the budget according to those guidelines. Does this mean that nothing will be done until 2007. Does this mean that all those I've listed, let's just say these two municipalities in Osijek-Baranja County, does that mean that they can put the key in the lock? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58996	Same replica, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58997	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, he has made two fine examples. Two municipalities in the area of Osijek-Baranja County where, in fact, the part I'm talking about on one side. If one whole analysis of the current territorial structure of the state were to be carried out, there would be an indication that a number of municipalities and even some cities, we know what cities we have, it doesn't work, it doesn't execute what was intended to execute. It's one way to go for real fiscal decentralisation. Another way is to fight the grey economy, so the state budget, i.e. budgets and counties and cities and municipalities, will be filled. And the best example is what he said, and that's the biggest problem. I think we, the whole debate is going in the wrong direction because the tax system that is developmental will allow for new employment. Economic growth will solve in many ways and the question that, and what is now envisaged, and especially what is proposed to have municipalities, cities that should be municipalities and cities, which as such must function, will be far away then, let's say a few thousand employees in that municipality would finally feel it. And now we're talking again here about this part of what's about profit tax, and let's forget one basic thing about, say, the biggest profit in Croatia is made by banks, and we know how and how the privatised banks in Croatia are made, and they do so how? They make money by saving Croatian citizens, earning money on them, something as little as a salary to the state, and they bring it all out and then again as loans to the state. Well, that's it, so let's get the story back from the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58998	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u58999	I thank Perry for adding some things, but there's one thing I have to remind him of. He's totally saying we should do a simulation. How long are we waiting for that simulation? How long have our citizens been waiting for a simulation? Can't the government do a simulation? If we've managed to get all the data to create a simulation like this, can't the government have all that stuff on them? But to compare what situation Slavonia is in relation to other parts, if I went to borrow some sort of facility in Slavonia ten times, a minimum of ten times less credit could be raised for the object I have there compared to that in Dalmatia, Istria or Zagreb. It is the first injustice concerning Slavonia, and I am not talking about prices now, the price of squares, the price of living space, the price of business space, the price of hectares of the country, and if the state does not intervene, gentlemen Slavonia has long been on his knees.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59000	Thank you very much. We have another replica, Mr. Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I tend to draw attention to the debate about the need for decentralisation, especially the fiscal part. Here's my three, fourth term, experience as head of local self-government says it's not enough, it wouldn't be enough either. What is happening to the local budgets? Local leaders and I and everyone else spend on state-run programmes which are scarce anyway, and as long as the central government does not realize that for the needs of a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia, it is imperative for all residents of Croatia to be beautiful in the same way, under the same conditions, to provide highways, there is drinking water, gas pipelines, roads that are in their power of jurisdiction, all infrastructure facilities from school to health then we are one misery so that I say and the inability to meet the needs of the population at all, and as soon as this structure continues to remain selectively we do not develop those parts where we should, and rural areas where the huge inflow and this fiscal part is simply getting out of control, and this is a message to the central government that it must think about the overall development of the Republic of Croatia in the same way, and not the hot potato local administration and self-government give it. And I still support my colleague in the belief and the smallest municipality at the lowest fiscal capacity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia wherever it is because it is irreplaceable in that part of the social standard of preservation, I say it in a simple dictionary of religion, customs and tradition, while it was not our spiritual failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59002	Answer, Mr. Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59003	I thank Mr. Vice President and also thank my colleague Kolar for supplementing the part he knows far better because he is the longtime head of the municipality. The only thing I have to notice is that he has so much luck that his municipality has extra revenue from oil, but I also have to remind myself that there are other municipalities where this law on mineral raw materials and the municipalities are far removed because they don't practically get anything, because the calculation as the state inspectorate has never done anything about it and the calculations have been made funny and the municipalities have been cut off. And just to remind them of all the laws we've passed and the obligations we've transferred to the municipalities, and we haven't given them any funds. It's the Law on Waste, the Law on Air Protection, the Law on the Protection and Rescue, the Law on the Protection of Patients, the Law on the Protection of Nature, amendments and additions to the Law on Social Encouragement and not to mention, that's where we singled out only 18, and we brought more.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59004	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59005	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the thing. I've got to fix an incorrect and ugly assumption that they're actually the municipalities of '93. They're made to take care of politicians. So I can say here's how the municipalities were made. Samobor municipality was proposed to be three municipalities and one city, two municipalities did not accept easily and stayed in Samobor City. For the whole of Zagreb County, I can tell you that anonymous people, anonymous chiefs, anonymous leaders from all parties, none of the politicians, any known politicians, have sat down for the municipal or city chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59006	It is an opinion on whether, and now on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59007	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to look back on some of the thesis which these have been given, and first of all, to the the thesis that they have to municipalities in mountainous and mountainous areas and in the islands of this Law, i.e. the bill's proposal is being lost. It's a completely cobwebs grade. According to this Proposal for a Law of the Municipality in these areas, they are increased in the share of the profit tax, they retain all profits in relation to all other municipalities, all other municipalities make profits to the state, i.e. the state takes a profit tax other than these municipalities. They get a full profit tax. That's the first fact. The second fact that these municipalities are not paid in the Compensation Fund under this Law and that money, that's 10% income tax remains with those municipalities. Therefore, these are two additional revenues from these municipalities and it is difficult on this basis, of course it cannot be claimed with certainty but it is absolutely flat-rate on the basis of these two data that it is a reduction in the income of municipalities in mountain-mounted areas. Mr. Jelkovac, who isn't here, has been asked, and who is going to return instead of the state the share of income tax that the state has worked so far. According to this proposal, the balancing fund will be less burdened than it has been so far, and there will certainly be money for all those functions that the state of that fund has had in the municipalities so far. For these very reasons, but I question and fundamentally your claim, that is what Mr. Peronja said, that there will be a reduction of the municipality's income in the mountain-mounted areas and in the islands. In addition, the main feature of this proposal is the increase in county revenues. The county is also a municipality of special state care, so the county will use a part of its increased income if it properly performs its function dominantly where municipalities are of special state concern. In addition, the county under these circumstances can organise its own within the county balancing fund. I don't know if it's under our laws now, as far as I know, but such a financially empowered county can therefore set up its own balancing funds and if by chance any of the municipalities under this proposal would remain with smaller incomes or its increase would not be on average increasing it could compensate for the county because it is its function. The county has no separate territory that would not cover the municipalities. Therefore, the claim that this is about reducing the right of municipalities' income in mountain-mounted areas and island municipalities is absolutely flat. That's your assessment. What I was talking about is that their incomes are actually increasing in two segments and they're not shrinking, not confirming that your flat rate. Another thing I'd like to say about it is a simulation issue. That's what Mr. Markovanovic said. I agree absolutely with the fact that any such law should have a simulation, but the truth is that no law has appeared in this Assembly concerning the local self-government unit in the last 15 years that it has had a simulation with it. So you can't expect the opposition party to do what she did during all 15 years was not able to do state. So the last law we passed in October of last year, which increased jurisdiction, which means both the responsibilities of the municipalities and the cities, and the big cities and the counties, didn't even mention in a word what it actually stands for, how much it costs. So you can't expect the opposition party to submit one such simulation. If you want a simulation we can conclude here from the first reading to assign the Government because it is able to give a simulation and display the costs and costs related to all municipalities and cities. Why have we singled out Zagreb here? Because Zagreb participates in profit tax with 76% and it is clear that Zagreb will lose its income when the profit tax is fully paid. It is not to assume that any other city because it loses that relatively low income will be reduced revenue because it receives increased income income. And that's why we haven't analyzed any other city. Only the city of Zagreb and this is evident because of such an enormous one and I said this morning an unfair share in profit tax is mentioned here. All other cities are expected, of course, and all other municipalities will actually achieve an increase in income tax due to the loss of income tax. That's why we only simulated Zagreb. And as far as the simulation is concerned, here in the Croatian Parliament last year we proposed conclusions on the agenda point that we ourselves proposed a proposal for conclusions on the situation and perspectives of the development of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. There's a few of those conclusions. One of them says: "The Croatian Parliament owes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a full report on the state of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia including draft laws within 90 days to the Croatian Parliament, etc. And the second of these few of our conclusions that I will mention: "The Croatian Parliament owes the Government of the Republic of Croatia at least once a year to submit a full report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of local and regional self-government that will include development proposals.". This is where the government's full reports should find room for simulation as well. However, you rejected our proposals. Those proposals were not accepted. We've been discussing strategies here. I don't know what's happened in the Croatian Parliament for the past ten years. We never had a full debate about local self-government except for some opposition initiatives. And local self-government, its position, its perspective, its development, its impact on the development of the overall democratic climate in society is far more important than a series of topics that we have discussed here. But we have never had a full debate about what Croatia means by local and regional self-government. We proposed it, tried this proposal to conclude the perspectives and position of local self-government, but the ruling majority refused to do so. And you can't now expect this opportunity to be a simulation when you didn't do it last year when we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. And a few more petty remarks. The issue of the gray economy, the issue of non-payment or the fact that the state is cheating on paying lower income taxes is not about this law. That's a lot of stuff. This law is, in that sense, neutral or even has some kind of positive influence. A clear distinction between income tax revenues and profit tax will make it easier to monitor these taxes, and then perhaps in the perspective, information about what would help us deal with those evils, with tax evasion, tax evasion or with the grey economy. This law in itself is not a law that could address the issue of the gray economy and the non-payment of income taxes in the right way but certainly does not negatively affect these negative phenomena in the country. He thinks he makes it possible to better identify who doesn't pay taxes? How do you pay taxes? Well, in that sense, it has a symbolic positive contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59008	Thank you. It's Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I would just remind myself that the Croatian People's Party has, on several occasions in these last two years in the Croatian Parliament, gone with a proposal for different packages of law or law as from that Law on increasing the base for the non-taxable part of income in a package with the Law on increasing the share of income tax that should ensure better distribution of funds in the country, i.e. to ensure greater decentralisation and more even development of Croatia. We also proposed in 2004 and the conclusion when we went towards the Government and when within 5 months the Government had been required since the adoption of this conclusion and to work on the implementation, amendments to the implementing rules and to propose to the Croatian Parliament to amend existing rules that regulate the way taxes are distributed in profit and thus also the income tax is calculated by employee and the corresponding part pays to municipalities or cities and counties by place of employment. You remember that was rejected. Both. So I'd just like to conclude that this package of laws that we're about to follow right now is what we've been up against since the beginning of this term. So we're in favour of stronger fiscal decentralisation. Today's uneven development of Croatia and the expensive centralised state with a concentration of funds and thus power cannot be a good basis for the development of a fair Croatian society, and neither for Croatia the same opportunities as we often say in the HNS. The distribution of tax resources between units of local self-government, regional and regional self-government and the state today is completely disproportionate and unfair, and at the very least in accordance with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which we often call for, is not by any chance. The Republic of Croatia is a highly centralised state. Decentralisation is particularly fiscal only a remote coast for municipalities and cities. The only thing that has been decentralised to date is the obligations of the local self-government unit and the funds are almost decentralised nothing. HNS proposes the Law on Changes and Supplements to Profit Taxes and this time in the package with the Proposal for a Law on the Financing of Units of Local Self-Government or Amendments refers to the distribution of income from income tax on income, profit and tax on property sales. The point of being clear is not the subject and decision of the height of the cut. It remains in the jurisdiction of local self-government units. Tax revenues from income tax in 2004 totalled just over 8 billion kuna. The estimate of the total income generated from the 2005 profit tax is around 5.84 billion kuna, of which 4 billion is the income of the state budget. Incomes from profit tax are characterised by the concentration of the tax in cities where most large companies are established to make significant profits. Most of it is concentrated right in the city of Zagreb. As regards revenues from real estate sales in 2004 totalled around 880 million kuna. Of which almost 1/5 circus 18% was the arrival of the city of Zagreb. Since the city of Zagreb has reached the largest volume of real estate jobs. Given the trend in real estate traffic, the same tax for 2005 is estimated at 950 million kuna, of which the city of Zagreb could earn close to 200 million kuna. The main objective of this bill is the relationship of the entire legislative package to encourage precisely decentralisation and politic development. The legal solution proposes that income tax become income of units of local and regional self-government, in a way that from, the total income tax of 5 billion 840 million goes to the state. As a whole, it is proposed that real estate tax be the total income of units of local and regional self-government, while real estate tax according to current legal provisions is the income of municipalities and cities and states. The County is hardly participating at all for the time being in the distribution of that tax. It is indisputable that the county, that the county today brings spatial plans and participates in all strategic, infrastructure and other projects of importance for the county, which certainly contributes in a certain way to the development of the region. This marked centralisation, however, is not only visible in the country. It is very easy to follow in the city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is just such a negative example when we say the word metropolisation in Zagreb it has a negative or persuasive sound because it is actually a version of the desolation of Croatia. Because the trend of violently moving to Zagreb seriously disrupts the demographic image of Croatia and what it means for the city of Zagreb and how much it is a burden for the people of the city of Zagreb not to talk. In 2005 alone, 86 thousand inhabitants were moved to the city of Zagreb, which is equally a small Croatian town. The almost slogan will be not "Croatian My State" but "Zagreb my State" and that we have a president we don't need to talk about. Out of all public revenues, 86% remain state. 2% of everything goes to the county, and of 12% if they go to the cities and municipalities of those 12% or the circus 45% goes to the city of Zagreb, and only 6% goes to all other municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia. As a representative in front of the 6th constituency, I must stress that the gross social product in Sisak-Moslavina County is $1,200 per capita. At the same time in the same constituency, this same gross social product in the city of Zagreb is $23,000 per capital. The city of Zagreb has a budget for 2006, a budget projection of 6 billion 375 million kuna. Only 200 million is intended for urban districts. We can hardly say that out of the total budget allocated for 2006 only 3% of this budget is intended for the decentralised work of local self-government and 17 urban districts, respectively. I don't think there's anything in particular to conclude, and it's quite clear that we're an extremely centralised state that our support for the European Charter of Local Self-Government is more or less declarative, and that we're de facto truly fiscal so far, we've done nothing. And the frameworks that we want, this law that we want to do amongsts, is to simplify the tax system and ensure exactly better opportunities, a better framework for economic and economic and quality life on, in local self-government. Only by analysing this table that is given you will see that, apart from the state, the state is reducing revenue from, by 320 million, the City of Zagreb is reducing revenue by 315 million, which is only 5% in the City of Zagreb compared to the budget foreseen for 2006. For the counties, this represents an increase in revenues of cca 50% compared to the current situation, and for cities and municipalities, a 10% increase. And perhaps just one more thing, regarding what Mr. Rados said a little bit, as regards 215 municipalities and cities that are now in the system of areas of special state concern, i.e. that have status or mountainous mountainous areas or are island units of local self-government, I think it is misunderstood that there is a reduction. In fact, it's from this table that you can see that it helps even things out, it stays at the same level. However, by increasing funds to 10% of municipalities and cities and increasing funds to nearly 50% of municipalities and cities will fall out of those, the number of 215 and the number of municipalities that need it. This reduction will increase the possibility, i.e. the base will remain the same, with those municipalities still remaining in such a category getting more funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59010	Thank you very much. There's a replica, Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I would only replicate, no matter how much I agree with my esteemed colleague, Chichin-Shain, that this country has done nothing for the decentralisation of the state. She did, she did it to decentralisation the obligations of units of local and regional self-government. So maybe that's exactly what needs to be done, given that the funds are not in any way decentralised, to be directed in a way that goes by decentralisation of funds in a way that decentralises obligations towards local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59012	Thank you very much. Mrs. Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59013	Thank you very much. Comrade Poirot, it's true, this second part when I repeated I really said that nothing was done. It's true, they're decentralised, but they're not decentralised fiscal assets, they're not money decentralised. So, actually, it's a "fake," one premonition of decentralisation. You decentralize by decentralisation of power, and you achieve decentralisation of power by decentralisation of resources. Zagreb is an eclectic example of this. Centralize your power, don't put anything in the local neighborhood, in the city district.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59014	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Ivica Clem. He's not here either. And he's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic. He's not here either. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Pavlic, he's gone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Representative Jakša Marasovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Sir, on behalf of the Club of Representatives 5 minutes of debate, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, the Independent Representatives Club holds that these two bill proposals are only one part of the overall problem. We agree with the debated that it is necessary to join the state administration in a hasty manner. Of course, after that, reforms, or at the same time, reforms in the field of local self-government units, or rather regional self-government units. It seems to me that in some way and our task, if not the priority, given the negotiations with the European Union, that the European Union is asking us to do so, has been expressed both from the level and position of the representatives of the Government. It is absolutely certain that both in the government and in the competent ministries, this is what is being considered. It is also irrefutable that there are several proposals on Croatia's regionalisation. However, regionalisation of Croatia was spoken more at the level of statistics, but that the rounding of units of regional self-government is ahead of us. And under three, fiscal decentralisation which is extremely important, which after regionalization, i.e. rounding the territorial structure, I certainly assume will be simpler. What could possibly be concluded, and what I personally gained from the debate, and perhaps my personal debates, that, in some way, by discussing these two draft laws, there is a conflict, and about the units that will receive most of the cake, whether the units of local and regional self-government, or whether it will be given to the state. For me personally and for the Independent Advocacy Club, it's perfectly irrelevant. It is perfect whether, or not, it should be whether money is at the state level, or whether money is at unit level of local, regional self-government. However, life and implementation, the fiscal implementation actually reassures us, and it turns out that when we bring the state budget, it is a struggle, and it is understandablely linked to this fiscal part, which unit, which part of Croatia will withdraw from the state level as much as possible. I think that this is why it is necessary to rapidly approach precisely this fiscal decentralisation that it is legally necessary to frame the way the money is distributed that it should be significantly fairer, more evenly distributed somewhere at the level as we have heard here, 25 to 30%, with units of local, or regional self-government, with me more inclined to be close to 30% than 25%. The Independent Representatives Club holds these two draft laws in the package as just another attempt to access fiscal decentralisation very seriously, very quickly, to be taken from those who exercise power at this time under an urgent systematic solution regarding appropriate taxes in order to ensure that all parts of the Republic of Croatia are uniformly and evenly developed, i.e. that this unbalanced distribution from state to state-level units of local and regional self-government is corrected in a way that units of local and regional self-government participate in total tax revenues of close to 30%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59016	Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS Club of SBHS and MDS, Mr. Representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59017	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues allow us to say once again in the final five minutes some of our views regarding both decentralisation and regionalisation of Croatia. First of all, as a regional party club, we support the proposed laws, although we want to make it clear that these laws would not, in the very sphere of what they treat, bring anything revolutionary because these 300 and 300 million kunas that these proposed amendments and additions of both laws would actually get what from the state level, which from the level of the City of Zagreb compared to what cosmetics should do in the total decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia, namely what will happen for the next 5, 10 or 15 years on this topic, is really in the true sense of the word cosmetics. Croatia is a highly decentralised country that lives on model 90:5:5%, i.e. on a model of some 106 billion to 6.6 how far the capital goes and 6.5 as far as all counties and cities go, of course, this in billions of kunas. And imagine in relation to these percentages and these absolute figures, Croatia writes in its Constitution in its Article 4 that the regional state and a lot of MPs have mentioned the concept of the region many times in this Assembly and mentioned the concept of the region and regional self-government and I don't know what it is all about, and Croatia is not a regional state, Croatia has no region, the counties are not in any of its elements of existence. Countys are what they are, something between the municipality, the city and the state which is not defined to the end, and by the powers and by the revenues that the county has, they are something that is a disgrace and that should actually offend every Croatian voter, given that all Croatian counties, 20 of them, with 500 units of local self-government have as much as the City of Zagreb, and that is practically the same, we cannot talk about anything balanced in this country. As a result, tensions between the periphery and the center will grow. It's sociological insolence, and whoever doesn't want to see it, he's pushing his head into the sand. It'll grow. It will grow because it shows relations in the GDP, between 22 and 3 thousand dollars and 2 and 3 thousand dollars, between the position of Sibenik-Knin County, which is catastrophic by these data, Vukovar-Srijemska and Zagreb, the situation is such that only tensions will grow. Be assured. Also, data on unemployment rates clearly speak, while we have ends with rates of 6, 7 or 8%, we have those at 25% or 30%, the unemployment rate that says there's no one in these others to hire anywhere for the next years. And for this reason, we are surprised that such a proposal that makes a small procedure is being rejected, because this proposal is actually just an opening topic for something far more important to be done, which is that we need to form ourselves as a European country, where for example. The regions in European countries today have these 30% of which the colleague spoke a little while ago, and then another 5 or 10% of municipalities and cities. Therefore, normal relations are somewhere between 60% and 70% of countries, 30% to 40% of local and regional self-government, and that is the model on which the European Union countries operate, countries with which we want to be equaled by organisation and by all means, and when such proposals that initially unearth the doors of this topic come, then it is rejected. We personally hold that this is not good and that the years to come will constantly return this topic to the constituencies because governments insist that they will carry out a radical reform, and there is nothing from this reform. I recall that a few months ago it was announced that taxes and contributions for public employees would be paid in places where they live and work. However, this promise was made six months ago, nothing on the subject has been done, taxes and contributions remain for workers working in public enterprises are accounted for in the City of Zagreb and people, and people live all over Croatia, use infrastructure and have life needs for all parts of Croatia. All Croatian citizens cannot live in Zagreb and one of the intensities of what should be sought is to imperatively stop the physical growth of the City of Zagreb because further growth of the City of Zagreb is not in the interest of Croatian society and Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59018	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59019	Well, dear colleague Ivanis claimed, I quote, that the counties are a disgrace to the Croatian state. Not only is that incorrect, it's offensive. I believe that the counties have been very much through this past period together with local self-government units as one good example and have achieved extraordinary results in all areas. Perhaps today is the time to move forward, so to create smaller cities and municipalities or to organise ourselves differently, but I certainly believe it is very incorrect and offensive that you said that the counties are a disgrace to the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59020	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think the injured Rules of Procedure was that the honourable representative Rebic was correcting an allegation that wasn't there, which should then be determined. I said the county revenues are offensive, their position in relation to authority and what I can do, and Mr. Rebic if he wants to correct the allegations let him listen. ... Listen to your colleague, Rebic. Don't think. Listen. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59022	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Rebic hardened it, so he said, even quote, he even said quote, so he quoted something. However, you too had to specify an article of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59023	Here, my colleague says it's 209. I don't do it often, so I guess she told me right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59024	In addition, the county is a constitutional category. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honoring government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. True, the counties are a constitutional category but indeed sometimes the incomes of local self-government and regional self-government units are not, it is hardly possible to trick them into any section and it is shown that something in this area must be changed urgently. What we have already said in that previous debate, it is shown that reform is relatively easy to promise, especially before, every time in the pre-election campaign, each reform and so on the reform of local self-government is one of those topics that are almost in the vocabulary and in the content of all political parties. It turns out it's harder to do than say and it's almost impossible to implement. When you come to power then really no one can easily resolve the possibility of controlling and that we are really being brought into such a rather strange position that it is very important that you have, I don't know, a good relationship with the minister, with the Prime Minister and in such a way that you are really trying to solve these black holes in your budgets. And not to mention capital investments and everything else just because local self-government is very often in the position of this English queen. A lot of honor, but actually very little or almost no power. And it needs to be changed. What's the problem with reforms is whether they will succeed. That is, we could do it, or the Germans always say whether the reform will succeed will prove 10, 15, 20 years from its implementation. The more we belong to those a little bit more impatient nations in the world, and then indeed very, some of the results are already expected yesterday. It doesn't go easy and it doesn't go easy. But this uncertainty cannot really prevent us from trying to offer certain solutions that would be on the trail of what we stand for, which is evenly the development of the Republic of Croatia. Because this unbalanced development, it really has a whole series of these negative implications of political, economic, demographic and we have to take care of it. I don't think any government, no government has, can enjoy it, I don't know, living at the expense of tension between the periphery and the center. And always like here at the local level never enough decentralisation so much worse for those who behave this central government, they never get enough centralised. And I think that this bill, even though I said it wasn't fiscal decentralisation, but it's actually just trying to get something more evenly distributed tax revenues and nothing less. What we'd like on behalf of the club, which I would like to propose on behalf of the club, is to try to find one as simple as possible, as transparent a solution. And it is very important to establish this clear criterion of the allocation of funds from the state budget for local, or regional purposes in order to avoid these current arbitrary allocations for individual projects without clear criteria. In theory, you can also read that they say that much more damage in Europe has been done to the world by this arbitration rather than by autocratic power. It's that arbitration, that volunteerism I love- I don't love is something that I actually have to avoid. And just that attempt to really when people who realize the ability to exercise power at local level, don't really depend on what color the party flag is, I don't know, winding up in the Banian Courts. In a way, there is automation that, without some excessive political interventions of arbitrals, indeed, the problems of the local environment are solved. The more we must admit the same, the more Croatia did not develop evenly until the 1990s, and after the 1990s, indeed all the spaces did not develop in the same way because of the war. Some of them, we were all... to war, but still someone more, someone lucky and less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in some ways right now, the very wise central government has to run such a policy that it is with some stimulating mechanisms that it is going to try to balance and just lead to this development and life in certain areas being just as attractive, for example, as in big cities. I agree with all those who really talk about Zagreb as one big head on the weaker limbs and I say, we can be returned as one and a political, economic and demographic bomb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59026	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ministry representatives, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a couple of observations on behalf of the HSS Club. We agree and I believe that in fact there is no representative in this Chamber who does not think that decentralisation is necessary in terms of fiscal power which is now absolutely centralized. And the power and the money together, you know they create wonders. And therefore, when we talk about decentralisation either on this example in front of the HNS Club or on another example, we notice on behalf of the HSS as long as the central government, meaning the state, the strategy does not determine the strategic direction of development and against the even development of the Republic of Croatia does not allow all units of local administration and self-government under the same conditions as the heritage of all those resources needed for housing on any part of our beautiful, then we are talking about the uneven development of the Republic of Croatia. We are talking about arbitration decentralisation in a way that suits whom and which authority is at the head and that direction and those regions are developing. In fact, it is unacceptable to budget this small, now it is said whether it is 7, 5 or 9% of the state's general fiscal capacity left in local self-government that they are spent on state programmes and the development processes that the state should have done. I assure you from my experience, to maintain a state road in a village where you don't die to enter a program five or ten years old that your residents don't recognize whether it's a state program or a local, they require you to do it. No water lines in the village, gas pipelines, sewers, purifier etc. they do not say that it is a program of interest for the Republic of Croatia but they expect it, this heritage programme and that they can have drinking water in households and use it so that as we talk about decentralisation we must then both rights and obligations, we as a local self-government now get a simple burden, and they do not follow us resources and as long as it is such a situation we have a dissatisfaction on the ground, except for one part where, in a indirect way, the state budget funds are being poured into local administration units, I speak in an arbitration manner, and it is unacceptable because it is simply an outcast of the actual fiscal capacity of a state that is used in another way. Therefore, if we want a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia we must strictly divide both the rights and obligations, divide local self-government from the state administration and state programs, then as the local self-government of the upgrades that we must ensure the social activities, cultural, sports and those that our residents expect from us, we and we are happy to make and our residents are satisfied. Until this is done we have the dissatisfaction of the north by the south, the south by the north, east by the west, the city by the village, and I think at this time the biggest dissatisfaction of rural development is not progressing, it is stagnating or actually returning to the north while the cities have been saturated in a way that is filled with inhabitants and dissatisfaction and there is growing, so I think that in the name of the club HSS, too, thinks that this polisnitric development and even development of the entire Republic of Croatia must be a state programme where the local self-government must be the stone on the scale that satisfys the interests of every individual in that area where every resident expects to deal with certain activities, that there is an apartment in the place of living, and not the entire migration processes in Zagreb in the morning, in the afternoon from Zagreb, I think that it is not only Zagreb, but from all the centres where the activity is taking place, but all these opportunities. Then such or similar decentralisation will have absolutely its own justification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59028	Thank you very much. Does the proposaler's representative want a final review? He does. Mr. Jose Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59029	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I will not look back on what was the topic of this debate, I just want to thank everyone who participated in the debate, gave their contribution, show satisfaction to the Croatian People's Party's Representatives Club which this debate has caused attention and what this very important topic has come to the agenda and perhaps say a few words about what to do next. Namely, there were talks here that the government would submit a full programme of decentralisation to the Croatian Parliament. Let me express my suspicion that this will happen. The right decentralisation, which would include at least a double increase in the income of local self-government units, is a major political task, and it will be difficult for any government, and thus this Government of the Republic of Croatia to move into that job in the second half of its mandate, especially since the effects and possible large decentralisation would come in the election year, therefore it is difficult to expect, but it loved that circumstances and events that would follow the convictions, so that it would really approach a serious procedure of decentralisation, and of course any decentralisation can only be complete. If things are well monitored, there is no decentralisation of powers as one procedure, and decentralisation of finance as another procedure. These two procedures, if it is of course serious business, must go with each other. So, I would like my assessment that this government is going to have a hard time going into this procedure, it is not true that I am aware of what the Government will do next months or next year, or two days, and according to what the Government has given as its opinion in addition to these proposals, it is saying that it will propose specific laws that allow the application of the recently adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, so in this context, in addition to all the specific laws of the Government, it also suggests amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government units. I would like, of course, that this amendment and the addition of the law, that is, those special laws that will implement de facto this Law, which has been passed as strong as possible, every shift in the development of local and regional self-government is welcome, I will only repeat our fundamental position that it is definitely mature time for the Republic of Croatia to take bigger steps than it has done so far to develop, i.e. to strengthen local and regional self-government. We will see which government will have the courage to do so, but the basic political logic suggests that in such large, large procedures that can of course have difficulties like any serious and major reform, it can be difficult to start in the second half of the mandate. Here again, I thank everyone for the contribution, and I am afraid that we will have the opportunity to discuss this bill again, these two bill proposals, which actually means that the next amendments to the law announced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am afraid, will not include these changes. If this does not happen, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will again propose these two legislative proposals for adoption to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59030	Thank you very much. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59031	Under 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profit. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HNS. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profit proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? For conclusion 68, abstentions 5, 31 against. The majority adopted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59241	and we move to the 3rd point of the purified agenda – - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Income Act – Proposer Zlatko Kramarić, first reading P.Z. No. 417 You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59242	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Here, let me make a few shorter notes, actually, which motivated me to refer this amendment and supplement of the Income Tax Act to the parliamentary procedure. I think I share your opinion that after that 2001 census that we were very uncomfortable that only 7% of our residents were highly educated in Croatia. And that is far below the average of the Member States of the European Union. We have decided in many of our strategic documents that we will follow international trends and recommendations regarding the modernisation of the educational programme and the reform of education. One of these attempts is what we introduced last year and the "bolon process" in higher education institutions. The question is how long now is, I have to say right away the same as a university professor how hasty it really was and to say so... The reform is that I say it is easy to promise, something harder to implement, and on the results we'll say we'll wait but it seems to me that it was quite hasty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But regardless of the fact that the "bolon process" was introduced and I say we should expect the first results. In the medium term, this commitment of the Republic of Croatia will result in a more educated population ready to respond to the challenges and needs of the modern economy. What we have comments on this reform is I say implemented ad hoc quite quickly without adequate information from the public about the objectives of all reforms and changes in the system of higher education, and even those directly involved, so teachers and students with still here are going on, has already passed the first semester, still haven't really collated in the right way exactly all these problems but it seems to us that we just need to further encourage the public that and she I say actively participates in the system of higher education. In our opinion at the HSLS Club, additional incentives are needed to target the working-active population in order to focus on modernising education and the results of the reform and a positive impact on the economy in our opinion could be felt in relatively short time. Incentive to a working-active population does not only have a promotional character but it is an essential prerequisite for enabling the education of people working in low-paid jobs and these personnel remain in prison in jobs despite their potentials because of their material and educational situation. And I say, the adoption of this law should foster the interest of the population in education and education to make practically available to all segments of society. As she has been here for several weeks talking about the passing of this law many colleagues and people who have asked me why we are going with it have said that little of this reminds them of Shuvar's reform. I must admit that in the 1980s I was opposed to that reform then as a young assistant from a position of humanistic science, a paradigm of the 19th century. I thought what Shuvar was trying to do was not a good move. But as time actually shows, it certainly wasn't skillfully done and it was too ideological. Now I don't think I have to give it any fences, but actually, my colleague Shuvar was 20 years ago and he was kind of feeling a problem that was about to come up and then his syntagma factory, school. I know, I'm saying she always sounded like this ideologically, she had this very negative ideological party layer, but actually, man hit actually processes that we would have to give an answer to today in 2006. You see, if you compare the data from the European Union's educational statistics with our country's statistics, we will see how our educational workforce is static, unlike the average worker of the European Union, who, during the working life, has several changes in interest and jobs and who spends a total working life through some kind of education. And certainly, I remember we had, in the last term, I think it was school or education, here we had thematic discussions for the 21st century. I was saying then, it was 2001, 2002. Someone who thinks like this has the courage to suggest something that will be worth a hundred years then at the very least a man would say such an optimist, not to say a more difficult word. Normally, I know it sounds so nice, it's these so bombing headlines but I'm afraid that today's reforms and I can't work outside for more than ten years, precisely because that change is as quiet as it is... These scientific revolutions occur much faster than they happened in the 19th and even in the good part of the 20th century. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The scientific revolutions that have occurred there since the 1970s, the 1980s, in fact, in ten years we have managed to master a few centuries. And we need to be aware of that. And the very idea of this law is to encourage that mobility. So labour mobility as one of the fundamental principles of the European Union is not a political parole but is actually the result of a series of measures that make it possible to do so most precisely in the field of education. Although in the existing tax system, we must be honest, there are tax reliefs for professional training of workers they are designed for employers who decide to finance the education of their employees. But now let's wonder how the vast majority of employers behave. It does not use these reliefs, does not encourage high - education workers, since such workers would normally have to spend some of their time elsewhere rather than at work. On the other hand, employers have selected employees with the necessary level of education, whether they are primary school or high. But precisely because of this high unemployment rate in Croatia, it is very often happening to us that we do not know where we need to know the middle professional prepares working people with high professional equipment. And now you're wondering who would now have some interest in the employer financing the study of a high school student, a woman who, for example, works at the cashier's office and allows her to get out of work because she can simply hire a finished person and solve all her problems, means that she has a higher level of education and does not require additional financial investment. And on the other hand, this person with high school equipment does not have any concrete incentive to decide that his extra free time should be further engaged and to allocate certain funds for higher education. I say that's why this existing tax relief is almost completely missed and it needs it in some other here that we are now free and we have suggested it. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that most students do not earn income is correct if we consider it as a total student population that attends high schools on its cost. Employees cannot regularly study at higher universities but participate in an extraordinary education programme at these universities. The vast majority of students attending higher schools are taxpayers on income. According to data from the State Institute of Higher School Statistics, there are nearly 37,000 such students. This proposal would have an impact on a significant number of taxpayers' income tax students. For an illustration at high schools, about 17,000 students annually graduated. According to data from the State Statistics Institute of the total number of regular students enrolled, only 10% of them completed the study. In the case of extracurricular students, it's something bigger. It's going around 15%. We believe that it is entirely justified to tax-deliver individuals who, in order to ensure their own existence and to fill the state budget, achieve better results in the education system and thus contribute to competitiveness and our economy. This proposal primarily aims at employees who, due to their property status and education, are found in jobs of lower complexity despite their potentials. The Government of the Republic of Croatia itself recognises this fact in its plan to develop a system of education and education in which we quote: "A large number of young people do not enter a study that meets their expectations and abilities because of their material condition. By adopting this bill, we will encourage employees to additional education and enable those who are educated to concentrate on education, not on existential minimum." It should not be too wise to conclude that both the state and the tax system will benefit from such a model in the long term, given that any person who completes a specific programme of education or training will be more competitive on the labour market and will earn a higher salary, making the fiscal cashier as well as the tax and old and new salaries of workers. This draft law also directly contributes to the Government of Croatia's objective of enabling equal conditions of education for all in accordance with their abilities and not only at a declarative level but also as a concrete measure which is visible to every employee every month through a form of salary accounting. I'm saying if we've already declared that higher education or higher education is the strategic goal of this country then it would be a good idea to do this with one really small change and addition, it's really just an article if I'm not wrong 36. To be behind paragraph 27. The income tax law adds three new items that are going to do so in such a tiny little way just to contribute that the strategic plan that we have proclaimed and behind which this government stands and we give it more or less support in this Parliament and how exactly, as I say we would really realize this idea that these changes, these paradigms and all of this is waiting for us in the 21st century that we actually know how to respond even though I belong, I'm not so young anymore, but I also know all the efforts that we should, I don't know that from a typewriter you can go to the laptop, and I think that soon the laptop will actually be... /The speaker doesn't understand./... "passes" and that some other technologies are waiting for us, and you won't be able to answer that exactly if you don't allow people to and educate. Nothing falls from the sky and nothing is a gift but something I should say and effort, and I think that this, that this law and I pray clubs, clubs and MPs that will discuss it, but more importantly by their vote, will allow the team no longer to be needed here are... These financial experts at HSLS told me that there is no need to provide specific resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia so that indeed there is one concrete measure that will give both very quickly and the results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59243	Thank you very much. Would the Committee’s rapporteur like to take the floor as well? No, I don't. A representative of the government, too. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad to be able to support this fellow Caine initiative on behalf of the HNS Club. Cain is so much behind the pay phone that I've had it all the time, colleagues Kramaric. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Two tragic facts about Croatian education have been revealed over the past few years. One is that the percentage per secondary educated people in Croatia is somewhere between 7 and 10%, depending on what is taken as a basis. And all the time we've been talking about how, for decades, we've been telling us that our comparative advantage is the exceptional education of our workforce and how we can get into this Europe without any problem. This percentage is on average 15 in the European Union countries, and those we want to look up to like Ireland, Finland and similar to 20 and 25%. It is evident that this cannot only be caught by a wider coverage of a regular population who, at age 18, goes into higher education but also something that used to be called, I don't know if it's still supposed to be today, but it used to be called lifelong education, work education or what? It is these people that counterpart Kramaric is talking about in this proposal. These are people who enroll extraordinary studies, so they're on their own after they got a job with high school. They're trying to fix their status, their family status. I had the opportunity to participate in the establishment of an institution that educates such people at the level of... I mean... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I admire those people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I admire people who after 8 or 10 hours of work are able to arrive this afternoon, to be on class till 7.8 p.m. Come home. Tomorrow morning at 6:00, go to work, not see your family, not see anyone. I've been doing exams over the weekend. And be better students than these regulars. Now how can we increase that percentage? One is a direct application to this percentage of educated people. Direct application of the principle of the Bologna Declaration. A faster and more efficient study. That's what we do for a population that regularly goes through the study. Let's hope that this Bologna that we've actually applied to our system in this school year, I'm not going to say that we've introduced our system, but applied to our system that it's really going to work, that it's going to give some results. Another aspect of the problem is that universities and universities are not only in Croatia, in all the world are actually relatively inert and three institutions that are difficult to adapt to new programmes, new ways of working and a new number of students. We saw it this year when the minister signed in 20 percent of the students. The colleges fell into a trance more or less. They were stifled with it, and they didn't know how to digest those extra kids in the studies. This is why professional studies are, and most of these people go to study in professional studies, it is precisely professional studies that can better meet current requirements with their flexibility and mode of work. Those professional studies are being paid. Most common and regular, and remarkable without exception. I don't know any outstanding studies that students don't pay for themselves. So besides all the hard work expected of these people, and helping themselves, their family, and thus the whole community, besides all this hard work, should be paid between 10 and 20 thousand kuna per school year after academic year. This way, at least that part of the burden would make it a little easier for them. So, what's proposed? Direct incentives are proposed for employees to be educated, so they can work on more skilled and complex jobs tomorrow, get higher wages, pay higher taxes. This is a matter which will return to the budget in the final instance and to another, on some long deadline. In fact, it could be this bill of law and visionary. Can I compliment you? Visionary in the sense that the minister also emphasizes it every so much between the lines, and that is clear in itself that higher education will little by little become the financial burden of every man. We're going to have to act like Americans and how people in Western Europe behave, when a child is born, an account opens and saves for his education. In this situation, education and a child must, of course, be kind of stimulated by tax relief. I believe that in the near future there will be a proposal to amend the law that would regulate it. Namely, these tax reliefs that stand in the current text of the law concern housing, regarding treatment. It seems to me that this aspect, therefore, of education and trying to catch a connection with that world that runs so fast that a man has to run to stand in place, is at least equally important and equally valuable and deserves a place within these tax reliefs that are now in the law. The HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59245	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Plasimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so maybe, to be honest, I'm sorry that such significant topics are in the late afternoon hours. However, I will personally at the beginning with this one of my... which it is late in the afternoon to express the satisfaction that even included in the agenda such a significant topic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I would just like to point out in the beginning that we will support these amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act proposed by fellow MP Professor Zlatko Kramarić. Let me make a few of our observations on behalf of the HSS Club. I may be a little bit general, but believe me, this topic is so important and too important that it takes and more to say than just these few sentences that stand in the bill. In today's post-industry society, which we often call an information society, all politicians are generally declared to be truly the century of knowledge. Although I don't think that the century can possibly be the time period that we would talk about, and I agree with the promoter that maybe 50 years from now it'll be another time and when we'll talk about other technologies. Because even today, we are all aware of how total and information technology and telecommunications are, etc. They develop quickly and what computer technology shows. So the information society has been marking these decades and the information society still needs a knowledge society. The opening argument said that the share of the highly educated population was about 7%, slightly more close to 8%, as in which part of Croatia, far too far, far too small for our goals as a country that has high-quality people, good personnel, which have shown themselves in many areas, and our scientists are world-renowned experts in any part of the world. Although we say that these 8%, or 7%, of the highly educated population are far too little, then it's logical that we have to, or if at least because we all declare ourselves together, then we really have to fix it. It is not enough just to talk about the conditions or ways of reform in higher school education. Reforms in primary and secondary education should also be continued, as overall reforms in higher-school education are then significantly easier to implement. Many countries have devoted a lot of time and money to preparing for a comprehensive strategy on education processes in order, of course, to prepare themselves better for today’s day. I won't remind you of Ireland and Israel, but they started with such processes almost 18 years ago, almost 20 years ago, and now they have such good results. As I said, today's most important resource knowledge. And we're all wondering together how to get to an increased number of high school educated people. The answer is very simple. Only the strategic commitment to investment in knowledge is the only proper commitment. We have a strategic plan today, but we do not have an operational overall strategy to raise the level of knowledge of the population. We're late. It's obvious, and there's not much need to be elaborated on. For this topic, the topic of investment in knowledge and in general knowledge, we could easily find consensus in political parties, only need goodwill and move forward with certain processes and individual segments as quickly as possible. This amendment and supplementation of the Income Tax Act affects that population that is now believed or not, but as a colleague, Kramarić as a professor at the university, I have the opportunity to talk to that population almost every week and they feel most threatened. This involves mostly a mature life of between 30 and 40 years, and there should also be additional stimulation for those individuals who understand and understand that personal investment in knowledge and throughout life education can survive, as well as progress. We're talking about requalification in the simplest way, from schooling for survival in the profession. On behalf of the HSS Club, I would suggest that this topic is also being prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it would be good to include it in the particular essence of subsidisation and other types of assistance, how to help to raise the level of knowledge of such a population, but the overall population of our population. Greater knowledge or higher level of education will certainly have a higher productivity and a better quality product for the result, and thus we will be competitive in the European market as a whole, and that is our goal, as far as we can get into this very complex and demanding European market. It was said here about an extraordinary study. Indeed, in these processes of adapting our high school education in the Bologna process, I must say that in colleges, we have all come across a whole series of obstacles from spatial and ultimately to and from human resources, but we are able to adapt as much to these new requirements as possible. However, the question arises whether they have all prepared enough for it together. Obviously, there will be more and more interest. The tuitions are bigger and the question is how to help these people, because they're not usually directors, they're usually some middle profession that works in some places that are less paid, and the tuitions are really not small. In my opinion, the government should make a decisive turn and help people just like that. Raising the level of education of this category of population would certainly make the Republic of Croatia more concrete. Here I am not talking about it, and it can really talk a lot about it from any aspect, I would once again, on behalf of the Cuba Croatian Peasant Party, support this proposal and, of course, invite other fellow MPs to support this proposal through their clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59247	Thank you very much. Individually, Mr. Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm unusually sorry that we're having this little discussion about this big problem and that we're talking about it in the late hours without public interest. I would in fact stress the needs of that 300 thousand unemployed in Croatia, which unfortunately has not been reduced in relation to these proposals and the amendments to the laws issued by my colleague Kramaric. It is true that government representatives say in a comment on the amendments and addition of the Income Tax Act, that there are existing payment exemptions, especially in high school education, when employers refer someone to education. However, the most important issue has not been resolved. What to do is 300 thousand people who, in principle, fail to come to the employment office every day, and they would have a chance to requalify, I mean in requalification and changing studies and obtaining an additional degree or specialization. It is generally known that in some areas of Croatia, there is a lack of personnel and it is highly educated. It is generally known that these are areas of special state interest, however, I am responsible for saying that people who are there at the employment office who, by a light study, could be moved from the interest of a graduate engineer to a professor, should get their chance. How can one who is unemployed, who lives in such conditions single out money for schooling, pay tuition, and also support the costs of studies that are not for a few days but in principle and in a few years. However, we cannot say now, we have too much exemption in the Income Tax Act, we need to talk about the needs that Croatia has. It is absolutely certain that Croatia needs to address the lack in the structure of highly educated and it is absolutely certain that Croatia should have a sensitivity to the needs that arise in the labour market. There are some needs on the labour market, but there are no reports. There are no applicants, of course, because they did not complete the necessary course of education. By privatizing it is generally known, we have lost 400,000 jobs, I think that through the bankruptcys that were after that and during this period today, we have lost another hundred thousand and people are simply demoted, they don't believe in the future, they're looking for a chance to start to say, a new life. It is generally known that in the west people decide to study in the late years even at 60 years of age. It is generally known that both occupations and calls are changing in the west several times during the working century. The model should also be established in Croatia. However, I think not only should we install it into the law but the government should also work with high school institutions and a special project to call it requalifications and qualifications of educated, highly educated, i.e. those who in a simple and fast way, but also in a relatively cheap way can get to a diploma and can find their jobs and do their last working day in peace and get conditions for retirement. This is one status quo. We say, a large number of unemployed, large income tax exemptions, let people do it on their own, do it without a strategy and even without some at least operational tactics that they should absolutely certainly have and for which the competent ministries could probably make a common approach. I don't think it's a good answer we have too many releases because it's actually neutral. Someone already said, we can go to school today, they'll pay us back through taxes and contributions tomorrow. I believe that these people who are at the institution and who believe that further learning and education could do something for themselves and for society to deserve a chance. And that is why I will personally support this good proposal by Professor Kramaric, who, finally, once again said unfortunately has caused too much attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59249	Thank you very much. Does the promoter want to speak to you in a final manner? Here you go. Mr. Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honoring government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the journey around the world begins with this first step and no matter what only two clubs and one colleague have said, but most importantly, almost 100% support, it's really rare in this House to hear. And it seems to me that the bug in her ear was put in. A man who is such a visionary should then have this ambition to be aware that his ambition does not have to be realised immediately. But this is a really important problem that we're going to face in one way or another, and we better face it before, we better get ready. I mean, right now, I'm saying, intervention procedures aren't like that we're really leading to some kind of revolution. I would take this silence and, in particular, two of the biggest clubs as actually a sign of support, and that indeed when the vote is taken the day after tomorrow, this law will be properly valorised. It is precisely because this fact called Europeanisation and modernisation of education and adaptation of citizens, above all, is something that we cannot avoid. And I'm saying, I want to believe that this one, too, looks like this, perhaps at first sight, a painful or uneasy silence, silence is actually nothing more than a sign of approval or simply perhaps a sign of fatigue in front of these issues because it may always seem to us that they are more daily, more politically, where we get along more easily. And yet this is one law that I say, the bill of law that is living, and it will very quickly produce results because life itself will force us to do so. Thank you for these kind words, colleagues who spoke for the clubs. And I'm just hoping that Friday we'll get support for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59251	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59252	Third, a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act. Proposer of the law is representative Zlatko Kramarić. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act proposed by MP Zlatko Kramarić is not adopted, for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 69 votes for, 9 abstentions and 19 against, the proposed conclusion was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59253	We move to - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on road transport, first reading, P.Z. No. 412 – Proposer Zeljko Pecek. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply in the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Mr. Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to welcome the government's representatives, but they're not here. Obviously, they are not interested in the subject, and they should probably be asked why they are not interested. I believe that the reasons are precisely in this bad law that should perhaps be discussed as little as possible in Parliament so that all its bad provisions do not come out of sight, as well as motives that may still be valid because the law does not want to change. Namely, here in the Parliament I will say nothing caused we have passed the Law on road transport which we have defined that in Croatia trucks older than 18 years cannot transport regardless of their technical correctness. And we also said that buses older than 10 years can't be used for the transport of students, regardless of whether they're fully trafficked. The deadline given for the application of this Law on Harmonisation was only one year, which was already an insurmountable obstacle to a large number of those who have such a rolling stock that is over 18 and 10 years old and is estimated to be around 30 thousand in Croatia. And the government changed that deadline, though, that is still interesting for Christmas around 25.12. and then we congratulate in this way mostly the craftsmen and small entrepreneurs of Christmas because we tell them that here we are with our kindness and insights ready to extend the application of the Law. By the way, which only we Croats have. He doesn't exist in any other country in Europe. I haven't done any further research, probably in the world. What's going on? You have a truck that's 18 years and 1 day. You can't open the craft if you come to the state office because the age of the vehicle is a constraint. Of course, if you have an older turn with that truck, you can't drive in Croatia, but if you move to Slovenia, if you move to Austria, Germany or anywhere else, you can drive because it's not a vehicle age condition, it's the technical correctness of the vehicle. And that we're trying to bring it down to a simple language. If an eco-engine is installed on an old vehicle, if the most modern brakes that exist in the world and the control system are installed, then in any case this truck is better than some that are 3, 4 or 5 years old. But he can't traffic, I say, for our unexplainable reasons. The Minister responsible for Transport prescribes these special conditions and prescribes specific regulations that must be met by vehicles carrying out road transport, but does not want to respond to one of the amendments to the laws already in the parliamentary procedure, as this is the intensity and proposal of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which is the most relevant. However, let's try to change that legal text, let's try to bring it in line with the most basic Croatian law called the Constitution, because in particular Articles 48 and 49. The Constitution defines this because by eradicating the terms of the age of the vehicle as a special condition for the exercise of activity or business, we will protect the right of ownership in Croatia. We forget that this way to the entrepreneur who invested the funds, who bought the truck, who bought the bus, who took it on credit or on a liening and who in most cases has not yet paid it off, we prevent it from working. I believe that in this way we also restrict his fundamental constitutional principle of entrepreneurial freedom because he should decide for himself his business venture in accordance with positive regulations which can only define the technical correctness and of course the equipment of the vehicle. The fundamental question is why we do not want to equate the conditions that must be met by vehicles to the conditions laid down by the regulations in the Member States of the European Union. Why do we put those 28, 29 thousand owners of freighters and about a thousand 400 thousand buses in an unfavourable position? I believe that this should be much simpler regulated through this Law and should allow people to carry out entrepreneurial ventures for which they have bought property. This is how we're in a weird situation where we don't know what and why it's happening. In all of Croatia there are about 144 thousand trucks, I said 28 thousand and some are over 18 years old. Of course, when they talked to the ministry, they said, so it's time for those Croatian craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, to buy new trucks, we're just scaring them, we're preparing them for the European Union because we'd like them to join the European Union with the young, with new or with younger trucks. Well, gentlemen, who wouldn't want to buy a new truck and a slightly younger truck if that material condition allowed it? Of course, everyone would want to, but if the government could probably come up with these restrictive provisions, you should come up with a program to help these people both finance and rebuild the fleet so that it looks different in reality. I think that Croatia deserves a different rolling stock, I know their bad environmental performance, but if these people are left to themselves, if we just pass regulations that are against their activities, of course they can't do anything. There is another interesting question why is the government making changes to the laws? If you are noticing this bill is referred to in the procedure of December 12th, so in the period when the Parliament was sitting, it is referred to the procedure by emergency procedure because there are 25 signatures of MPs here, but we did not want to talk about it. The government, however, has also delayed the application of this provision on the age of the vehicle for another year. However, I ask myself a question, I would be interested in answering this question to representatives of the government who, unfortunately, have no reason to delay the application of the law to regulations? Why do they not want the Parliament to discuss this, especially if the proposal is referred to as an emergency procedure? And what's most important is that we try to talk about these people who are also full of the state budget and who are making their contribution so that we can work here in the Parliament. Today I read in the press that the Croatian Chamber of crafts has sent a proposal to the Government to extend the payment of taxes and contributions because there are about 35,000 craftsmen in the blockade, somewhere the value of the blockade is around 4 billion kuna, and the reason they are asked to be delayed for a long time by paying these taxes and contributions and other fees is that the state is in debt to them, however, of course with the state they cannot compensate. What they need to pay the state if they don't pay within the deadline is a 15 per cent tight interest, for their claim from the state must not even be asked because they say next time they will lose their job, and God forbid they could compensate with the state because it is on the one hand as a believer and on the other hand as a debtor of the state. However, now we return to this main issue that is being protected and who is being weighed down by the Government, or by a competent ministry who does not want to accept such initiatives and who obviously does not want to participate in this debates? It's absolutely certain that they're stretching the big ones against the little ones. Of course, these 30,000 small ones are quite unorganized and powerless in the fight with large transport companies, and this battle is unequal because they have a more high-quality rolling stock, somewhat younger, they can come up with a loan, a Leesing and all the financial operations that the fleet can restore in a relatively short time, especially if they get big jobs, and they will naturally get big jobs if they cancel out these 30,000 small ones, so that is the aim of the lobby that managed to install these provisions on the age of 18 years and the age of a 10-year-old bus into the law. I'm here for the Parliament speaker right now, and I'm saying that the government weighs the big ones over the small ones. What further does the government weigh? The government also extends the entry of large companies from abroad into the Croatian market. It is generally known that in Slavonia there is one car carrier that had a monopoly, it could be said for that part of Croatia that it was sold to foreign capital, it is generally known that there is a great interest in the area of Sibenik of foreign capital to enter the transport around TLM and in the area of Dalmatia. And it is generally known that we are expected for a few months to privatise Croatia's largest carrier, Chazmatransa, which has the largest freight transport and the largest bus transport. However, is there any real reason for such conduct? I don't think there's any real reason for the government's behavior and the D.O.D. Which is why such lobbies manage to build such provisions into the law, I don't understand it until the end. Probably not to you either. I'm absolutely sure someone has special reasons for such behavior. I wouldn't say it too loudly, but according to my thinking, there are elements of corruption if in this way we direct someone to get a monopoly on the Croatian market, to achieve monopoly prices, and to push small ones out of that market, obviously from extreme urgency, going into business and we're trying to break the Constitution in some way because we're restricting them in entrepreneurial freedoms to take away this little job they barely came to. In other words, it is high time we changed this law because there is no reason that the law says that the criteria for doing business in a truck transport have a vehicle under 18 years old and that the criterion is to have a bus under 10 years old. That's all that's written in Croatian law. He was brought by the Croatian government. Which is why I would ask the Ministry's representatives if they were here, but I'm going to ask them another way. I'm sure there are elements of corruption here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59255	Thank you very much. We have a few corrections. First, Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Agent Pecek, I support your bill, I absolutely support it. But they incorrectly claimed in their statement that the government extended this deadline to a year. True, and the government writes that it did so by a regulation and extended the deadline until December of this year without knowing that it was granted only until the tenth month of this year so that it could regulate the matter they would pass on to me. So ex-lege by law her regulation is only valid until the tenth month of this year. When the authority stops, the regulation will stop, and you're absolutely right. Unfortunately, the government is in disrepair, in the process of reason why your law refuses because it claims that a lot of requests went to the ministry to extend the deadline and abolish this restriction and you reject the law. So the government violates both the Constitution and unwisely rejects the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59257	Correction Mr. Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Pecek, it is incorrect that Chazmatrans is the largest bus carrier in Croatia. It is a group of bus traffic Varazdin which still has Croatia's bus and Auto Transport Sibenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59259	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59260	I would correct the quote of an esteemed colleague who literally said that the government weighs largely in relation to small ones, that the government supports lobbys and that this is an obvious example of corruption, or that the government is actually supporting corruption by its activity in the sense of not accepting these and such legislative proposals. That's absolutely not true. We of course can and should talk about these things but not in this way or not in the way that the motionary said for this speaker. In fact, he reduced his argument to a direct and unargumented accusation, the government's assault, and that no valid argument for such a serious charge has actually expressed what actually reflects both the content and essence of his debate and the bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59261	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MP Pecek also made the false allegations about the privatisation of Promal in TLM, meaning the transport units of the Light Metal Factory in Sibenik. The competition was public, clear and transparent and all those who wanted and who had interest could come forward. However, the government and, of course, the management insisted that the law be respected and that the principle of better offer be respected and that the offer that provides be accepted, which guarantees that 58 employees who are in Promal will continue to work because they have been guaranteed that they cannot be fired from work for three years. Therefore, the decision was taken in the interest of TLM and, of course, also in the interests of the employees or the provision of public places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59263	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59264	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, esteemed ladies and gentlemen! The Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee at the 40th session held on 2 February 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on road transport, first reading, P.Z. 412, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by representative Mr Zeljko Pecek. The Committee discussed the proposal for a law amending the Road Transport Act as a home working body in accordance with Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure. The opening statement was given by the representatives of the applicants who stressed that this proposal proposes to regulate the question of the age of the vehicle in such a way as to delete a special condition for vehicles according to which the public road transport activity of passengers and freight can only be carried out with vehicles, trucks and buses under 18 years of age or for the carriage of pupils by buses under 10 years of age. They consider that there should be no criterion of age of the vehicle but technical correctness and that this way would protect many entrepreneurs. They are also of the opinion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by means of a regulation extending the deadline for the coordination of business to legal and natural persons by 24 December 2006, did not solve the problem and that it would be better if the deadline had not been extended. The Government's representative pointed out that the adoption of the regulation has extended the time for entrepreneurs to prepare and comply with their dealings with the provisions of the law because the degree of competition in the European Community will be strong and will not be competitive on the market with regard to the strict criteria of the European Community. The debate highlights opinions that are not supported by this bill. It is estimated that the regulation extending the deadline for another year will solve nothing but that the law should not have changed or should not have given in to pressures. It is particularly emphasized that old vehicles are polluting the environment. It has been pointed out that there should be ways to stimulate entrepreneurs to rebuild the rolling stock through tax relief and other measures. The Committee members consider that accurate information should be collected on the condition of the vehicle for the transport of passengers and cargo in terms of age, equipment, new vehicles and the like in order to determine the real situation and to consider more quality options for solving this problem. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority vote 7 on and one against the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: no draft law amending the road transport law is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59265	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, Mr. Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59266	Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues of this Proposal for a Law amending the Transport Act on road transport proposes to delete paragraphs 1 and 2 in point 6 of the applicable law and these items to be recalled say: 1st paragraph says: "The share of road transport of passengers and cargo can be carried out by vehicles under 18 years of age." And two. "Extremely from paragraph 1 of this Article when it comes to special line transportation of students from and to school transport may be carried out by vehicles under the age of 10." This proposal, which we have the Law amending the Road Transport Act, was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament in December, more precisely on December 12th 2005. The date is important because these existing items were already in force. And because it's December 26, 2005. The Government shall, in accordance with Article 103(3). The Law on road transport provides that all natural and legal persons carrying out their activity under that law will comply with their business in accordance with the provisions of the Law within one year of the date of entry into force of the Law. The same Article of the Law but paragraph 4 requires that legal and natural persons who do not comply with their business in accordance with the abovementioned paragraph 3 cease to carry out their activities, which will be determined by a decision by the Ministry of State Administration in the county or the administrative body of the city of Zagreb in charge of traffic operations. The deadline for harmonisation was set at 24 December 2005 and therefore made sense that Proposer Pecek had previously proposed the amendment. However, as the relevant Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development has provided a large number of applications for prolonging the deadline and this initiative has also been supported by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, as well as by the carriers themselves of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by the Regulation amending the Law on Transport in Road Transport, on the basis of the government's law, has extended that deadline for harmonisation until December 2006, so until the end of this year. The applicant considers that the vehicle’s correctness criterion should only be the technical correctness of the vehicle and not the age of the vehicle and thus protect a lot of entrepreneurs. We believe that the vehicle's correctness criterion and therefore traffic safety should also be the technical correctness and age of the vehicle because we are daily witnesses to what kind of vehicles there are on the road dangerous for traffic safety, and all of them have passed the technical correctness. That year's technical exam. Also, by entering the European Union, competition in road transport will be very strong, and during the night, transporters in this regard cannot make a difference or change is necessary already, as long as negotiations and the day of entry into the European Union are near as best prepared for this game as possible for competition. We don't feel like it's good to put everything on the road under the same criteria. And cargo and passengers, especially school kids. In practice, it happens, unfortunately, that spending buses that are not for long competitive passenger lines are actually pushed into local lines for the transport of school children. And we think it's better to extend this harmonisation... transport vehicles for a year, which means by the end of 2006, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done, rather than completely abolish those provisions as proposed by MP Pecek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the HDZ Club will not support this proposal by Agent Pecek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59267	Correction first, Mr. Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59268	Dear Mr. President Nenadic incorrectly said the government regulation is valid until mid-December this year. My colleagues are incorrect! Either you have not followed the course of the debate so far or you have not followed it when the debate on the Government Regulation was held, the regulations adopted by the Government. It ex-lege ceases to be valid in mid-October this year. So don't be incorrect, you're trying to defend the government but very incorrectly and very superficially.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59269	Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague said that even in this additional year, carriers will actually adapt to the requirements of joining the European Union. A colleague just isn't right. This Regulation, which is also the law which now exists unless amendments and amendments to the Law proposed by fellow Pecek are adopted, these carriers will not be adapted. They will be destroyed. They will be, their activity stops, and they become social cases. It's not an adjustment. The adjustment is to make them adapt and allow them to have new vehicles. So how will they be enabled? If they're given the opportunity to work. And this law that is now in force he forbids them to work. He forbids them in that way and adapts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59271	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, two MPs. Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac and Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59272	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry wherever they may be. The IDS Club supports this proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act because it corrects the unnecessary provisions of the laws adopted in December 2004. It was necessary to comply by the end of 2005 and that legislation lays down conditions for carrying out activities other than those applicable to the age of the vehicle, although the applicant did not state the reasons for such regulation. I'm talking about basic law, of course. Especially with regard to previous and now applicable legislation under which the Transport Minister prescribes specific conditions on how vehicles must meet certain conditions. We know that no European law knows the condition of the age of the vehicle. That is why the same issue of harmonisation with the laws of the European Union does not stand in this case. That's where the vehicles have to be technically correct. Even a technical examination may be done more frequently than in the Republic of Croatia. I have to warn you of another fact, and it is the same way that the problem of an ambulance driver who has had to have a medium professional training, a professional category of driver, and now the minister in charge of traffic is above the law, and he has passed the rule that only drivers of emergency medical care must have a "B" category, which naturally raises the question of drivers who have met all of these conditions so far. And the question arises how can the minister be raised above the law. So we in the IDS are wondering when we'll start following our own laws, when the laws will be above regulations and regulations? Because we saw that the regulation was also made the way it wasn't supposed to be passed. Third, when are we going to seriously start to deal with harmonisation of EU legislation and when are we going to stop removing acquired rights from our citizens? Because 28 thousand trucks that are over 18 years old are thousands of 369 buses. We need to be aware that these people depend on us and that they're bound to work for sure. I don't see why, if some trucks, buses are right, no matter how old they are, I can't drive. Because it's logical that if the old piece of shit goes to the technical examination that that technical examination shouldn't go through. And if it passes, then the question arises whether it's done through a relationship or whether it's really done in a way that potentiates corruption. On the other hand, we have 171 thousand 317 citizens who have addressed the Chamber of crafts, or have signed a petition against a legal provision of 0.0 prominence. So here we have 170 thousand, here 28 thousand, 200 thousand citizens of this country are against some legal provisions. And I think that also these 170 thousand who signed a petition against the legislation on 0.0 promiscations, and in September 2004, and the same petition were sent to our Parliament President, Mr Vladimir Seks, who doesn't care about the opinion of the 170 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Because since September 2004, that law has been on the agenda. Of course, always as the final item of the agenda, and it is never to be discussed. Although the law has all the opinions it needs, even the government's opinion. The committees discussed this, etc. The hasty of such a law, as I believe this Road Safety Act has been, tells us how much our country suffers because of such laws. The 0.0 promila law naturally suffers tourism, i.e. how much the reputation of Croatian tourism, hospitality and winemaking is impaired, and how much it is, in fact, an attack on the culture of life. We at the IDS club certainly do not advocate driving in a state of drunkenness or intoxication, but our intention as a tourist country is to highlight its tourist gastronomic offer, which is an integral part of the food supply with which the inevitable and Croatian wine goes. So somebody explain to me how to stop guests from drinking the usual and normal time of wine. The countries which I will now list also as regards this law have a regulation that they do not limit the age of the vehicle but only technical correctness, and in the case of alcohol Austria, France, Italy, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Ireland and Slovenia tolerate 0.5. Great Britain, Luxembourg, Switzerland...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59273	That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59274	... 0,8. And these people drive trucks that are over 18 years old and are technically correct and in these countries that I've just listed is the smallest percentage of traffic accidents. I don't really know how. On the other hand, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Lithuania, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia and Ukraine do not allow any consumption of alcohol to be not tourist countries, but therefore have more car accidents. Also, studies done so far in the world health organization show that there are still no special risks for participation in traffic at 0.5 proms.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59275	This Regulation shall enter We're not talking about this subject today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59276	Okay. The opinions that come from the government that according to this law that is now on the agenda, and also the government's opinion under this law that you say is not on the agenda, I think it's connected, are simply contradictory and the government should really look out for the dignity of parliamentary MPs, because we still know how to read, we're written, and I think we should really take care of it when they send arguments not to be contradictory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59277	Thank you. Mr. Caine, the other part. He's gone. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59278	Very short. An incorrect allegation of a distinguished colleague, a provision of 0 prominence destroyed the reputation of Croatian tourism. Well, that's just denied the past tourist season and the announcements of the next provision of the law that was in force, that we had the most successful tourist season, so I guess tourism since the independent Croatian state. It is therefore incorrect that the provision of the law has destroyed the reputation of Croatian tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59279	It's also not the topic of this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59280	But the quote has been corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59281	We can't go under one item of the agenda, neither Mrs. Bukovac-Pjesic nor anyone else is talking about something quite third. Because Article 210. The Rules of Procedure say it must not be removed, etc. Yeah. Let's move on. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, Mrs. Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The road transport law was passed in December 2004, with its entry into force delayed for a year, i.e. now practically as we heard by mid-June 10th of this year. It has been 15 months since the law was passed and the law has not yet entered into force, which is completely unprofessional and irresponsible. Of course there are many problems related to the implementation of this law, but that does not mean that the current government can delay it until the moment some new people sit in the ministry. In accordance with this proposal, the law requires that Articles 6(1) and 2(2) of the original law be deleted. However, we consider this article to be very important for the safety of traffic on Croatian roads, in some ways we agree with the views set out in the proposal for a law, that the primary criterion of vehicle regularity should be the level of its technical correctness as well as the practice in the countries of the European Union. However, we do not believe it can be argued that the age of the vehicle does not affect its regularity at all, and 18 years of age or 10 in the case of the carriage of the pupils is quite a burden for one means of transport. Such vehicles are subject to more frequent and serious malfunctions, pose a danger on the road, not to mention the lack of certain filters and similar environmental elements that newer vehicles possess. When making any decisions, we should put ourselves in the position of those for whom our decisions will affect. In this case, we should put ourselves in the position of the owners to whom this law will be financially affected, but we should also put ourselves in the position of drivers, or their families who have the right to feel safe on the roads. If you ask any parents, they'd be more than happy to single out a few more kunas if that means that his child will get to school more safely. Of course, it is clear to all how the implementation of this law brings with it considerable difficulties, mostly of financial nature. In the Republic of Croatia, 20% of the total number of registered vehicles are over 18 years old. Their move from roads will certainly shock their owners financially, but since this law has been passed to improve public and general well-being, we believe that the state would make certain other incentives such as. The tax exemption for the purchase of a new vehicle should encourage the restoration of the Croatian fleet. It is also important for this renewal to begin as soon as possible, so that old vehicles from the Republic of Croatia can be exported and sold to the eastern markets which are currently most frequently traded to used vehicles. Although we may disagree entirely with this proposal, we will still support this proposal as a Croatian People's Party club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59283	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59284	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. So the proposal to amend and supplement the Road Transport Act proposed by counterpart Željko Pecek according to the number of articles is a small law, but according to its effects it is very important because by accepting it we provide further work for the owners of 28 thousand 284 trucks and a thousand 369 buses. It is completely unclear why the proposer of the current law of a valid, positive road transport law insisted on paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 6 which, on the basis of this law, has, in fact, been in force since the 10th month of this year with an extension, made it impossible to work as many as 30 thousand train units. It is strange that the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided, at the time of harmonisation of the laws with the laws of the Member States of the European Union, on a legal solution unknown in Europe. We'd like to believe that this provision has not found its place in the law by pawning someone or someone's lobby. It is absolutely certain that the state must take care of road safety. It is the wrong approach to assume that years of age have been a guarantee of safety. We are in favour of transporting technically correct vehicles on our roads regardless of age. The technical correct vehicle must be a basic criterion both for the protection of other road users and passengers themselves carried by those motor vehicles. As we think about this problem, we are also thinking about those citizens, for example me in my county, who are related to public transport and not in our own choice of carriers. Instead, the carrier chose someone else, awarding him a transport concession. Often these concessions are incomprehensible because citizens are not satisfied with neither the price nor the quality of the service. Although train units or more precisely buses meet the requirements regarding the age of the vehicle, they often remain malfunctioned, and there is no replacement. Passengers don't make it to their destination for which they paid for their ticket. On this occasion we also think about those children who in the early morning at an outside temperature of minus 10 degrees and lower, ride in buses without heating, with doors that do not breathe. Is it necessary to stress that these are all buses under the age of 10, but are unsustainable and problematic technical correctness. It is our duty to protect the participants in transport, but we are obliged to protect passengers, and they obviously cannot be protected by legal exclusion from bus traffic for over 18 years or 10 years. Therefore, we advocate technical correctness, no matter how old the vehicle is, because from the examples presented, it is evident that the vehicle can be 2 and 3 years old, but unsustained, devastated and completely insecure. Furthermore, the law excludes trucks older than 18 years of age. According to available data, the work of 28 thousand 284 trucks is disabled. This isn't just an economic coup, it's also a social impact of 19.5% of freight vehicles are legally put out of business. Let's just take a look at who owns these trucks. They are mostly owned by natural persons who are registered as autocarers. Did we ask ourselves how the last 10 years have seen such a sudden increase in the number of carriers? They'll remind us of more fresh events at Coca-Cola. Drivers get fired and are offered the purchase of old trucks as a easing circumstance. All over 15 years old. This way of solving workers is not an invention of Coca-Cole. This is the way, invented during privatisation in Croatia, new owners regularly abolished transportation in capital companies. The drivers were fired, and so-called privileged buy-in truck was certainly paid off. They were promised to do transport services for their former companies and thus to pay for the truck. Very soon, the need for transportation stopped. Ex-worker remained an old truck and an unpaid debt, and now the law excludes such trucks from traffic. So, first they're out of work, they're out of old trucks, and now those old trucks are being dropped out of business by law. Getting a truck is often the move of a desperate man who has seen the possibility of feeding his family. Trucks were bought on loan and loans were given to houses and mortgaged apartments. For them, Article 6 is replaced by the following: Road transport laws? It means he'll have a means of working with which he won't be able to work or earn money for his payment. As a result of the inability to pay, credit insurance instruments will be activated, which means truck owners will be left without houses and without apartments. We are convinced that we do not want it here in the Croatian Parliament and therefore we at the Club of the Croatian Pecek accept and support the proposal of our fellow Pecek who advocates the transport of technically correct vehicles on our roads and enables responsible and conscious carriers to work and earn money so that neither they nor members of their families become social cases and burdens of this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59285	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposed Mr. Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, just a few sentences. Look, we're here discussing a law that clearly concerns 30s and some thousands of people and fate and has no proposing representatives, and that's the Ministry of the Sea, the Marines or what it's not called, which is, I think I know what I'm talking about. I know what I'm talking about because on behalf of the government, they were defending the government's position on the boards. So they are proposing to the government whether this Law will be amended or not. We're talking in the wind. We try to convince them that this law needs to be changed, and they don't want to hear our arguments, they don't want to participate in the debate, they want to make a regulation without us. Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you to stop the debate, invite these gentlemen, as would be the order, and also the time to appear once in the House on this subject and continue the debate tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59287	Thank you very much. It would be desirable if the representatives of the government were here, but they are not necessary to continue the debate. So we'll continue the debate. Miroslav Korenik on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must say that the SDP Club will support this bill for a number of reasons. And when the Law was adopted in 2004, and when the debate was on the text of this Law, and then we are, and we are, once again, loudly saying that this Law is the consequence of everything that has been done typically, that the Government appears under the cover of the adoption of European laws to push solutions that are not actually harmonised and that do not exist as norms in European legislation and European directives. Why is that, that's what we have to talk about. And just as it is now said that the Chamber of crafts, that the Croatian Chamber of crafts supports the adoption of this Law with the right, and then the Croatian Chamber of crafts has raised its voice through us by the representatives who have given amendments that have defined this area of work, that is, this area of the Law that is spoken of. It's a sad fact that there are no government representatives here tonight because it seems to me that they were saying one thing, when government regulations are being written, they say something completely different, and tonight they don't find it appropriate for us to talk to us about this law. I will also quote some of their opinions and opinions because it is evident that in the ministry people most responsible for the road transport issue or do not understand or simply raise some other interests rather than the interests of Croatian carriers and Croatian citizens. I will quote the government's opinion when last year, meaning about 10 months ago, and counterpart Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac made a proposal similar to that rejected in this House of High Will. Then it is said, I will quote the Government's opinion of 7 April 2005: "Application of the Law in the text adopted in the Croatian Parliament at this time will not cause negative consequences for the survival of both small entrepreneurs of carriers and all other natural and legal persons engaged in the activity of transport because the Law is in force for only 3 months, and the deadline for harmonisation is one year from the entry into force of this Act". It is also said, among other things, that the adoption of the sub-legislative rules referred to in paragraph 3 of this Act will allow the provision of those activities to vehicles and older than 18 years and 10 years, respectively, but only subject to compliance with certain conditions, which will be controlled by competent institutions and inspection services both in regular and extraordinary controls. If all this is so wonderful, wonderful and beautiful, I ask you and myself personally who are the reasons that the government went with the regulations? What are the reasons? Obviously, it was seen that it was wrong, human beings were wrong, but then it would be correct and fair to come before the Parliament and say we were wrong, and we need to fix it, especially because I will quote the report that on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships, where the Government's representative pointed out that by adopting a regulation on which we had a very heated discussion in this House, entrepreneurs have extended the time to prepare and comply their business with the provisions of the law, because the degree in the European Community of competition will be strong and will not be competitive in the market with ageing vehicles, having strict criteria of the European Community. It is clear to me that by the will of the majority, this Law will certainly be rejected. However, the question is raised for whom we Croatian representatives work, whether for the better life of all of us and all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, or whether we will try to put a part of them in the lock? What will happen in October of this year, will the Government then come with a proposal of this same law? Surely, since there is no reason not to come, we will not let 30 thousand Croatian families become social cases. That's why we in the SDP support the adoption of this Act because we think it's important that all the vehicles driving our roads be technical, if those that are technically incorrect, we can only ask the question of how can such vehicles pass on the technical checks? Why is there no extraordinary technical examinations to be referred to by the police when controlling traffic and everything else? It is likely that competition will make it even worse for the quality of technical examinations, although I personally think it is good because we see that we will soon have competition in this area, which is unacceptable for me because technical checks must remain as public authority in the power of the Parliament and the Government and legally regulated. If we want to help Croatian motorists, then we can do it in more ways. With the adoption of this Act, we propose to the Government to consider and, through the state bank, any bank for the Croatian Post Bank, whether through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, provide support to Croatian carriers so that they can restore their fleet. This will be an active approach to this government not empty stories, let the government further ensure that there is greater and better economic activity in this country, so that our carriers are more busy and that in the talks with neighbouring countries, more particularly for international transport, both passenger and freight, more permits, cents so that our carriers can catch a larger share in the European market. This will be an active government support, not a cowardly failure to attend this session and explain to the MPs why they were wrong and why they are unable to explain and withdraw their error, or if they already do not accept the law given by counterpart Pecek and club HSS, why are they unable to prepare their own law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59289	I give you a warning about insulting the government. No cowardly government, and if you wanted to remember then you had four years of remembering similar situations. ... I give you a warning, if you haven't heard of insulting the government. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The government could have come, which I would like to say personally that there is a representative of the government, but it is not and is not necessary to continue the debate. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am not obliged to warn the government, nor am I authorized to do so, but to counsel when they make a mistake. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, you cannot call such a dictionary representatives of the government and be a little more calm and control yourself. Here's my advice to everyone, especially because of what you just said here. The debate is over by clubs, we are now moving on to an individual debate and is the first Mr. Stazic. Here you go. He's giving up. Thank you. The second is Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The third is Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go. Then Mr. Jozo Topic. [[Intruder: Cancelling.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59290	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I will be very brief because I think that the most important facts are presented precisely in the presentation of my colleague, Košisa Chichin-Shain, on behalf of the board, and this bill of law, for the sake of full truth, should be said that he was twice at the debate and was, of course, also a representative of the Government, and I find it odd and I cannot accept it at all because this is a de facto concrete life proposal of the law that MPs behave differently on the board, and they behave differently at the plenary session. Of course television would be a completely different debate. The fact that all representatives of all parties and all clubs except the representatives of the HSS discussed the law in a similar way, in a similar way, as it stated on behalf of the committee of colleagues Košisa Chichin-Shain. So it's strange that this particular from the SDP club is a fellow Linic who I believe is professional and invited to talk about it has just insisted that it is not even going to any extension, that it should simply let the law take effect because it is in the state interest, in the interest of the state of Croatia and I also think, because I am also an entrepreneur in a way and I have feelings for entrepreneurs and for these small entrepreneurs, but I should say a few words in principle. Croatia in its position is real, it has such a position as transport activity, that freight and traffic, that they are one of the exceptional activities not only within Croatia, it will be extremely important in international transport and because we are a country that has a coast, which we have ports. Therefore, I think that the intensity of this Law, which was passed in 2004, was quite correct and that the Government had just been guided by this logic that transport companies should be trained, i.e. entrepreneurs engaged in transport activities to modernise their vehicles for both environmental reasons, because gentlemen dearly, we are also a tourist country. Also for economic reasons, because we need to create capable entrepreneurs who will be able to deal with competition from neighbouring countries tomorrow when we enter the European Community for these reasons that I have mentioned. It should also be pointed out here why not extend why to limit the age of these vehicles in the first place. We have a neighbourhood, Serbia, Romania, Macedonia and other countries and Croatia is a transit country for them. And can we pass laws that will apply, one law or provision that will apply to carriers in Croatia and other provisions for carriers from other countries. How are we going to limit in some way to roll old vehicles that pollute the environment, which are a danger to traffic, etc. on our roads? if we will not, of course, bring those measures to our carriers. And on the other hand, I think there's too much going on here to take care of little people, little craftsmen. But, gentlemen, let's be specific, so let's say the truth is the value of a 20-year-old truck. What's his real value? Well, it's worth 3.5 thousand euros, tops 5 thousand euros. And I support all those proposals that go after this and besides our government has also shown a good example with the restoration of the fishing fleet to stimulate entrepreneurs engaged in transport activities to get rid of taxes for the natural purchase of new units, new vehicles and, of course, to provide suitable credit lines. The same thing that happens with the fishing fleet should be done in this activity as well. On the one hand, however, it should also be critical of the proposings of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. The question arises how did we even get into this situation that we suddenly have 28 thousand old vehicles and buses. Of course they did their work or their work as they were supposed to, if they had given quality information to entrepreneurs, craftsmen who had no time or the ability to deal with these opportunities on the market what was expected and what would be desirable, and I would not believe it would be desirable that a large number of these entrepreneurs would certainly not come into this situation to buy an old truck in the West, they were happy to get rid of them and are now creating a problem for us. And that's why I'm also going to be one of those who doesn't accept this bill, and I think that the intensity of this law that we passed in 2004 is precisely to get quality entrepreneurs, to get a modern rolling stock, to protect the environment, and to raise the level of security on our roads. And on that behalf, I will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59291	We have a few replicas. The first is Mr. Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, dear colleague, the fact is that Croatia as well as all other countries for international transport issue or exchange with neighbouring countries and with all other bilateral permits. The possibility of issuing licences and anything related to them may also be restricted by an ecological approach. However, a respected colleague and this government have stepped down investments in Croatian railways. I only remind you that at the railway workshop in Čakovec is near the end and should have long ago been that there was financial support for the low floor train project for the transport of the truck so that simply through one part of Croatia, trucks are transported through the railway for environmental reasons. Why didn't the government do it I can ask you and myself but the fact is that the development is that way that it stops. It is easy now to attack both the crafts and the Chamber of Commerce only let us not forget the 1990s in which the economic situation was in Croatia. And in order for the social picture to be far worse than you, I'm right behind these little people because whether you want it or not, small people have to live on something. If we can get them a chance to earn their own money, please tell me where these people will work. It's about 30,000 people. I personally believe that everyone should be able to earn their own wages for their family and for themselves. If you have a different opinion, you've probably misrepresented yourself but we can't do it that way. In addition, it has been said to be a alignment with European Union directives. Unfortunately, yours and mine aren't, but that's the law of persuasion. And that the wrong government proves it by its regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59293	Thank you. If the representative requests a word to respond, the president will give him a word and a closing speech as I did. However, Mr. Topic did not mention railways anywhere but spoke of road traffic. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59294	Dear fellow, surely I have enough understanding for small entrepreneurs because... I'm sure one of them, but I'm sure I know the opportunities in that segment of the economy, maybe I'm getting a little better at circumstances than others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I know what this is about. I'm talking again. The goal is to create quality entrepreneurs, i.e. Entrepreneurs who will be able to do their activities and be competitive tomorrow when we become a member of the European Union. Gentlemen, dear, because otherwise what will happen? In two years or three years, when Croatia enters the European Union, then we will only complain and in this way there will be nothing else, one clear message has been sent to all those who cannot import old trucks. It's already done a lot in these last two years. And as for the strategy of this or that government, I think that this government is already that and in the media is a lot written about how it sees the modernisation of Croatian railways. This government has long-term and complete solutions rather than solutions partial just patch up and hold water while masters leave on the principle of these tilt trains and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59295	It's not about the cuts. We have a replica of Mrs. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, of course we would all be together who do politics too happy if our carriers had new means of transport because it's the most profitable. And if the government wants to stimulate it, it can't make it a ban. She forbids here, she disables here. And with this legal provision and government regulation, it is true that our polluters in Croatia will not be domestic trucks but that is why they want foreign trucks... I'm surprised you're asking the question of how the entrepreneurs allowed the trucks to have 20 years old. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Dude, what are these guys doing with Coca-Cola who are forced to buy 15-year-old trucks? In three years, he won't pay for it. And they won't even get the money to buy new trucks. Well, the role of the government is to stimulate but not to ban. That's exactly what we're talking about. Let's not forbid it. Let's not make such a sudden cut. Let us help these people to really modernise, to have new vehicles because new vehicles have the lowest cost and will thus be competitive. I'm not a lucky colleague that our air and our environment are polluting foreign trucks. I'm not happy. I'm not even happy to pollute ours. But we haven't solved the problem of clean air and environment if we ban ours and open the door wide for others. Ours won't be. They won't be competitive, but that's why they'll come to us from both east and west, and they can't come from the south.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59297	Thank you. Answer Mr. Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59298	Well, I don't think we understand each other here. Or we're talking about two special topics. I think we're all here interested in the fate of all those carriers. But please, how many of these 28 thousand trucks can these trucks drive in the European Union now? How many can I drive? Can everyone drive to the European Union? Yes, you were talking about Promal and Sibenik, they have six trucks, and of those six trucks, only two trucks can drive outside, except Italy and Serbia. So you realize that these measures and those environmental standards will be growing and more pronounced and I think it's good to respond in time. But it's not the government, it's the government's understanding of this situation. So, among other things, has the term of application of this Law been extended for two years? That's it. So I think it's an appropriate time for entrepreneurs, craftsmen, carriers to adapt to this new legal provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59299	Replica, Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Topic, it is not disputed that the government has had good intentions but poor measures have been proposed for these good intentions and has acknowledged this by adopting a regulation on the postponement of these measures for a year and more days. Not a legal regulation, though, but she brought it in. And secondly, you claim that trucks can't go or buses to the European Union if they don't meet the criteria, the European Union's ecological criteria. We agree with that, but we will not just because they cannot go to ban driving in Croatia and thus cut off the economic branch where they exist. Therefore, it was necessary to find a measure that even those old trucks would at least install a new engine, and that is technically possible, and that is the condition for entering the EuroSpec Union. It's possible to install a new engine. I'm no expert on this, but I'm told by those who deal with it and reduce the problem, the environmental problem that exists with the truck and the bus at our place. So we're not saying that the government had a bad intention, but we're saying that she misrepresented that intention and thus ruined that good wish. That was the whole point of the debate. That is why the bill of law proposed by counterpart Pecek was to be adopted here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59301	Thank you very much. Dragutin Lesar. ... Antun Kapraljevic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Nikola Vuljanić. They're gone. They're losing right. Will Mr. Proposer want a final review? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59302	Thank you very much. Just given the time-out a few sentences. It's very hard to defend something when there's no arguments and it's very hard to say that it's not going against these people, and we said it's 30,000 that have such trucks and buses for the simple reason they can't have otherwise. Mr. Topic, I am fully aware that these trucks time 3 and a half thousand euros, perhaps a little more. But these people are worth bread every day for the simple reason that different trucks can't buy. And with them, they make good money for themselves and their families. However, if you are already taking such a bitter stand as the only criterion of age of the vehicle, I will now ask you another question. And what about the rolling stock that's under allegations owned by the government? How many locomotives would a vehicle be tomorrow if they applied the 8-year-old criterion? How many ferrys would travel between the islands if they were to implement the 18-year-old criterion because we know that our average age is about 25 years old if I remember the debate that it was. ... 28 years, thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What happens to ships carrying passengers where the age is probably about the same as the locomotives, as well as the ferrys, as well as the truck, is finally the same as the bus. Transport in Croatia would have died. Transport would simply not be to apply the same criteria as according to craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship from tomorrow and according to its fleet. Our people know we all even go to Iraq to earn bread all the time and fight to survive and prepare for Europe. Of course, we can always talk about how it takes them to adapt to Europe in a way that buys new vehicles. Where else would they buy new vehicles? And you think we won't empty those... outside a 10-year-old truck? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, we will because people will have to buy trucks 10 years old, and they won't be able to buy new trucks because there's no program. There's no program and they don't even have financial opportunities. That is why I believe that we should have talked more seriously about this Law, or about amendments to the law. I am sorry to point out once again that there is no government here, that there are no representatives of the ministries who have defended such a bad bill and who have already passed twice the regulation. In any case, the adjustment period should have been longer. If we discussed Jadrolinia and said that we could privatise it only possibly by special law, if we said that they should have some adjustment period before they came from Europe of 5, 10 or I don't know how many years then, I assure you, these people who unfortunately have trucks worth 3 and a half thousand euros. We'd have them believe 35,000 or 350,000 if we could. I can't, but in this way they're making a successful living, they're not on the burden of the state and in this sector of crafts, I'm stressing once again for 250 thousand people. It's high time we started here, at least here in Parliament to think in a different way, not that without arguments or quasiarguments we reject proposals that go in favor of them. I'd like you to tell me when we're back two years from now how long we've been sitting here, we've passed some law or amendments to the law that goes in favor of craftsmanship? I don't remember. If you remember, correct me. However, we have brought in people like this that are doing a lot of negative work, and I can count them for you, but now that we don't bother everyone else, I can justifiably bring you how many bad proposals we've made that limit and that go to the harm of entrepreneurship and small entrepreneurship. Well, it's time to change that, it's not a political issue. This is an economic issue, and it is not difficult to admit that somewhere is wrong and it is not difficult to come and listen to the debate. Of course 10 parliamentary deputies gave up the debate. Who do they talk to? Who's listening to us? We're just listening to ourselves. I think it's sad and I ask you, Mr. Vice President, to introduce the representatives of the ministry to our opinion and regret and anger for not attending the debate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59303	I share your dissatisfaction with not being present here as a representative of the ministry, but it is not necessary for our Rules of Procedure to be discussed. That was my explanation. As for this, these agenda points we've concluded, we've concluded the debate, I'm concluding the debate. And for tomorrow, at 9.30 p.m., I announce point 5.a) of the report on the work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and b) List of companies from the portfolio of the institutions to which the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the list of companies held by the Institute in the capital fund d.d. And so on. Thank you very much, good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-15-0.u59304	Fourth, a proposal for a Law amending the Road Transport Act. Proposer of the law is agent Zeljko Pecek. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law amending the Road Transport Act proposed by Agent Zeljko Pecek for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 72 votes for, one abstention and 31 against, the proposed conclusion was adopted.
