ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80195	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to remind you first of several facts regarding the declaration of a protected eco-fishing belt and the reasons that led to the Government's decision to amend and supplement the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. On 3 October 2003, the Republic of Croatia extended its jurisdiction in the Adriatic by declaring a protected eco-fishing belt. The act, although internationally legally justified, caused dissatisfaction between neighbouring countries in Italy and Slovenia. The Croatian Parliament then amended its decision on the extension of the Adriatic jurisdiction on 3 June 2004 in such a way as to suspend the application of the ZERP in relation to ships and members of the European Union, and until the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Since 2004, circumstances have changed significantly since 2004. I would like to list several aspects of changing the context that led the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider the overall situation in order to protect Croatian interests. Firstly, I would like to point out that Croatia has gained candidate status in the European Union in the meantime, and has started accession negotiations. The European Community does not conclude fisheries agreements with countries holding full membership negotiations, which is one of the reasons why it is necessary to review the decision of the Croatian Parliament in 2004. The second is the fact that the Member States of the European Union have also changed the context by their own procedures compared to the one that existed when the Croatian Parliament decided on a temporary suspension of the ZERP. In October 2005, the ecological belt declared Slovenia in part in the area of the sea over which Croatia has sovereign rights, and then Italy extended its jurisdiction beyond the borders of the territorial sea by declaring a protected ecological zone on 31 January 2006. The third fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to take into account is that the ecological balance and biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea are increasingly at risk and that the negative trend in the reduction of the fishing fund without appropriate safeguards cannot be stopped, so the current situation in the Adriatic cannot be of interest to anyone. Furthermore, I would like to point out that, following the declaration of ZERP, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a responsible approach to the construction of the ZERP legal regime, i.e. the adoption of appropriate regulations with a view to introducing sustainability in the exploitation of fisheries wealth and the protection of the marine environment. On the one hand, it was increasingly evident that measures to protect fisheries and the marine environment can only be effective if they are implemented in relation to all ships in the area of ZERP. On the other hand, the government understood and took into account Croatian fishermen who sought to change the existing situation that led them to a more unfavourable position. The government also included representatives of fishermen in the section working on these proposals, and the fishermen supported the proposal of the Government. Therefore, the Decision amending and supplementing the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea states that the application of the legal regime of the protected ecological and fisheries band of the Republic of Croatia will start at the latest on 1 January 2008 from the date on which the fishing and other vessels of the European Community will be subject to the fishing and ecological regulations of the Republic of Croatia. In keeping with the free access to fishing resources under Croatian jurisdiction, it is therefore necessary that ships of all countries and thus community ships fully comply with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia that regulate fishing and the protection of the marine environment in the same way as ships under the Croatian flag do. This would apply the relevant rules on a non-discriminatory basis equally to all ships in the ZERP. Starting with the reasons that I have just stated, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has prepared the decision to contribute to the effective and sustainable protection of the Adriatic Sea environment and fishing wealth. The decision that is right in front of you, whose application would take place at the latest on 1 January 2008. The government prepared by consulting all stakeholders, especially those most concerned, which confirmed its responsible approach. The basic reason why this deadline is set lies in the need for all interested countries to become familiar with the ZERP legal regime in order to make the necessary adjustments and to allow sufficient time for consultations with interested countries and the European Commission. If the consultation process is completed earlier, this decision shall not prevent the ZERP from applying to the Member States of the European Union before 1 January 2008. So, you just define the deadline when the ZERP will start. Croatia will continue, through its partnership, the relationship between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission, in line with its candidate state status, to negotiate full membership of the European Union and the importance of promoting good neighbourly relations, dialogue on measures to ensure sustainable fishing and protection of the marine environment in the Adriatic Sea, taking into account the fundamental principles of the common fisheries policy of the European Community, data and scientific backgrounds collected through national and international projects, as well as the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia and stakeholders. The Republic of Croatia, as a candidate country for membership in the European Union, is determined to implement a responsible policy for the permanent preservation of the Adriatic and its wealth, taking into account the interests of stakeholders, the proposals of Croatian parliamentary parties, the fundamental principles of the common fisheries policy of the European Community, data from teaching research and the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, we are prepared to continue the dialogue with measures to ensure sustainable fishing and protection of the marine environment through a partnership relationship with the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission. Finally, I would like to point out that this decision does not want to prejudge the resolution of other issues with the Member States of the European Union, which we will continue to address in accordance with international law and in the debt of friendly relations and good EU customs. I propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the amendment and additions to the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80196	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80197	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting Mrs. Secretary's guilty allegations when she said the fishermen supported the government's proposal. This morning, the president of the Chamber of Fishermen said on the radio that they supported the Government's proposal in times of despair, when it seemed that the government did not want to declare at all and that for the fishermen themselves the most favourable and possible solution to the application of the Eco-fishing Belt was immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80198	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80199	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the imprecise claim of the distinguished minister regarding the objectives of this decision. We are legally not solving anything by reason of the fact that in point 1. you have stated that this will start to apply at the latest from 1 January 2008. So, the Croatian Parliament must again make a decision when it will be because nothing is being solved but just a waste of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80200	Thank you. We are going to explain the Proposal for a Decision of the Croatian Parliament on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSP. Proposer, Honorable Representative Anto Djapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80201	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister and Minister. Here, after waiting from September of last year, a series of circumstances finally took place and discussed this proposal for a Croatian party's right. Therefore, it took 15 months for the point to finally be discussed, for both Croatia's international situation and other other clubs' additional initiatives to finally ensure the debate. Better ever than ever, so I hold it very important to pass on behalf of the promoter a brief chronology of the event about why the Croatian Party of Rights requires the declaration of the exclusively economic belt. The declaration of the economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea is constantly delayed in us. Many groups of experts have proposed this on several occasions. For example, when the Law of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 1994. But nothing concrete has been done. The first concrete step in this direction was made in March 2001 by representatives of the party's right to submit a proposal for a decision to declare the economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. On its proposal, this proposal was discussed in the Croatian Parliament on 9 July 2001. Moreover, an inter-party task force has drawn conclusions that were then unanimously adopted by the Croatian Parliament. It is concluded that the vote on the HSP proposal is delayed until March 2003 and that until then the Government has prepared reports on the state of the fish fund on our half of the Adriatic, on the size and composition of the coast guard, on the problems that may cause the economic belt to be declared towards the European Union, its neighbours, and on the distinction with neighbours at sea. When, then, today, we are talking about the need to reach an inter-party consensus, we should say that then an inter-party consensus has been reached on the declaration of an economic belt. Unfortunately, however, this inter-party consensus was not used by the government of Mr. Racan. None of the requested reports have been prepared or voted on on our proposal. Our goal was then the same as today. Help the economic belt protect the biological resources of the Croatian half of the Adriatic and enable them to be managed by the Croatian state. At the same time as today, we asked for the immediate application of the ecological part of the economic belt and for a start of 6 months for fisheries negotiations with neighbours. The proposal was discussed again in the Parliament in October 2003. After the debate was held, the Croatian Parliament declared the so-called so-called so-called session in that term at the last session of parliament on 3 October 2003. Protected eco-fishing belt, popularly called ZERP with an economic belt content. This gave the Republic of Croatia the opportunity to expand its jurisdiction on the Adriatic. However, we think it is better to declare an exclusive economic belt because it would then be a clearer Croatian international legal position. However, immediately after the adoption of ZERP on 3 October 2003, the former coalition government delayed the use of ZERP for a total of 12 months. The Croatian party's proposals for the right to declare an economic belt were rejected by the former government with these arguments: "The simple declaration of the economic belt could undermine the perception of the Republic of Croatia as a reliable partner of the International Community and stability factors in this part of Europe. The issue of the declaration of the economic belt is not a legal issue, but a question of a political, i.e. an international national-legal opportunite. The needs of the Croatian decision with a whole of Croatian interests should be carefully analysed in light of relations with the European Union and Italy." That was therefore the position of President Racan's government. Unfortunately, this government has taken the same argument. Instead of submitting a report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of the fish fund in the Adriatic, on the fishing capacities of our fleet, on the zoning of the economic zone to fishing areas, on the construction of fishing ports, on the needs and plans of the coast guard, we received, in short, on everything necessary for the implementation of the economic belt on 3 June 2004, the proposal for a decision to postpone the application of the ZERP to the members of the European Union and then proposed the declaration of the economic zone, but the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 3 June 2004 delayed the application of the ZERP to the members of the European Union until its application started both for Croatia and for all other members of the United Nations. Such discrimination against the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea could violate and must have violated Croatia's international reputation. The application of the economic belt would not affect Croatia's international reputation. The more we believe that the state defends its reputation only if it defends its rights guaranteed by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Charter of the United Nations. No act of the European Union, nor the Stabilisation and Association Agreement shall be prohibited from declaring an economic belt. Moreover, the European Union recommends that Member States and candidates expand their control of uncontrollable fishing in international waters. It was all familiar and then today. The general international law of the sea confirms the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, giving coastal states the right to declare their economic belt in the extension of their territorial sea. The belt covers both the water column and the sea surface, but not the airspace above it. After being declared by the coastal state, it acquires sovereign rights in order to explore and manage all living and non-living natural resources, which primarily involve fishing, and although legal rules relating to the open sea apply to the navigation of foreign vessels in the economic zone, which relate to the open sea, the coastal state acquires a special jurisdiction and, first and foremost, with regard to the protection and conservation of the marine environment. The act of the declaration should also set a transitional period within the shortest period within which fishing vessels of neighbouring countries could continue to hunt in our economic belt as they have done so far, without compensation and restrictions, but this would not apply to catches of species from the bottom of the epicontinental belt. And to the non-coal states that are addressed to the use of Croatian ports, so Hungary, Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Croatia would offer other Croatia an agreement on co-operation in the use of their freedom of transit. Some of these agreements have already been concluded with Hungary, with regard to free zones and other customs reliefs, co-operation in the construction and development of means of transport, the granting of larger customs reliefs and others. Here, however, we point out that the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot have an economic and epicontinental belt because they do not spread international waters in front of their territorial sea. We have therefore launched the procedure of declaring the belt in 2001, long before the elections and far before any negotiations on the accession of the European Union. Namely, the countries that entered into negotiations with the European Union with their declared and activated economic or fishing belts treated this as their right in the negotiations. The European Union has always sought to compensate the Member State for its tightening since the application of its bankruptcy law, i.e. full application of its economic belt to members of the European Union after accession. Poland and Malta have come from the European Union funds to compensate. That is why we have asked for the declaration of the economic belt long before Croatia enters the European Union. However, it is quite another thing when the candidate country is trying to negotiate with the European Union to gain its rights as Croatia is now doing. Both the former and the current government gave up on the application of the economic belt broke out of Croatia's hands one of the strong bids in negotiations with the European Union. Finland declared its economic belt in 2005, Italy's ecological part in 2006, France and Spain's ecological, i.e. the fishing zone as members of the European Union, Poland, Malta, Bulgaria and Romania joined the negotiations with the economic fisheries belts. It is important to note the key new circumstances for assessing the application of the ZERP to members of the European Union. First, during the period when Croatia delayed the application of ZERP to members of the European Union in 2004 and to this day three European Union countries have declared their ecological, i.e. economic belts. Both members of the European Union, Italy and Slovenia, did so in the Adriatic. None of these countries have previously held consultations with Croatia or if we do not know... Foreign affairs say so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Third. The members of the European Union who declared its economic zone during the same period shall be Finland. I stress Finland, so now the President of the European Union. In February 2005, Finland replaced its previous fishing belt with a full economic belt for the frequent release of oil from ships to the sea, not in the middle of accidents, but in frequent routine ship operations such as washing tanks and the like. Finland has established 36 cases in 2004 with targeted surveillance through two planes. The pollution of the sea by spilling oil off ships in the Adriatic is much more serious than with Finland. According to European Union data, it is almost daily incidents. Satellite radar... pictures in the Mediterranean provide estimates of the total surface area of oil stains, and the Adriatic Sea is an area of about a thousand... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A square mile or like all the islands in Kvarner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A special study recently conducted for the Adriatic Sea revealed about 250 cases of oil spillage from ships annually, more specifically 257 oil spills from ships in '99. Year, 263 spills in 2000, then 184 in 2001 and 244 spills from ships in 2002. These studies by the European Commission provide the first reliable statistical checks on oil spills from ships in the Adriatic Sea. The declared ecological belt of Italy will necessarily have a domino effect. It will lead to ships avoiding banned activities and will take away such tanks in the territory of Croatia's ZERP. For all these reasons, Croatia in the current political situation, without the necessary consultations between the neighbouring countries and the European Union, should amend the Parliament's decision of June 2004 so that, with full and unconditional application, it can place an ecological component of the ZERP while it can then continue its consultation with the members of the European Union on the fishing component. Such a move would bring about a real improvement in terms of Croatian jurisdiction for the protection of the Adriatic and political application in view of the ZERP. Namely, only by applying the ecological part of the economic belt to members of the European Union does it become a fact for them. Therefore, only by applying the ecological part of the economic belt to members of the European Union can the economic belt be the basis for the fisheries negotiations in Chapter 13. However, the European Commission and the government are constantly imposing the claim that Croatia has no right to do so. It's a complete twist of facts. The environmental part of the ZERP or the economic belt is not part of the European acquis. The acquis cannot be the subject of negotiations with the European Union or with its neighbours, nor can anyone blackmail us on this matter. So today it's a matter of all kinds of questions. Can Croatia until it has become a member of the European Union do something that is not part of the European acquis or not? We believe that you can do this, act to protect your interests on the Adriatic. The continuation of negotiations with the European Union on fisheries is then very clear if we start to apply the economic belt to all members of the European Union. The EU Ministerial Conference on Sustainable Fisheries Development in the Mediterranean was held in Venice on 25 and 26 November 2003. In point 10 of the final declaration of this meeting, the emphasis is on the need for the expansion of the economic fisheries zones, and this is for better protection and for such a threatened Mediterranean fish fund and for the Adriatic not to speak. So, the European Union not only has nothing against economic zones or fishing zones but it is as much as encouraged in point 10 of the Final Declaration of the Ministerial Conference in Venice, I quote: "The declaration of fishing zones should be the subject of... agreeing neighbouring countries to take care of the precedents already made." The already declared Croatian ZERP is therefore precedentd because it was adopted before and there were no objections to its application in Venice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we do not see any reason for the long delay in its application. Consider the decision to postpone the so-called delay. As of 3 June 2004, ZERP has been given a very precise period until this delay is in force. until the end of the fisheries agreement with the European Union. However, such a contract is concluded with the European Union of countries which do not intend to become members of the European Union like Norway. The time when Croatia began to negotiate the accession of the European Union so defined becomes meaningless. Croatia has not even started negotiations on the conclusion of a fishing agreement with the EU since 2004. If negotiated with neighbours, separately on fishing in the economic zone, beyond all negotiations with the European Union, such as The Government of the Republic of Croatia negotiated separately with the EU on sugar trade Articles 60 to 62 shall apply. The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. The State shall determine firstly what is the ecologically sustainable maximum of fishing in its economic zone, then determine what is the fishing capacity of its fleet, and shall leave the surplus through paid concessions to neighbouring countries. If, however, negotiations on fishing in the economic zone are being negotiated within all other negotiations with the European Union, we are actually negotiating the adoption of a common European Union fisheries policy on our fishing sea in the economic zone. It is noted that, in the territorial sea, Member States of the European Union are not allowed to fish by 2013 according to the European Union's fisheries policy. Since the fisheries negotiations, the emphasis has been on the absence of any discrimination, whether according to European Union vessels or to ships from the Republic of Croatia. The solution that should be applied has already been applied by Malta in its negotiations. Croatia should first act in accordance with Articles 60 and 62. The UN Convention on the Law must and determine the state of the fish fund, the ecologically sustainable maximum of catches and fishing opportunities of our fleet. After that, several variations are possible on the principle of non-discrimination. In the event of a concession from the Member States of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The variant second, introduce a complete moratorium to ZERP for three to five years to recover that part of the sea, which also becomes a buffer zone for Italian fishing in the Adriatic. That doesn't hit our fishermen because we're just building a fishing fleet and we're doing 80% of our fishing in the territorial sea. And the third variant, introduce as Malta clear rules of fishing in our economic belt. It is one, the same number of our ships and ships of the European Union, not like so far, 10 times more Italian ships than ours. And secondly, fishing vessels from the European Union must not be more powerful than the average of our ship. So, if the Croatian average is, for example, 250 horsepower, can't like so far come a fishing Italian ship of about 2 and a half thousand horsepower. And finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, one question arises when we talk about the ZERP or the economic belt in negotiations with the European Union. We are, in fact, experiencing in Croatia the right to talk with the European Union at the level of the system of values rather than subordination. Therefore, the Croatian government cannot only be an enforcer, any government, the executioner of the needs of individual members of the European Union. Because if we talk to the European Union then it is unacceptable for individual high-level European Union debtors to be lobbyists for individual members of the European Union. It is not in the spirit of the system of European values, but it is the most common use of the current position of Croatia that we can or do not have to agree to. We in Croatia do not support such a type of policy and we believe that the economic belt should be declared now and immediately in the way we have proposed. Therefore, the organic part is immediately and fishing after the fisheries policy has been agreed with the European Union but not with Italy or Slovenia. Well, for the end, maybe he's making a little joke. I can understand that there's been that conversation with someone about ZERP that famous record signed, unsigned, which was already, I can understand that we're talking to Italy about that which has real interests. But when you talk to Slovenia about it that doesn't have the opportunity to declare an economic belt, then we create what's called the so-called economic belt. special circumstances. One by one, one by one, and then when it comes to arbitration, then they'll say, so if we don't have the right to the sea to sit down and talk to us? Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80202	Thank you. We are going to explain the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. Proposer, respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80203	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues! The issue of activation, the issue of declaration, the question of seeking our interests at sea is a topic that has been under discussion for too long, which is being discussed a lot, which unfortunately loses more and more every day when it comes to those who live on the sea but also when it comes to the feelings of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the way they think that they should defend the interests, common interests, national interests of the country's citizens. It takes too long for controversy, too long for a misunderstanding that rather than narrows down, it deepens. Too many misunderstandings arise on a declarative level because I believe that there are no parties at political level or individuals in this House who are not in favour of achieving the legitimate interests that the Republic of Croatia has in relation to 25 thousand kilometres of the square miles of our sea, our territory. I believe that at this political level, there must be no misunderstanding. But let me remind you of the day on June 3, 2003, when the HSS, despite the great problems, despite the great attempts not to make much of its own political damage, suffered from its own political damage with a clear goal that despite the political damage it suffered to make a decision on the eco-fishing belt. It was then called by all kinds of names from a strange beak to a clump and a variety of ugly names. Today, this beak is the only serious tool that we can catch up to if we want those national goals, those interests, that community that we all program together if we want it to be substantiated and to be in the interest of our citizens and our country, as well as the dignity of our country in the international community because this is not a question to be ashamed of and to be dragged under the bench. This isn't a question, and there was no reason for us to get too long with this. We should've discussed this before. Croatia has the right to do so. This is the right of even members of the European Union to adopt the same rules as those for which we have not been put, and not only today and not only from this Government, to believe that this cannot be brought when you are a member of the European Union, so that it is almost impossible to bring about even when you are in the negotiation process. But what's there is. Today we have an ecological-fishing belt and I will remind those who, for various reasons, constantly raise doubts about the Croatian public, which is an ecological-fishing belt. The ecological-fishing belt is located in the register of the United Nations in international law on the law of the sea and is recorded as an exclusive economic belt with the exception of the use of tides and tides, windmills and artificial islands. That's exactly how it is. But also, I will remind all those who have not fully read the decision since 3 June 2003 that it is very clear in that decision that if the reasons are shown, the other contents of Chapter 4. In accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Sea, we will declare them in accordance with that decision when we need artificial islands. If the tide and the tide don't let God be at such a level that we can use it in some other way then we'll declare it. So with the decision of 2003, we haven't closed the door, and we can say that we have an exclusive economic belt. Of course, that fact will not diminish and will not work satisfactorily for all the citizens of our country. Of course, not for those who live directly or indirectly on the sea for the reasons why we do not continue to apply that regime to those who spend most of our seas, who have the most interest in our sea, who, on those 25 thousand kilometres of square days, fish over a million euros daily. But they don't take out just one million euros, they permanently destroy the resources we have, they threaten to become not fishing zones, but dead zones. It does not apply any regime that is still fully defined today leads this area to truly become an area of nothing, a dead area, a dead sea. Therefore, the ecological component, the protection component must be primarily and primarily addressed in the context of the activation of the ZERP according to all the members of the European Union now and immediately. I know that a certain part of the experts will say that what I say now and immediately is not possible but that in 2003 there could not be control mechanisms, mechanisms of control, mechanisms of conversation, mechanisms of diplomatic pressure on our neighbours to establish a fisheries contract, to agree on what conditions where, when and how Italian fishermen can fish in certain areas of the eco-fishing zone. Couldn't a strong coast guard have been created in four years? Couldn't the force of the Croatian Navy have been used? Couldn't we have significantly strengthened on that basis? Couldn't we have strengthened in that sense, which is also very important, which is a sense of safety at sea, the fact that this sea is a closed sea, the fact that Italy is never interested in using its protective elements and resources and of course not to declare a fishing belt in the Adriatic Sea, because it would declare it when it has both ours and theirs. And if she declared it, she'd only have her own from the epicontinental line. Therefore, Croatia must not only activate the eco-fishing belt immediately and now, and this is not because it would be called a political dogma but because it must clearly show both on the outside and on the inside that it has power, that it is a sovereign country, that it is a country that adheres to the law of the European Union but also its laws. The European Union, not one member, not a single instance of the European Union, will not and will not have the right to say to Croatia that it has done something that it has not had the right to do. Because that's just not true. The ever-lower levels, lobbyists, political and international blackmailers send messages that, for their special, particular goals, they think should be achieved, and the easiest way to achieve them on a land that has not recently learned to hit a table with its fist and say, "Enough, this is the border below which we are not going." That such a policy has never led Croatia would never be an independent state. So we have history and facts that tell us that we can and that we know it. Why is it good to do this now and right now? Why it is good to send the world but also to Croatian citizens a very clear message. Not a message that Croatia is an anti-European state. Not a message that we're radically inclined and that we have any hostile intentions. Of course not. But to send exactly the message Europe itself understands best, which is to protect our interests, to adhere to international rights, regulations and laws, international conventions, all that Europe is telling us to do. I'm sure that's exactly how we rule everything and in every way and at any moment that no one could ever object to us that we did something and that we took something that didn't belong to us. Unfortunately, I think sometimes a bad fact can open up space to a more quality view. There is also the fact that Olli Rehn, when he came to Croatia, said we could not declare and activate the eco-fishing belt because we signed something on June 4th 2004. Of course we never wanted to believe anything was signed. We do not believe today that anything has been signed because, of course, it was not possible to sign the basis of the decision of the Croatian Parliament which clearly stated in the decision, the amended decision that only fishing contracts, the partnership agreements could be discussed. And we kept talking about it. And not to mention that we cannot activate our economic belt before we enter the European Union. And it's clear they couldn't possibly. Therefore, if at least Olli Rehn opened up to us and gave us a chance to discuss today the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is true for the beginning of 2008, thank him at least for that, but 2008 is not the year that pleases us. It does not satisfy us for the reason that we carry the burden of burden, but also the quality of the year in which another government will be, some other parliament may be some other customs, and I don't think it gives credibility to any of us. We would have been far more pleased if we had seen this activation in some number that would have been written that after our decision, after we went out in the official note that we had a decision that was activated. Would there be technical problems with the neighbors? Well, we could solve those technical problems. Let's get political. This is a political problem. Let the departments at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Resort Ministries handle the paperwork. We need to make clear and unequivocal political decisions that should be clear to everyone, especially ourselves, because sometimes they are not clear to us, and then clear to all those concerned. And of course to the international community. So the HSS Club was and will stay. Let's activate the eco-fishing belt immediately. Let us not make small differences because I believe, at first, I said that in a political sense we all believe that this is primarily a national common interest that we need and we are obliged to respect our citizens, and then the interest that we defend our own country's dignity in the right way. Therefore, I still hold that there is no difference between us. But we also bridge these technical differences and the fact that they keep trying to train us to be careful, that we have no right to something that is clear that everyone else has a right. Because all the countries, all the countries in the Mediterranean except for Greece who can't declare it is what we don't want to activate. All the countries have done it. The Member States of the European Union and at a time when the members of the European Union are doing the same again, they activate because they want for themselves, for their people, to create a more favourable relationship for their citizens than those they now have. I therefore call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of the HSS, to accept that decision which will very clearly and precisely activate the protected environmental belt immediately so that we send a very clear message to both our fishermen and our citizens and the European Union that we are a country that knows how to defend its interests and which can seriously debate and negotiate politically, without injudicing either international rules or the unions of diplomatic or political behaviour, but to truly be the rights, responsible, independent European country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80204	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80205	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Markov said that someone wanted to train us and that he wanted to convince us that we had no right to do so. That's not true. Well, you know very well that's not true. Neither one of us is being trained nor convinced that we have no right because everyone knows we're right. The second thing is that we in the Croatian Parliament agreed that we will not apply to the countries of the European Union until the fisheries negotiations are completed. And that's all it's about. And today we have a clear proposal from the Croatian Government, and we will certainly defend this proposal with arguments and not with this kind of push... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80206	Thank you. We are going to the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. The motions of the Decision are the clubs of the representatives of HSS and SDP. How will you, who will share the time? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, you can. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80207	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Ministers, Ministers, Representatives and Representatives of the Government. Why is there a joint SDP and HSS proposal in front of the Croatian Parliament today to activate ZERP without delay and to members of the European Union? First, it is part of the constant policy and attitudes these two clubs had after a formal decision was made in October 2003 to declare a protected eco-fishing belt. Secondly, this decision is before the Parliament because after a triple change of HDZ's views on ZERP issues, we simply doubt that a proposal will come from the government that would respect the need to exploit the international right to declare ZERP. And thirdly, because this is not specifically about the proposal to activate the ZERP to members of the European Union, it is not about international law, it is only about the implemented international law, and it is not about European law. Therefore, this is not part of the negotiating package of our obligations to comply with the European acquis. I would like to emphasise one thing that is both in public and by the government not sufficiently explained. The international legal aspect of the ZERP activation issue for members of the European Union is not based on the Convention, the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. Croatia took advantage of the international right to declare ZERP, consumed in 2003. Because international law gives the country a sovereign right to declare or not declare an economic belt, gives you the right to choose the contents of an economic belt it wants to apply and give you the obligation to apply these selected content universally to all countries in the world. The selection of countries to which the selected contents apply is not part of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. It is one structure that the government, which the government resorted to in 2004, is, however, based on national legislation, national law. We do not dispute the national right to apply the contents selectively, but we stress that this was not part of international law and that today we cannot call on ourselves to activate or activate the ZERP and members of the European Union because of international law. We, the ZERP, and how we propose to activate this decision for the members of the Union, because we use the sovereign legislative will of the Croatian Parliament, national will, not international. Environmental significance, the ecological component in our proposal, of course, is also to be applied immediately. Because according to us after it has been done by other countries, i.e. Italy and Slovenia in the Adriatic Sea, we simply do not see another way of integrated environmental protection of the Adriatic. And that protection if we want it to be effective can only be integrated, common. Therefore, our current declaration of the ecological component is only an incentive to agree with all other participants in the use of the Adriatic Sea for a final agreement on integrated protection, environmental protection of the Adriatic. Furthermore, international circumstances for this decision-making are more favourable. More favourable than in 2003 when a decision was made on the declaration of ZERP. It has already been said more favourable because the European Commission, or European negotiators, has clearly told us that they will not and will not conclude fisheries partnership agreements with the candidate countries, and that is, an armed, armed condition to which the suspension should apply. I stress that the government either knew or should have known already at the moment of 3 June 2004 means only two weeks of obtaining candidate status that it should have known that the candidate's status was bearing with it the inability to conclude a Fisheries Partnership Agreement, and yet has agreed to do so, this agreement to be a condition, which practically meant delaying the application of the ZERP to members of the European Union all the way to our membership in the European Union. So after it became clear that the candidate status cannot agree on the Partnership Agreement, the need to conclude, make such a decision on the current activation of the ZERP and for the members of the European Union appears. Secondly, only the declaration by Italy and Slovenia creates a new legal situation in the Adriatic, at least on the ecological part that gives us the right to seek the current application and for our side. It is for us to make this decision, to test our position in further negotiations with the European Union. This is a test in which we will show ourselves and others how ready we are to be firm, determined, and in negotiations and how ready we are to defend what we jointly consider to be of national interest. This isn't a pre-election, it's a pre-accession problem. And such a decision cannot and must not be taken in the pre-election context but rather in the pre-accession negotiating context of strengthening our positions before the start of fisheries negotiations. We must build and strengthen our negotiating position here in Croatia, here in the Croatian Parliament and our national legislation, our national legislative sovereignty must be the foundation of this strong negotiating position. That is why we propose that you accept the proposal to immediately activate the ZERP and the members of the European Union, which also gives them a second more favourable dimension for the negotiations in this chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80208	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić. ... Correction of an incorrect quote you have before. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80209	Thank you, Mr. President. It is really interesting that today we are listening from the SDP order that they and the HSS in this way, this proposal shows a constant and constant policy of these two parties on the ZERP declaration. It's simply not an exact quote. It is not true that you are constantly showing a constant and constant policy with this proposal. It's simply incorrect. Well, in 2003, we saw it on Croatian television last night. You were saying the opposite. You spoke should be responsible for the EU's accession, we should be careful how we behave, so that's what you said. ... So you didn't say that then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the other thing is, it's also incorrect that more favourable relationships today are in that sense in which you spoke than in 2003. That's just not true. That's your alibi for your behavior in 2003, but that's not really an argument. And another thing, let me remind you. The decision the Croatian government proposes with application until 1.1.2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80210	Thank you. In the second part, the respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, gentlemen and Madam Representatives. So allow a few sentences on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club. The protection of national interests must be above all individual interests, above all pressures wherever they come from. Any state that has a responsible government must face that fact. 25 thousand square kilometers of Croatian sea today is outside the jurisdiction of the Croatian state. Anyone who thinks in a state-of-the-art way can't deafen to that fact. We must also be aware that no one can remain alone in the new world order, but must be actively involved in international associations. Free and without pressure, every country assesses what is most meaningful to it. The account gets... of the loss is what every serious government must do before it takes any concrete steps. In this case, by fishing in our Adriatic Sea without restrictions, Croatian fishing records daily losses. According to our fishermen' statistics, this almost amounts to 300m euros annually. Do we have to give the value of fishing from our Adriatic every day? Can't we protect our fishermen like Malta did, and we have to ask ourselves that fact, as we enter into the European Union, we can bring it out today and tomorrow. We know that the protected ecological and fishing belt of the Republic of Croatia on the Adriatic is equal to half of Croatia's land, and this obliges us both as citizens and as politicians. All of these are sufficient reasons for the Croatian Parliament to urgently review its decision, postpone application, and not to mention what can happen if we do not have control over the navigation of tankers and other ships with dangerous cargo in the Adriatic. Only one hararium of such vessels can be fatal to the ecological balance of our sea and shores and destroy to a large extent Croatian tourism. All this strengthens our position on the protection and preservation of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, which we have referred in the form of proposals for appropriate decisions to the Croatian Parliament, on the urgent declaration of the ZERP. It is unexplainable that Mr Ivo Sanader, the prime minister, who in 2003 took a warm stand for declaring the economic belt today as prime minister finds all sorts of reasons not to declare the ZERP. The policy he advocated, which had previously criticised the European Union's position on the Croatian declaration of ZERP, has now changed, and reacts to the same European Union by withdrawing and changing its position. This shows that the responsibility for state leadership in the direction of protection of interest and is not the stronger side of this government except for rhetorical purposes when it is necessary for internal calculation with political indivisibles. The time to calculate is no more, the determination of this issue is necessary. None of what is being a hindrance to us from the European Union is convincing. The declaration of ZERP is a unilateral act of the sovereign state and our diplomacy has so far had to convince our neighbours of Italy and Slovenia, not to know how our diplomacy is walking in Brussels and signing everything that comes under their hand. Let's protect the natural resources of the Adriatic and the coast today, declare ZERP without restrictions, because tomorrow will be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80212	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80213	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, a pre-election campaign was launched in a perfiduous way. According to counterpart Pankretic, protecting the national interests is not a stronger side of the government, that at some point in Brussels it is immediately handled that diplomacy signs everything and everything, etc. So listen, Mr Pankretic, at the time of your government you didn't decide on the strong moves you're proposing today, it's simply not true, everything you said is not true. The second thing, just at the time of your government, was that they signed off on Croatian territory. You agreed to the signatures that meant giving up Croatian territory. It happened at the time of your government, that's exactly what happened. So there's nothing you can do to transfer yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80214	Peace. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80215	Mr. President, my colleague Matušić hurt his Rules of Procedure because he wasn't correcting what I said but was correcting what I said and my opinion, and that Mr. President is impossible on that part. You know well that I have very clearly defined the situation concerning national interests and in that part... /The speaker has been turned off, so we have made it very clear in my presentation, which Mr Matusic cannot correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80216	Mr. Matušić did not injure the Rules of Procedure, but you injured him because you did not specify what provisions you would be obliged to specify, which provisions would be violated. And secondly, he was correcting your quote. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go on, it's no longer worth it now. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border. The promoter is the Government, we've accepted an emergency procedure. State Secretary of the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a very short one. So this is about the proposal, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border, in the function of what was mentioned earlier. Article 1 states that the following paragraph 3 is added: "The master of the cargo or passenger ship as well as the master of the yacht or boats intended for entertainment or sport in international transport is required after border controls have been carried out at the exit from the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80218	Louder.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80219	... to the shortest usual, or the shortest waterway to sail from the inner sea waters and the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia". This treatment has not been regulated so far and it has been observed that there has been abuse when leaving the Croatian Territorial Sea after border control has been carried out. And it is proposed to add paragraph 8 beyond paragraph 7 which will allow Croatian fishermen to enter the ZERP area without carrying out border control if they return within 36 hours to the port from which they have sailed or to another port on the territory of the Republic of Croatia without docking and boarding the territorial sea of another country. These other amendments also concern only this most important, and they concern only criminal sanctions for non-compliance with these provisions proposed in Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80220	Thank you. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? Legislative? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80221	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 86th session held on 15 December 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border with the Final Proposal of the Law and decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border in the text as proposed by the Proposer of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80222	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. PGS, SBH and IMF representatives' club, respected representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80223	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia has only one important interest, this is our Adriatic without which Croatia was another mitleurcopal terra incognito. The issue of protecting our Adriatic is the most important Croatian strategic issue. But how do we approach that question? I think often completely inadequate, almost always in search of some kind of party benefit. Remember, in 2003, and that crowding without order or concept, but certainly in the service of pre-election of demagogy. Today we have a replay of the then-only story with other actors, nice to meet you. There may be something in politics that causes more discomfort than Croatian foreigners. If there's a menu, it's not familiar. When it comes to ZERP, strategic policy in general, there must be a far-reaching Croatian position on politics that is intruding into international relations, unless it is a matter of principle. I'm talking about normal conditions, conditions of a stable system that we always have to strive for. The fact is that Croatia needs ZERP, that we must protect our seas, not only from insatiable neighbours prone to overexploitation but also from our devastationists. It is therefore a great shame that the ZERP issue regularly appears at the beginning of the pre-election season, without the necessary pre-production, without developed infrastructure, therefore, without realistic conditions for the application of the ZERP. If such conditions existed, I would be for the use of ZERP right now. But with one boat without coast guard, without an air radar system that can precisely follow the ZERP injuries, the current acceptance of ZERP would be without effect, another example of numerous Croatian laws without the possibility of real application, such a typical situation in our legal practice. Therefore, the Regional Party Club will vote in favour of the Government's decision on the ZERP with a delay in its application until 1 January 2008. However, we are doing this more out of the desire to stabilise the current government and the need to create conditions for controlling our Adriatic, not because in better circumstances we would not be able to use ZERP as quickly as possible or because we are afraid of some inappropriate reactions from the European Commission. I would like to say something about our awkwardness in negotiations with European instances. If it is indeed true that Barossov and Rehn's threatening stance is based on the signed "agrees minutes", therefore, a harmonised record, which made it clear that the Croatian Parliament would not activate the ZERP towards members of the European Union until the conclusion of the fisheries negotiations, then our State Secretary, who signed it and did not know that the "agrees minutes" were still mandatory, should go to the correctional exam. We must have a very well-drawn strategy and give up all improvisations and ex post interpretations. The natural matter, both the Government and the Ministry, and the representatives of the ruling party must be restrained, so to speak, on the matter of qualifications of the European Commission's moves and members of the European Union. I don't have to, so as a regional representative, I will say something very undiplomatic as a child of Dalmatian Croatia. Only one neighbouring country has the power to harm us dangerously in some other circumstances. That country is Italy. This is unfortunately the conclusion from the balance of our very bad experiences with Italian imperialism over the past century and a half. Politics change, governments change, ideologies change, but geography is a default. Graduation that in... since 15 March this year can draw the argument "historical fishing rights", so, the right fisherman historian, and against the proposal of our ZERP, thinks in a way that actually negates the European idea as it is presented in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am sorry to say this because Italy is the founder of the European Union. ... It is not irrelevant that Italian diplomacy was under the supervision of Finland at the time, but regardless of the specific circumstances, despite the fact that there must be another Italy that is not heard when it comes to trans-jadran relations, we must protect ourselves in the long term. Among other things, we must draw a line, a line in the sea as soon as possible. It is one thing for the European Commission to pressure us with the requirements that contribute to strengthening the European standards in Croatia. I am absolutely for the quickest application of all requirements, for the democratisation of our society, for the reform of justice8, for the elimination of corruption, for the better implementation of human and minority rights. This benefits Croatia, but it certainly does not benefit small Croatia when they are fishing about 2 billion euros a year from the Adriatic without any thought for our future. It's just a grab. We just can't give in. We must not accept such behavior. That's why ZERP is very, very, very important. The Regional Party Club supports the government's proposal for a consensus. I think it would be wise for all parties to give up the competition on this issue and accept a single position. In this, I think we need national unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80224	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80225	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of the Bank who said accepting the ZERP would be without effect. Acceptance says ZERP would have no effect. Well, the effect is immediately ecological in terms of protecting the Croatian Adriatic from these polluting ships, not talking about the effect of fishing, not talking about the economic impact on the sea, on the bottom. What are you talking about, Mr. Banac? This decision is without the effect you support, not the acceptance of ZERP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80226	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80227	Dear counterpart Banac gave a very content speech and I am pleased that he has discovered that the basic danger of capillary expansionism threatens Italy, but is not the correct assumption that it is true that the secretary of state has signed a concorded report denying on behalf of the Republic of Croatia the right to declare ZERP should go to the correctional exam. Unfortunately, that's true and it's a shame he's not here. He's my ex-friend, a rock critic, but he's really easy to sign. That's how he wrote the lyrics of rock reviews. It would be too easy for him to sign texts that weren't completely imaginary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80228	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting Mr. Banc's incorrect allegations when he said there were no conditions to declare ZERP, so I'm asking you, Mr. Banac, what was the government doing from 2001 to 2003? What this government has done from 2003 to today, and what it will do in the next 6 months or 10 months and create the conditions of good for declaring ZERP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80230	HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80231	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that this condition in which we are best characterized by the old Jewish proverb may well have no, because this is exactly how we characterize the state in which Croatia has actually been in since the '90s. So you can say until today when we talk about ZERP. Almost '95. We've had problems with land and one part of the sea for years. Since 2003, we have been having major problems with this section called the sea, i.e. a belt that includes the ZERP and a part of the economic belt. So it's a trachea that's been going on for 3 years, and now according to the government's latest proposal, it should be extended to the next year, i.e. by 1.1.2008. It has always been so obvious, and this time ZERP is in the role of accession to the European Union, but at the same time also of pre-election folklore. We are tired of hearing how crucial Croatia is just next year for this or that reason and how there are always justified reasons to protect ourselves from what or who, but at the same time we do not protect our national interest, which is why the syntagma "had no" is the greatest feature of all these events. Is there really any excuse to say that after 3 years we are not ready to use ZERP, or why we don't know the date of activation, because we say it will be 1.1, and maybe it will be sooner. You see, I was amazed to hear yesterday at the government's session on television, though, when the prime minister asked the secretary of state, "Can we activate it before 1.1?" He said, "Yes, we can." Interesting why we don't have a date when we can activate it sooner. We've sent an act to the Parliament where we say we're going before 1.1, and maybe we'll do it before that, and what's the prerequisite before that? Well, it's probably a prerequisite to determine whether we're ready or not to use ZERP. I think we're unprepared and that's why the government put option 1.1 next year or earlier. Which is why we're unprepared and the little children know that we didn't build a fishing fleet, and obviously, if we continue at this rate, we won't even build it for the next 50 years. We haven't opened a single fish market in three years, we haven't prepared any ports for fishing boats or anything like that. But what's important... However, in 2003, they found a model to protect national interest, and this solution then called the opposition a strange beak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is obvious that a good name has been chosen to be a strange beak because it is still valid today, but it is still this strange beak rare animal and we have put him in a political circus this time and we are trying to train him to be both an acrobat and a clown. Acrobats to manage to overcome all these political exhibitions backwards for several years, back a few weeks, and even back a few days, and the clown for a simple reason because this is how we do and how we interpret it at least becomes already ridiculous.. The main obstacle to the use of ZERP becomes a date. That is why we here in Parliament obviously cannot agree. Apply immediately, apply tomorrow, apply 1 July, apply 1.1 next year. However, which is why we do not want to reach a consensus about tomorrow and about July 1st. For the simple reason that the elections are in November, and November according to the calendar is always behind tomorrow and always after the month of July. However, all these dilemmas can be solved in a simple way. And that is to agree, in any case, to activate the ZERP before the parliamentary elections date and to try to agree on how at least one job of national interest can end in the term of office of two governments. I think this would be the first example of a job done. We have a historic opportunity, so it might be a good idea to try it here, us in Parliament and take advantage of it. In addition, I think that the Croatian public would sound good too, one government started the job and the other finished it regardless of the various political options that had a majority in the government and the Parliament. In addition to such a message, this could be a model for resolving other issues of national or strategic interest, for example, I start. of corruption, war profit, poor privatisation and so forth. It is important for me that HSS has always been active on the issue of the sea or protected fishing zone, and in some ways it is the child of the Croatian Peasant Party. However, a child conceived by artificial insemination rather than in a natural way. Maybe at some point it was an unwanted child for some. But it's interesting that now everyone wants to keep it in their laps, everyone wants to tattoo it, pet it. Of course, the reason is known. The election is ahead of us. But what else did we see back there for a few days? We've seen that we've been too afraid of international circumstances, of international factors, I don't even know what to call it. We were too afraid of some sanctions that would happen if we activated the protected fishing zone. Obviously, we've had completely wrong estimates, and the slowdown in the approach isn't going to happen. It would not have happened the same way if we had discussed it this way in the Assembly a few months ago. The other way around. I believe that we have activated the protected fishing zone in due time to make it more desirable for some countries in Europe. In that case, they would like to see us as soon as possible in their environment, and it would be our option to move the date with such dowry at a more convenient time for Croatia. But here's if we've been missing so much backwards for the last 16 years, because these options have been since the '90s. Until this year, who knows how much. Let's not miss now. Let's try what's called a national interest, what's called the Adriatic Sea, what's called ZERP, try to activate immediately. I think that on that trail are all the political options here in Parliament, let's try to make it happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80232	Thank you. Stop the time. Corrections to incorrect allegations, honourable representative Miomir Zuzul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Mr. Pecek's presentation, I thought a lot of conclusions, a conversation that I could easily agree with, but it came from the wrong premise. It was completely incorrect that the 2003 decision was a model that could have been done. The 2003 decision was one clumsy, unfounded by international law, unfounded by oscillations in international relations and created only problems and did not lead to any solution. I agree, of course, like all of us, and in this context I welcome the previous speech that we need to find a solution but not a solution that will create bigger problems. And yet I repeat, the 2003 decision was made exclusively for pre-election reasons, not to worry about what kind of solution it was, but to make a solution that had only opened new problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80234	Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80235	Thank you. In fact, all opposition representatives today who speak say that this government does not protect Croatian national interests. And I think that's incorrect and I'd like to make it right. If Croatia's main strategic goal is to join the European Union, then this proposal by the Government to postpone the ZERP until 1 January 2008 is a confirmation of this. All who would immediately declare ZERP I am afraid that they are not protecting enough Croatian interests because what will we get if we compromise the main strategic goal, the main strategic goal, so that in 2009 we can join the European Union?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80236	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80237	Well, they all...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80238	Next correction, honourable representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80239	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, Pacek, incorrectly stated that the Prime Minister asked the Secretary of State, can we activate the ZERP before? That's just not true. He asked him, can we keep an eye on ZERP? Because he didn't ask him that as you tried to insinuate it here. And the answer was that we can monitor because we are watching over those countries that are not members of the European Union now. So I'm asking you to use the truth here when you're quoting someone, at least quote correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80240	Dear Representative Luka Roic, below on behalf of the HSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80241	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It is simply impossible to be in the hall and not to talk about the subject when it comes to our sea, the rights that we have legitimate and do not refer to certain statements that are often said I would manipulate and misinterpret. Here, and now Mr. Zuzul is talking about some questionable legal decision that was made by the government, which she said something that doesn't seem to stand entirely because we heard that in the United Nations, the protected ecological and fishing belt is registered as an exclusive economic belt with the exception of tides and tides, artificial islands and windmills. Therefore, this is quite a basis for what Croatia could bring and bring for today. The predecessors and my colleague talked about how there might be some kind of pressure or even ultimatums. I simply don't believe in these ultimatums because I believe more in that other variant that actually the Government wants to achieve a lot with little energy and in that case ignores the fundamental fact that being correct in protecting their own dignity and their own identity is really a very difficult and responsible job. I simply in this decision to move it to next year see also manipulation and manipulation with the public and with everything that it wants to achieve and transfer responsibility to yet another government so what it was. Because if that wasn't so likely the date could be today and I wish the application of the eco-fishing belt was yesterday because every day we are sure that the delay is for Croatian national interests. I've heard and heard stories from the very beginning that our Adriatic is our wealth, that maritime orientation is our destiny long ago, but in that direction it seems to me that very little has happened and very little is working. That's why I won't be here too long because I won't have enough time to talk about the legal aspects of this decision. In my opinion, it is primarily political, it is primarily a protection of the dignity of Croatian politics, Croatian man, Croatian fisherman, all those who are fatally tied to marine resources. I remember and I have to repeat here no matter how many colleagues from the ruling party will certainly not respond well to the discussions we had in 2003. I remember that then Prime Minister Ivo Sanader supported such a proposal on behalf of the HDZ Club. So he went even further into the declaration of the economic belt, he was very bile and talkative. That's when he said this. And since we have already opened this topic, it should be said that the European Union cannot put pressure on this full responsibility, I am telling you, it cannot pressure Croatia not to declare an economic belt because it is based on the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is older than all decisions of the Union. Exactly. He went on and said there is no European future for united Europe if it is worth double the rules. And I could say that, and I totally agree with that claim. Therefore, regardless, he continued, as much as anyone could say Croatia has no candidate status, so he cannot even get involved in European affairs. It can also get involved in European affairs because Europe is not the European Union, Europe is all of us and the future of Europe depends on all of you, on all of us, however large, medium or smaller we are. I will speak on behalf of and quote Mr. Prime Minister that night as well. The fact that some people, so please kindly be angry with those who have brought the Convention on the Law of the Sea of the United Nations, because this convention clearly says that not in a unilateral agreement, but in a unilateral manner, it is not a question of the law of the United Nations, it can be declared. It continues that 130 countries here have declared and consumed the right that comes from the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of '82. A year. Moreover, experts say that the European Union strongly recommends that Member States and candidates expand their control of uncontrollable fishing in international waters. Therefore, by declaring the economic belt, we do what the European Union also recommends. As time slowly points out, I remember many quotes that fully support HSS's position from the very beginning, that the declaration of a protected eco-fishing belt is exclusively and the sovereign right of every state and that it can be declared autonomously.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80242	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80243	I'm going to conclude in this way that in one debate I said that regardless of all the qualifications that were given at that moment about the strange beak, about the chubby, about all those... I said that all of this was simply a big farce and that decisions like this would show a real decision whether something wanted or not wanted to be declared. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I was talking about the decisions that we made in the meantime that they're neither rice nor kanjak but that they're really the worst pastry wine that hurts the head today, and it's going to hurt the head for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80244	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague Roić continued in exactly the same way as his previous ones, which is actually a twisting decision and changing words and then coming to conclusions. Of course, and then and now, and I think that the vast majority of us agree that Croatia should and must declare an economic belt. But that's not what was done in 2003, and that's the story of a strange beak. What are we all forgetting now and pretending to be something? So one half decision was made that was not fully based on international conventions that created problems. So much for 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80246	The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80247	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, gentlemen of the Parliament! Yes, when I listen to these debates, a man would say the same target and a different distance, only depends on the positions that are in power and who is in opposition. However, no matter what, we all probably agree that the Adriatic is one sensitive sea, that the Adriatic is to be protected, that it is overfished areas. Although, most of all, let's be honest with the so-called. channels for which neither our neighbors nor anyone else are to blame, and now we have to agree on how to do it. It all started out wrong and it was a shame not to spin these videos in 2003 when our president, Mr. Vladimir Seks, performed with the thesis of a strange beak so we can say that today the HDZ government is reading what it was doing back then. But I want to say one more thing. Nor could the coalition government declare ZERP in 2003, nor could it, on today's day, the HDZ Government. Neither have they issued national interests in 2003 nor are they issued on today's national interests. In 2003, a decision was taken on the ZERP, which takes effect within a year of the adoption, which de facto transferred the responsibility to the new government and we see this recipe now being applied by this Government. And you all know that also in, in Bruxello this Barroso, the President of the European Commission called for the President of the Republic and said to him, "Mr. President, do you declare ZERP without neighbours following you the fate of Turkey." And now what do you do? Do you insist, declare a ZERP? Or give in and offer some version of the ZERP, or protection of the fish fund, economic belt and so on? There's no dispute. It is Croatia's legitimate right to declare ZERP. This enables us to mean the international commission, the convention is just a matter of whether we can do it today past the neighbours and what Croatian diplomats have signed? Did they commit to abstention or that signature that was placed on that famous record since 2004 hold or hold no water as it holds or does not hold water and that unfortunate 2001 paraphras. However, any time the sea is, we may not be lucky because the fate of the coasters is largely decided by continentals. And if I were right, I'd assume that our fishing fleet is on average 60 years old. Let's export 22,000 tons a year now. During the communist darkness before 1990, Croatian fishermen would process 55,000 tonnes of fish and today only 15,000 tonnes of which are up to 5,000 tonnes in Rovinj where 350 people work, but that is twice as much as they processed in 1990. In 1990, we were by catch 1:2 from the Italians. And today we're 1:10 counting and selling on black. And now what's the point of an Istrian fisherman who can't even go out 12 miles. First of all, to get to the ship, to get to the tools, to make its fuel as expensive as in Italy, to have a guaranteed ransom, not to be judged by the oysters from, so much as ZERP a year ago, a year later, is not what is essential to our small fisherman as much as to create the conditions that he can compete with the one from Italy. We gentlemen don't have any majors. There's one building in Poreč. 15.1. will be finished. 30.6. will be engaged. From the fishing industry there are only four respectable factories left, if that's even respectable for something. “Peaceful” Rovinj, “Adria” Zadar, “Mardesic” Komiza, “Poste” Brač. Of our five shipyards at this time, it works unfortunately only one thing, that Oilman from Pula. Six months ago, the government was one of those remaining shipyards. May," "Brodotrogiru", "Brodosplitu", "Kreljevici" paid 4 billion kuna. "Otter" or "cun". 9.12. that 4 of those shipyards received a $190m loan for liquidity that should be returned in the third place. How? I don't know. The "Olinik" has not received a single kuna and now someone else is proposing to unite these 3 shipyards in the northern Adriatic. In the hotel sector, the situation is similar. Istria itself earns 7 times more profit than the entire Croatian tourism sector combined. And so on and so forth, and we would show muscles. Okay. I'm in. Just so they don't get the fat end after that. Croatia has the right to declare ZERP. That's not controversial. The decision, I say, will be relatively easy to defend in Brussels. Only what will we defend this same ZERP at sea when 50 or 100 or so Italian fishermen sail in that protected belt? What about the Coast Guard? What coast guard, Mr. Tadic? What about 2009? I do not believe, though, and I would like Croatia to enter the European Union in 2009 and that this will happen when ZERP applies to everything. The same for Croatian fishermen as for Italian, Slovenian, Hungarian or Bulgarian. Finally, because they'll go before we go inside. So we have a decision before us if we enter the European Union in 2009 that can last, so we have a decision that can last exactly two and a half years. That's about 750 days. Is it worth the risk now, not the European future for a year, two that we can first and foremost escape from the Balkans? But what's far more important is whether in 2012, as some say, we might enter that euro area and start using EURO in these areas because with these economic parameters of import, export, external debt relations, and so on, I'm afraid we won't be able to do it forever. Now who's for ZERP? Are they the ones who have neat shipbuilding? Let's say "Olinik" who has neat liners. Who opens the ports of the fish market, who has one dynamic tourism. Who must have the only fish factory? Who has increased the number of fishermen since 1996 from 800 to 1200 as many as there are today in Istria or those who are making noises, show muscles and everything they could have destroyed in the 1990s. Now I guess that's where we come to being. Who's going to pay the price, I don't believe in political retributions from Brussels, Ljubljana, Rome, I don't believe, do those who do anything? Or are those whose economy is relatively stable? And don't forget that for example, and that's what I'm going to say, exporting Istrian County twice as big as the Primorje-Gorski? 35 times bigger than Dubrovnik County. So if it's someone for ZERP, it's Damir Cain. Why? Because the most vulnerable are the Istrian coasts. The Istrian coasts are the most vulnerable. I'm the last one who thinks anything should go down, but now do you head through the wall? I say it was all as simple as the epicontinental belt there declared between Croatia and... In 1962, even an economic belt, Tito would have declared it that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we evaluate now, yes, if we estimate that I'm first, first for. Croatia could declare ZERP by my court only at one time. If she hadn't had that unfortunate signature in 2004 on that record and we did it 24 hours after that or something like that was declared by Italy. If we were then, so in February of this year we declared ZERP I think it would be more and more simple today to alchemize with the zones, which may not be a bad thing, provided that the act is not understood clearly unilaterally, because everyone has to agree that the Adriatic is a threatened sea and it is clear that it is legitimately protected by this fishing fund. And as it is done, I could show from my experience some examples in the Wave of Savudria. That's '96. Let's say the Slovenians were doing something in the Piran Bay or the Savudrian Wave. A stake came to me when I was the president of the county assembly requesting to file or build several shell plantations. I said yes, we go to the assembly, he gets these concessions, but after that, after several protest notes arrived, only that Zagreb did not remove it but also disbanded the entire county assembly. But why am I saying that? So let me say if we go then we go all the way. But then there's no more retreating. But the alchemists won't bring us anything either. That it was silenced, that it was not politicized, that it was not intended on that national interest to get some small point I think we could have already had a ZERP, and this is how it serves to drink all interparty bickering and from that as Mr. Banac spoke there will be no happiness, neither for the fishermen nor for the Adriatic, and God to me ultimately nor for Croatia. Someone may get some political point, but, and it will be all at last but I doubt even one fish will be caught more. And in so many ways, I suppose this ZERP should have a function to catch more fish in fishing nets, not a political point more. I will repeat once again what Barroso Mesic said you will be in Turkey's position. Because that's what I talked to the president's office about. If someone postpones it until 1.8, by 1.1.2008, which is a kind of alchemy again, I'm afraid that after that, the new government will postpone it, unless it's anti-European. I don't think the real rulers of Croatia could do anything to Croatia. But you will see, gentlemen, what will happen in 1.1.2008 if there is a change of government. Since responsibility is certainly not up to us, I can say the same for everything, I am for the economic and belt and for these zones, but I am against the ground-floor politics that damages Croatia and that destroys our credibility in some way. And it's enough with that political ping-pong between a team that's once in opposition, twice in power, or vice versa, because it doesn't have a future. Finally, who can respect one immature policy, step forward two back? Who can respect politics without attitudes? Who can respect a policy that changes attitude every year so they don't know what they want? No one's simple. Who can be impressed by such a policy when one policy is led into opposition, the other when it comes to power, the third in the election year, the fourth when it goes outside the country to Brussels, and then the fifth in party meetings. And how much do you think he cares about people who sign one in Brussels, the other interprets in Croatia, and the fourth ones work among citizens, I guess? I say it's the hardest thing for Djapic to stay in the same position, whether it's the '90s. when some of us didn't sing "Yura and Bobana" and 2006. It is also difficult to remain in the same position in 2003 when it comes to ZERP and 2006 when it comes to ZERP. And lastly, the Adriatic is clearly worth protecting. The Adriatic needs joint protection for all the countries that share that pool. We need to get people together, we need to make a move, not make a move. But I should also take responsibility, because in the case of political damage, so God forbid economics can't be said after that we've made a little joke. Smart people, I don't know, I guess they should be restrained in everything here. And lastly, I'm afraid that after these discussions, and I'm sure of it, we're not going to catch a kilo more than we do today, nor will fishermen produce a skeleton more than today, nor will the Fish Fund, unfortunately be bigger than today. In one word, the Adriatic defends itself, protects itself with good neighbourly politics and a superior economy. Or as ancient Christians would sometimes say of a man-loving man who must sometimes be perhaps above patriotism. And finally, in two or three years when you draw a line under this debate, I'm afraid the result will be very modest. I won't say zero, but it won't be much bigger. And that's why I need you to sit at the table with the neighbors and protect this uncircumcised source I'd say wealth, that's the Adriatic. And that's the only solution. Everything else will neither help fishermen nor help the Adriatic, nor help politics. That's it. I will personally be restrained, and others will vote as they please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80248	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80249	After what my colleague Cain said, I can only tell me. So, colleague Cain says you can't do it unilaterally. So it was unilaterally done by Italy, Finland and Slovenia. They're not gonna say they're anti-European countries. Or that they were the ones that the anti-Europeans were proposing there. They did it in the part where you can do it. In fact, no European document prohibits that. He only requires negotiations on fishing, there are no obstacles to the ecological part. And that's what we say here. As far as the HDZ is concerned, there's...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80250	Thank you. Thank you very much. It's not anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80251	Give us support...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80252	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80253	Dear Mr. President, ladies and colleagues. I have to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect allegations, and I'm very embarrassed by the surprise. Because he attacked Comrade Tito because he said that Comrade Tito didn't want to declare an economic belt. He couldn't even declare an economic belt because...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80254	I didn't attack Tito, I said he could declare it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80255	Thank you. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Please. Thank you! Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go. ... It's just a little bit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. ... Nothing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. You're not correcting an incorrect quote. Please sit down. Here you go, Mr. Markov. ... No violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please sit down, you haven't even picked up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80256	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to correct it, although it is very difficult in this unusual report by Mr. Cain, a false assumption that neither the ZERP could be activated nor this government will be able to activate ZERP. And the argument is that there was a whisper between Barroso and President Mesic. I don't know how to whisper, but whispering can't be the main argument that something can't be done, Mr. Cain...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80257	Correction of the incorrect quote of colleague Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80258	So it's incorrect that whispering is the reason why you can't activate the ecological fishing zone, especially because I don't know who's the witness to this whispering, maybe Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80259	Injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Anto Djapic and Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80260	You violated Articles 209 and 208(3) because you did not allow Agent Kovacevic to complete the correction of the incorrect allegations. So the correction of the incorrect allegations was very clear because counterpart Cain had said that he would probably declare Tito's economic belt that it was in the interest. He couldn't declare it because he died in the '80s, and the 82nd Convention on the Law of the Sea. So he must have known Cain as the Titan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80261	No, that wasn't any sort of correction to the incorrect assumption or this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kovačević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80262	Mr. President, I ask you to hold a session to the Rules of Procedure because in my case, as President Djapic has said, you have injured Articles 214 and 209 and 208. You allow Mr. Matusic and his colleagues from HDZ to comment and everything else, stick to the Rules of Procedure and listen, have a little patience. A little patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80263	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Nothing. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80264	From this circus of speech I'll try to correct here's at least one statement. My colleague Cain incorrectly said that I am for everyone, Mr Cain is not for everyone even though he tried to prove it in all possible ways and showed that he was against ZERP.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80265	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. ... It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's a commentary statement. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80266	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80267	You did not correct your colleague Jurjevic, so I give you a warning. Here you go, Mr. Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80268	I believe this will be a correction to the wrong assumption when the esteemed Mr. Caine says the problem is that the fate of the coasters is decided by continentals. Here on behalf of continentals who are at the heart of both the Adriatic and the Adriatic Sea, I can say that it may have been so before, it may have been done in an unsatisfactory way, but today the fate of the coasters and continentals is decided by the man from Jurjevic's Split, Ivo Sanader, the prime minister who does not wish to declare ZERP, and we also see that some MPs from the coast do not want me to do so as a continental.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80269	Honorable representative Ante Markov, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80270	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain incorrectly said he had nothing to do with it, so we don't have the tools to worry about and that we could control ZERP. It's completely incorrect, Mr. Caine. The Coast Guard, headed by the Croatian Navy and in such a scarce and difficult situation along with port captains, can help very effectively and without any problems tomorrow, can stop all ships tomorrow and can control our seas around ZERP without any problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80271	And the esteemed representative, Mr. Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80272	Mr. President, Mr. Cain said there are already shell plantations in Istria, which is really impossible. There can only be shell growing sites, but if there is a real shell plantation, I would pray that it shows to the whole world what Istria has in its development. Maybe we frogs make a frog plantation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80273	Thank you. Minister Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80274	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. With the understanding of all the arguments presented here today, I repeat, in particular, those on the protection of national interests once again that the Government of the Republic of Croatia wanted to reach a consensus here in Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament on the decision-making of the ZERP. First of all, I stress that the sovereign right of declaration is unquestionable and that is what everyone agrees on, and indeed no one is questioning it. Allow me to demystify another document, or minutes signed at the meeting 4.6.2004, at which Mr Hido Biscevic informed of the decision of the Croatian Parliament the day before, so on 3 June 2004, ZERP does not apply to the Member States of the European Union until the Fisheries Partnership Agreement. That document is not hidden from the public. In press release No 160/04. which was placed on the Ministry's website, on June 4th, is attached to the entire report, the whole document and it is still on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration website in the archive. Furthermore, when it comes to national interests, no one protects the interests of the Republic of Croatia and national interests more than this Government of the Republic of Croatia. In this proposal for a decision that we made before the Croatian Parliament, two national interests are being protected. One is the protection of the sea, the fish fund, the strengthening of the status of our fishermen, which my colleagues here will speak of, and another is of interest not to harm Croatia in the process of joining the European Union, which does not mean that we are negotiating with the European Union but is all that is being reported to the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union, given that we are the responsible state. And I also agree with the opinion that has been delivered here today, that this decision must not have a pre-election but a pre-accession context, and that is why it should be acted responsibly rather than demagoguely. When it comes to the date of 1 January 2008, we decided that this was the appropriate date with the full support of fishermen. It's not the word that they agreed to it out of some kind of chaos or because they had no other choice. The fishermen supported it, they were part of the task force and it was supported by the Ceh fisherman's conclusions. We have decided that this is an appropriate date, but no later than 1 January 2008, which means that this can be achieved before the application of the ZERP, and when the conditions are met, because it takes time to strengthen the fleet, to apply the regulations. There are some measures that cannot be realised if there is no cooperation neighbouring countries, and they must also get to know and prepare for the application of our regulations, and indeed the protection of the Adriatic must be of common interest to all Adriatic states, so we will discuss the protection of the Adriatic not only with the European Commission, Slovenia and Italy but also with other countries that are on the Adriatic. So, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro and Albania. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80275	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80276	I didn't think Madam Minister could behave like other members of the government, especially the prime minister. Well, it seems he can because he claims completely untrue that no one is protecting national interests better than this government. Not only is it incorrect, it's also funny. Two days ago we had quotas to export sugar to the European Union, today we have a government decision not to declare the ZERP without reminding you before it was with the Hague Court. Well, come on, now a few HDZ colleagues smile at it because it also protects national Croatian interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80277	Thank you very much. Please, don't provoke and challenge the MPs. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80278	It refers to the same statement by the Minister that no one is protecting more national interests in Croatia than this government. This statement is incorrect because this way of protecting the national interests of Croatia would be very pleased with those who protect the national interests of Italy and Slovenia. There used to be talk here about weird beaks and that one's a contract beer... It was a zoological phase in the development of HDZ's political mind... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80279	Thank you very much. Please sit down. Thank you very much. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80280	So I'm correcting a few incorrect allegations from Madam Secretary. The Minister reiterated how the fishermen agreed. Madam Minister, you cannot correct the President of the Ceh Fisherman who said on the radio this morning that they were in extreme need, in despair when the Government did not want to declare or postpone the prolonging and application of the fishing-environment zone, and that their position is to immediately. And as for the protection of national interests, Madam Minister, the day before yesterday, the government made it impossible for Slavons to grow and produce sugar beet, tomorrow they will close their sugars, and today it makes it impossible for fishermen to fish, that is, our Adriatic Sea to become a dead sea. It's so much about protecting this government's national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80281	Proposer Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80282	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It is a good call for the Minister to understand more clearly that we are demystifying the subject, but a very difficult expression of words will be enough for people to understand what we are talking about and what we want to achieve. They also want to see the results of those words. So they want to see and feel what they've been talking about too long. There is namely part of the misunderstanding that says that the legal framework of ZERP is not exactly the best legal framework. Namely, it cannot be and is not an adequate measure under international law on the law of the sea, which is, of course, entirely incorrect. The government, too, confirmed with this follow-up to the decision that it agrees with the legal value of the 2003 ZERP. Therefore, it is legally in agreement both with the Charter of the United Nations and with everyone. Of course, if we were to declare and activate the ZERP today, by the end of the year, no one is defending us to activate the entire economic belt. And that would be one step that we would all confess together that we could make one huge step and one big consensus without injure any international rights, international regulations. But let's not go round and round, accusing each other from 2003 to 2007. Because it is unnecessary, it is exhausting from which Croatia will not benefit. Therefore, Prime Minister Sanader's invitation to a consensus was good but no further efforts were made and the right form was not found to achieve the consensus. That's bad. This is also bad for building the dignity of the Republic of Croatia under international circumstances. It's bad as a message to the neighbors, but it was as bad as it was in 2003 as it was 2007. Therefore, let us not learn to repeat bad examples over and over again. Therefore, citizens expect us to all have made one step together in which we have matured as politicians and as a state to just show that not by chance Croatia is at the door of the European Union. Not by chance today we enjoy a reputation in relation to the whole region. Not by chance, we will be members when we are, but we cannot be members or at least as far as the HSS is concerned, we should not be members if we step down our own values and we will speed up our approach to the European Union through these values. Therefore, but I believe that it is not mutually opposed and there is no ban on the thesis in which here today can be debated. It is incorrect that our infrastructure from the Croatian Navy, of the port facilities, of all those public services that Croatia today has at sea cannot control. Well, there are so many privates with ships over 30 meters. We'll take their ships and we'll control our secure seat belt. Therefore, the defense can't be the thesis that we don't have the strength, we don't have the resources that a country can't control 25,000 square miles of its space doesn't hold water. Therefore, if we want a consensus, it can be achieved both with the HSS and with the HSP. Let's declare what we're looking for, set deadlines and be consistent, clearly, let's not let the citizens have to listen and listen to what they said the next day. Therefore, let us not further confuse citizens or fishermen or anyone else. Because all together they expect clarity from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80283	Thank you. At 11,37, it was time for an individual debate at these points. 20 MPs and MPs have applied for the debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80284	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here again, the subject that has been the subject for the past three years is the subject of outwitting or quoting from the strangely beaked to the shelled hens. Since 3 October 2003 and 3 October 2004 and 3 June 2004 until the fishing contract we are now on 1.1.2008 some of us would be 1.7.2007, the third 6 months before the election, the possibility that by the end of the debate will be the proposal to declare ZERP 5 months and 19 days before the election. There's a ZERP, a ZEP and a REP. I don't know how these terms come anymore and where we'll end up if the debate lasts for, say, two days. And today we are talking about this subject either/or, or ZERP or Europe. Can we still talk about this topic about going both ways? Can Croatia activate ZERP without jeopardising its European future? We think that in 2003 we can also courageously declare ZERP, but delayed application for 12 months and in those 12 months no one has done anything, but almost no one has done anything to allow Croatia to use its sovereign rights in the decision of the Croatian Parliament after the end of those 12 months. Then, on June 3, 2004, we humbly said that we would do so once we signed some kind of fishing agreement, but when we became a candidate for membership in Europe, it was clear to everyone that Croatia would never have such a contract with the European Union. There was also something signed in Brussels recently, i.e. the team about whether it was a record or a note, and it doesn't just matter how we read the content of what was signed there but obviously we have to respect that those other signatories of that paper have read something different in it. It would be good for us to be more careful in signing papers in Brussels and finally realize that once we have signed no agreement with the European Union on a common fisheries policy that we need to make a final decision on the ZERP. But in 2004. Croatia has done to itself something that no other state has done. It allowed fishermen of the European Union to fish in that area, but it did not do so to its own. So, we created ourselves in 2004 and in 2004 our fishermen a status of discriminatory position, but not after that, and as is evident from the state budget for next year we realized that only the declaration of ZERP for Croatia has no effect, there is no benefit, that we must prepare a series of institutions and bodies of the state authorities to use this sovereign right that Parliament's decision means. We haven't refurbished or increased the fishing fleet, we haven't built fishing ports or founded fish markets, and I'm saying we don't even have a real coast guard. Study of the Faculty of Brodar in Split, which was recently completed by someone's order. ... Zagreb. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. It claims that Croatia must have 5 offshore and 9 coastal ships worth around 200m euros for the surveillance of the ZERP area and only with such fleet can we control the ZERP aquariums. That's not my claim, that's what they projected. Therefore, only then will we be able to say that we have prepared to control it voluntarily. At the moment when the Coast Guard would send both scooters and that balloon from Red Bull, they probably wouldn't be able to control what gives us the sovereign right. The common fisheries policy of the European Union does not provide for an increase in fishing capacity. The European Union's common fisheries policy does not foresee an increase in the fishing fleet, which means that what we do in 2007 and 2008, and in 2009, we want to join the European Union, it will be the upper quota of the fishing fleet that we will have and that is why the Croatian People's Party Club has additional proposals. ZERP is a decision by which the Republic of Croatia activates its sovereign rights to research, to exploit, to preserve and manage living natural wealth outside its territorial waters. Can we protect the Adriatic ourselves? Can we protect the entire Adriatic Sea only by comparing the number of inhabitants on our side and on the other side who live alongside the Adriatic and the Adriatic? Or is the protection of the Adriatic an obligation and the object of the bargaining with those who live by the Adriatic? We at the Croatian People's Party Club did not agree to debate or/or agree to bid with dates. We are interested in content and as a prerequisite for accepting this delay is part of what the Government has proposed to open ZERP without bureaucratic procedures by amending the Law on the Borders of Croatian Fishermen and therefore we will support the amendment of the law. As always for the vote on the postponement on 1.1.2008, and what is evident from the state budget is that the Government is obliged to rebalance the 2007 budget to provide funds for the renewal of the fishing fleet, the construction of fishing ports, the opening of the wholesale market and the equipment of the coast guard so that in 2007 and 2008 Croatia is a year of full preparation for the application of the rights of Parliament's decision and the vote of the Croatian People's Party club will depend on the government's clarity on these proposals of the law. And finally, I am aware of the fact that for five days already in the Croatian public, the count of MPs has been going on, tables like the football league table are being published and they are being classified for and against, speculated and speculated on how many votes the government has in and how much against this decision. For us, however, this is not a vote for or against the government. And this isn't the topic on which we plead whether we're for the government or against the government? ... We are here to plead and decide whether Croatia will activate ZERP and obtain the conditions to protect the Adriatic Sea jointly and in agreement with those who live on it or around it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In 2003, ahead of the election, a hot potato of ZERP was left to the new government. Today on the eve of the election and this power of realization of ZERP leaves after the election. We are also ready to accept this challenge, and this is the reason why, under the terms of acceptance and the proposal for conclusions that we will give in writing to vote for the amendments to the Law on Borders and for the Government's proposal for a decision to activate Croatia's ZERP from 1.1.2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80285	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80286	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague Lesar. The first was when he said Croatia had no protection ships if ZERP was immediately declared. That's incorrect. There are ships of the Croatian Navy and ships, as Mr. Ante Markov said. I'm also correcting another incorrect assumption. Says Mr. Lesar, this is a debate about a strange beaker, or in the end, there's been a mutilated chicken. It is nothing like a shelled chicken or a beak but a debate on whether Croatia will use its sovereign right to declare ZERP or not? Thank you. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80287	Dear Representative Željko Antešić. Here you go. Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80288	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar incorrectly said we don't have a proper coast guard. That's incorrect. We have no coast guard or could say that we have some strange beak from the Coast Guard or that there is a project of this government in which the military will do coast guard work, which is completely inappropriate and represents the militarization of the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80289	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80290	Eh, that's where my colleague Lesar listed some scooters and a red bull. First of all, I think it is underestimating Croatia's maritime potential. This is about Croatia being able to model the Norwegian model in the transitional period because we will not need a coast guard at all when we become members of the European Union. About the Norwegian model have a volunteer boat rental, let's say Goran Ivanisevic and other people with potential...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80291	Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80292	Correcting means that it is an insult to Croatian maritime potentials at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80293	Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80294	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Lesar said that among other things, the HNS club would vote in favour of the government's proposal for intervention in the Law on the crossing of the state border would bring Croatian fishermen to an equal position on the side. That's completely incorrect. It's even funny where a workshop like that came out of 36 hours. What does that mean? That we'll make them come back after 36 hours and sail 10 hours to get to shore. This should be defined in a way that is obliged to apply to customs controls as is common in the world and only if they come into ZERP in physical contact with a foreign ship or leave the area of ZERP and enter the territorial sea of another country. And another thing, almost all Croatian fishermen have a category of sailing by the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia up to 12 miles. Therefore, intervention is also needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80295	Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80296	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Allow me to say a few words on behalf of the promoter about something that is not directly related to this decision but is very important for the fisheries of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to stress that the situation in fishing in the Republic of Croatia is not what we would like but I would also stress that positive shifts over the last three years have been made which can be justified by the quantities of fish caught and also by quantities in mariculture but also by processing. But what I want to point out is that the government is making a huge effort and that this year's budget alone for the renewal of the fishing fleet was on paragraphs 3 of the ministry. So, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Social Care cca. 100 million kuna to co-finance the construction of the fishing fleet. Also, this government is well aware of the lack of infrastructure needed for the needs of fishermen in terms of fishing ports, landing sites to the necessary wholesalers and activities in this direction are heading their own direction. We are not satisfied with the dynamics because from fishing ports to wholesalers we cannot implement measures without certain co-operation both with local self-government and with regional or regional self-government. So, the funds for the wholesalers are secured in the budget and will be secured in future budgets as well as for the construction of the fishing fleet, which will allow the launch of another tender for the renewal of the fishing fleet. And in this context, we as Government are aware of the situation and are ready to provide additional financial resources but a normal decision on rebalancing, the decision on the budget is made by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80297	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80298	I want to correct the incorrect assumption that positive fishing developments in Croatia are recognised. You can hardly talk about it. It could only be said of positive shifts if fishermen who today fish in the Adriatic could live their lives in order to carry out their activities under well - arranged conditions. All that is stated by the minister as positive shifts in terms of investment in effort and resources do not produce any results, only those fishermen who do not work legally live well. Those who work legally do not make a profit, have no regulated market conditions and therefore cannot talk about positive shifts but about the simplest stagnation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80299	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80300	Says the minister's assets are secured. The funds were supposed to be provided to Mr. Minister all these years. You build fishing boats at a pace like you're building aircraft carriers. The logs are just in... Coast Guards are gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What have you been doing for three years? You need to be naive so believe you'll do it in the last 12 months if you're not thirty-six.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80301	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80302	Mr. Minister said the three ministries increased funds for the construction of the fishing fleet. It's not exactly about the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, etc., it's the minister. I had an amendment, it was said that it was such a pace that de facto these funds were no longer needed because it was such a pace to actually build what was planned. As far as we know, fishermen are saying that this fleet will be operational by 2017. Then there will be no beaks, no rice, no bows, no devil knows what will be, a chorban in the sea. But it's about the fact that you told me about the majors. I know that the issue of the Commission of the Major Market has not entered the spatial plan of the County of Split-Dalmatia but the fact is that HDZ is in power and that you are the Minister of the Government and that you could make that major market, that the funds are found for it and it is not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80303	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80304	Well, Mr. Minister, wanting to justify or point out the justification for the proposed decision proposed by the Government, points out that the planned funds for the renewal of the fleet are in the budget for the reconstruction of the markets or for the construction of wholesale markets, etc. And that, as you think, should be the reason for this decision. Mr. Minister, the funds were also planned in this year's budget and last year's budget, but because of the government's silly policy, the funds were not even used, and it is not a belief that anything that has been planned, that anything will be done this year and next, but rather a demagogue that actually wants to convince us or devalue us in the eyes of the citizens that we are dealing with pre-election demagogy. Mr. Minister, you're in pre-election demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80305	Why do you call, in correcting the minister's incorrect claim when he didn't mention anything about it, he's engaged in demagogy? ... HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80306	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen of the Croatian Government! This is the third time in the Croatian Parliament in six years to discuss the need to declare an economic belt. The HSP launched this in 2001, but all these years, in different ways, it approached the topic. I'd quote here two statements of the day about it in 2003. So one quote says: "We respect the current Convention on the Law of the Sea by declaring the economic belt. By declaring that belt we will be more respected as a state, we will have a stronger negotiating position with Italy regarding the use of that part of the sea.". Another quote: "The European Union cannot press and with full responsibility I say cannot pressure Croatia not to declare an economic belt because it is founded in the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is older than all decisions of the European Union.". This is how the HSP initiatives were discussed by Mr Luka Bebić and Mr Ivo Sanader and we therefore expect that today the HDZ Club will support the initiative of the HSP to declare the economic belt and immediately activate its ecological part and the fishing part shortly afterwards. Why is it necessary to declare an economic belt? We've heard a lot about it all these years. I will repeat it again because it is the best mechanism for protecting the sea, because it will protect the biological resources of our half of the Adriatic and enable them to be managed by the Croatian state. Is international law on the part of the Republic of Croatia? Absolutely is. The Convention on the Law of the Sea allows that to all those who have international waters ahead of their territorial seas. So there's no problem. Has the European Union forbidden anything? No way. The ecological part of the economic belt is not at all part of the European acquis. We have nothing to talk about with the European Union or ask them for permission as this Croatian government does whether it is Mr Hidajet Biščević or Ms. Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. We can only negotiate the fishing section in accordance with Articles 60, 61 and 62. The Convention on the Law of the Sea. But we cannot ask the European Union for permission to declare an economic belt. Even in the fishing area, the European Commission said at its 2003 Ministerial Conference in Venice that it urged all Mediterranean countries to declare their fishing zones to better protect the Mediterranean fish fund. Moreover, they will accept as welcome the precedents of those who have done so before, which is exactly what Croatia has declared in 2003. International law and European documents are on the Croatian side. The problem is that today's Croatian politics is not on the side of the Republic of Croatia. Why did it have to go to Brussels faster in 2004 and sign some kind of record? Why was it necessary to promise the European Union this or that? Why did it take so condescendingly to take the arguments for what would come later? The moment you ladies and gentlemen agreed to have Italy and Slovenia prescribe what Croatia can do outside of the European acquis, you actually stabbed Croatia in the back with all the next negotiations. Today it's an economic belt, tomorrow it's sugar, the day after tomorrow will be the privatisation of HH, etc. It's about when you agree to what's not part of the acquis communautaire you're actually opening up a chance with all kinds of blackmails that will multiply by the day you enter the Union. Other countries didn't even think about discussing it with the Union. It only discusses what is part of the Acqui Communityaire. Which is part of the European acquis. I'm not surprised here by the naiveties of Croatian fishermen. People have accepted the system "Give me what you give" so let it be in a year, if God will, because these people have been waiting for years, but the economic belt is not just a question of ladies and gentlemen fishermen. The economic belt is also a question of the pollution of the Adriatic. That Italy unilaterally declared the ecological part of its economic belt on 30 January this year without asking Croatia because it was neither supposed nor asking anyone in the Union because it should not have, in the same way that Finland as chairman declared its economic belt in the Baltic Sea without asking anyone because it was not necessary. That's how Croatia should have done it. And immediately after the Italian move in February of this year, our Club of Representatives sent a letter to the Minister and Prime Minister requesting that Croatia activate at least the ecological part when Italy had already done so. It was left without an answer or the answer was so unusual that I don't want to quote it here out of courtesy. So what's this about? Satellite footage shows that year after year we have more and more cases of oil spills in the Adriatic for intensive tanker traffic. When the middle turns out that we have about 250 oil spills a year in the Adriatic and it looks like an ugly spot. So as Italy has now declared its ecological part of the economic belt, all this will happen on our half of the Adriatic. And that is the reason, a very solid reason for Croatia to now activate without delay the ecological part of its economic belt. It's another important moment in the fisheries negotiations. Because it is only by activating the ecological belt that our economic belt begins to be an international and legal fact for the countries of the European Union. With this proposal that you want it will not be an international and legal fact for the European Union during the fisheries negotiations. That's the thing you've done here very lucidly, I must admit. You are, however, protecting the interests of the European Union but not of Croatia. In the same way that in 2004, you put in that thesis that this will be delayed until the conclusion of a fishing agreement, although such a contract is concluded by countries that do not go to the Union. So again on an indefinite deadline. So the economic belt requires consistency that the HSP has shown all these years. It requires determination and knowledge of international law and non-improvement. We are too improvised here, too much bargaining with our neighbours, and we have put ourselves in a position for Italy and Slovenia to prescribe what we can do when it comes to protecting the Adriatic. That same Italy is dead, so it declared an ecological part of its economic belt by not asking anyone anything. But the same Italy has already sent two notes to the UN Secretary-General in 2004 and 2006, which opposes the use of the border line by the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, even when there is no international right behind it, Italy tries to play in a way contrary to both the UN Charter and the Convention on the Law of the Sea and all European Union documents. And we're letting it go dead cold. Watch out for these two notes none of Croatia responded. And especially not the permanent mission of Croatia to the UN, which is sad. So in one note, it is said that they do not want to agree to the middle line because it was adopted in other geographical circumstances in the epicontinental belt. I guess until the state of Croatia existed, it was Yugoslavia. And in the second note, keep an eye out for historical fishing rights. Historic fishing rights. So we are dealing with an opponent who will do anything to prevent Croatia from its original rights under the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Charter of the UN. This is why today the declaration of the economic belt is one of the national priorities. We are, in fact, proving that Croatia should behave in negotiations with the Union because today it is the question of all the issues it has raised on behalf of our Club, President Djapic, and that is: is Croatia allowed to do something that is not part of the European acquis until it has become a member of the European Union? In the HSP, we believe that he can and you in the Croatian government think he can't. Because, in fact, you admit that Croatia has limited sovereignty for you as long as negotiations with the European Union continue. If that's the case, it's very sad. So we believe that Croatia can and must activate the ecological part of its economic belt. That it does not prohibit any European Union document that has not been in place all these years. That this is not at all controversial and that all the members of the European Union do so. But where did this subject suddenly become so important? Where rebalancing is now suddenly being made, and there was no such funds provided for either coast guard or ships. It all went at one slow pace. It happened that Olli Rehn came to Croatia. It happened that in the Ollie Rehn conversation, he came up with this famous paper. It happened that the government realized that it would be very bad for her in the pre-election year, and now in general panic went into these supplements completely unprofessionally done in which you speak yesterday about how this will apply to fishing vessels only since 2008 and today it is spreading rapidly to all other ships. Is it not known whether it refers to the ecological component or not? If it doesn't apply to environmental why not? So it is a general panic of the Croatian government that wants to prove that it stands still for the protection of Croatian fishermen and Croatian seas. But no one can explain to me what happened to those same people who until yesterday claimed that the European Union cannot pressure Croatia not to declare an economic belt? What changed in the meantime? What document did the European Union bring to Ivo Sanader to say one thing by yesterday and now she's talking to the other. What happened within a week when he was fighting with Degert and it worked out with Degert. When was the European Union being threatened and withdrawn? Where did all this go together? It is a typical sloppy Croatian operation in international affairs that outlines the government's typical schlamper. So a fierce statement followed by a desperate realization. We don't agree to that kind of improvisation, we never agreed to it. We believe these Italian notes should have been answered. We think it was necessary to activate the ecological part of our belt when Italy did. We consider it a day today. And we believe that Croatia has no, absolutely no reason to do so today. After that, we can continue our fisheries negotiations in the way Malta has already done it. So defining the ecological maximum output. By defining the capacity of our fleet and allowing in our fishing band boating and fishing according to our rules. I repeat once again, the economic belt is not just fishing. Economic belt is also a protection of the environment. For all these reasons, for taking care of the Adriatic that we all love, for taking care of the Adriatic that we all show in principle. I kindly ask you not to raise political differences today and support the initiative on the declaration and current application of the exclusively economic belt, so the same thing the HSP has been asking of this High House for 6 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80307	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80308	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Tadic said that this Croatian policy does not protect Croatian national interests. That's just not true. There's no argument for such an argument. On the contrary. This Croatian policy is very much protected, it protects national interests. And my colleague, Tadic, it is clear to me that you are disappointed that the fishermen, the fishermen, invited all parties in the Croatian Parliament to support this proposal from the government. It's clear to me that you're disappointed in it. So here's...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80309	Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80310	Here's a clear call for the Czech...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80311	Peace, please! A company of fishermen, calling on all parties to support the Croatian government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80314	If it were in their interest...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80315	By force?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80316	It is obviously in their interest that the Croatian public does not hear what is true. And the truth is that fishermen invited all parties to support the Croatian government's proposal. And that's the truth, buddy, that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80317	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the representative delivers his opinion, raises his views. We, please, please. If you hold that it is not, that Business is fine, you cannot force and violence to interrupt a representative and work in the Parliament. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80318	Dear Mr. President, an esteemed colleague has injured, or violated Article 209 and you have had to give him a warning in accordance with Article 214 and disabling further speech. Because he didn't make it right at all. He had to quote what he was correcting, and he didn't quote it, he entered the replica. And I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure, and do not apply the Rules of Procedure only to us, but also to violate it, and to them to allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80319	It's not true and it's not true. The representative was correcting the incorrect allegations. Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80320	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I repeat once again that the minutes of the June 4th 2004 meeting did not surface during Commissioner Rehn's visit to Croatia, but had been public since 4 June 2004. I also remind you that when it comes to notes that Croatian diplomacy corresponds in accordance with diplomatic practice and UZUS that any note received by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or any of our diplomatic and consular representations are bilaterally addressed to that note. After all, it is also an international obligation to respond to notes. And if they're deposited in some international bodies, then we're reading about them and their contents when we're informed. I also remind you that when we talk about 2003 and the 2003 argument that circumstances were different then. That Croatia, meanwhile, became a candidate for membership in the European Union, began negotiations and began to realise one of its fundamental national interests. When it comes to the mentioned fisheries partnership, given that the procedure for its conclusion takes a long time, the European Union does not conclude it with the candidate countries that are negotiating, and we started negotiations later after that decision of the Croatian Parliament. Once again, the fact is what we are talking about today is not part of the Acquis although we will soon begin negotiations on the common fisheries policy Croatia decision and the Croatian Parliament decision to reactivate ZERP by 1 January 2008 at the latest makes it sovereign and independent. But it is responsible for reporting to the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union, as I have said to others on the Adriatic. And I also remind you of this record from the 11th meeting of Croatian Chamber of craftsmen from Brela, 21 October 2006, which calls on all clubs of the Croatian Parliament's representatives to support the proposal for a decision made in the attachment and is an integral part of these conclusions. It also states that the decision is to be amended in a way that, in the case of the application of the ZERP to the Member States of the European Union, it will be after the closure or completion of the negotiations referred to in Chapter 13. Fisheries between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia and no later than 1 January 2008. By making the decision we proposed to the Croatian Parliament in any case, we led first and foremost on the interests of Croatian fishermen. Their representatives were part of the working group, and they also supported not only the measures taken in this decision, but all measures to improve the status of the Croatian fishing industry and the protection of the Adriatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80321	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80322	Madam Minister, you say you answer the notes when you get them. The notes were published in the United Nations Secretary-General Law of the Sea bulletin. So do you ever send notes or just...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80323	It's not an explanation. It's a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80324	... [[The speaker's off, he doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80325	This is not a correction to the incorrect quote of counterpart Tadic. That's what you're looking for, you're commenting, you're commenting on the minister's reasons. Dear representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80326	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80327	So state which is an incorrect quote, which is an incorrect argument. Don't comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80328	It's an incorrect assumption that she didn't have to answer the notes. I ask her when she's pointing notes. When he points his notes to what he sees...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80329	She didn't say that. Please, she didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80330	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80331	Don't pollemize. Ladies and gentlemen, you have representatives within your Rules of Procedure to express your views, your speeches, your explanations, but don't be under the firm's false allegations. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80332	Thank you. I am correcting the Minister's allegations that Croatia is now achieving national interests. That's just not true. And that was not agreed by the prime minister of the government, then the opposition MPs, when we made the decision, he said. So in the economic belt, I quote him: "This is about Croatia and Croatian interests. The European Union cannot pressure Croatia not to declare an economic belt, as this is based on the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is older than all decisions of the European Union. ... It's a quote from the Prime Minister at the time, his words he took part in the debate when we made a decision on the declaration of the fishing-environment zone. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] The Minister may speak for himself, but elsewhere, and for this pay phone on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80333	Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80334	I want to correct two incorrect allegations. In particular, the claim that international circumstances were different in 2003 and 2006 as an argument that a decision to activate with a delay from the year was not correct. Today, Croatia is a candidate country, and in 2003 it was in a very similar, slightly different but similar position. It was ahead of the candidates and was under the same pressure of the European Union as it is today. So don't get away with it. It is also incorrect to interpret the support of the Fisher Cache here in the Parliament as the support of fishermen. You have received the signatures of the head of the Ceha, but you have not received the support of fishermen and especially those fishermen who fish in the area, there are not many in Croatia, where one Croatian fish is going to 5 Italian fishermen and who say that in a year, two or three there will be no fish for either Croatian or Italian fishermen and therefore it is important to activate and protect the Adriatic immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80335	The Honorable Vice-President of the House, president of the HDZ Club on behalf of Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80336	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The higher the noise, the less convincing it is. My first sentence is that. If Mr. Cain says it vigorously, he needs to take responsibility and has announced that he will be vigorously restrained. Here, it's already that energy and...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80337	Not with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80338	... I suggest we bring this debate down to the subject of the proposed documents in order to bring it to an end. None of the opposition nor of the position questioned the right of the Republic of Croatia to declare an economic belt, anything arising from the resolution, or from the Convention on the Law of the Sea. Well, even here today in any debate no one has questioned that, we have that right. Did someone say we don't have that right? It's not. So we do. ... Did anyone give you a word to interrupt me? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, you can go on TV when I'm not here, but not here. Therefore, it is not at all a debate on the law of the Republic of Croatia that, under the Convention on the Law, it must be declared by other countries as well. I would have dared to claim that it was time for a declaration in my opinion since the 98th time we circled our state territory, we came to our borders. So then it could be declared in 1998, 9, 2000, 2001, until today. And everyone who could, who didn't, is not guilty, but needs to explain why they didn't, right? I believe that there was a time when it was far easier to do without some consequences as others did, however they did not. Someone was justifying themselves because we might become candidates for negotiations and not, and today we say that we have become candidates to join the European Union, and we think that now is not exactly the time to show some exclusive moves and to make some exclusive moves. Especially since, in some ways, the first sentence of the European Union is "you have the right to declare". So, the European Union doesn't dispute that either, does it? You have the right to declare, and then the second sentence says, "We advise you not to do it unilaterally." That's also their opinion. Now, the protection of the Adriatic. I think that the other day we heard a good proposal from the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Stjepan Mesic, to hold a conference on the Adriatic of all those interested in the Adriatic, which gravitate the Adriatic, i.e. on the Adriatic Sea and the Sea. This is one need, it was expressed especially at that meeting with the Prime Minister and by the President of IDS, Mr Jakovic, to discuss all aspects, about all aspects that can affect both economic and environmental problems related to the use of the Adriatic Sea. That is why I think that we should go in this direction and support on behalf of the HDZ Club the proposal of Mr Lesar to continue this year, despite what is provided for in certain paragraphs of this budget for the construction of the fleet and I don't know, the processing of fish, fishing ports, majors, coast guard and all that makes one complex of this problem, that if possible in the rebalancing of the state budget for this year, when it comes to these Parliaments, it proposes additional funds if possible for these needs. It's the real thing that we can do because our fleet that exists now cannot compete better equipped, more organised and more modern fleet that our neighbours, especially Italy, have. So a unilaterally possible declaration is possible. I can, what can happen if we unilaterally declare it? None of these countries, especially these two, will slow Croatia's talks and negotiations with the European Union by calling for what we have declared if we declare it. They will not call for this, because we have the right to declare but for some other reasons they will call for likely to slow down the dynamics of our negotiations with the European Union, and we are real political people when we have to take into account what may not be based on some legal basis, but in the process of talks, it can make Croatia's talks more successful, both by dynamics and by quality of accession, or membership in the European Union. So they wouldn't have called on ZERP, they'd be round in other ways likely to slow down those negotiations of ours. That's my opinion. I can't prove anything. I can only think like that. But I'm asking, is that thinking real or not? For years and decades, the so-called the fishing war of a stronger or weaker intensity around Norway, and the end of Norway towards the North Sea, Scotland, the right to fish out other European Union countries in that area and one of the reasons why Norway is not a member of the European Union is the issue, along with the others it has. What can we do? In my opinion, we can declare the ecological belt Mr. Tadic spoke before 1.1.2008, so before and before, we can do anything sooner, because it is the latest date, but in particular we can declare the ecological belt sooner than fishing and this part which can be realistic. And now, without contesting anyone's right to call on Croatia's law based on the Convention on the Law of the Sea, I call on representatives of the Croatian Parliament to do what we can at this moment without harm, great damage to Croatia and to continue the dynamics and quality of talks with the European Union on Croatia's accession, and also to protect our fishermen as far as possible, to equalise their rights as proposed by this second measure, and to make it the most important to promote the renewal and modernisation of Croatia's fishing fleet, the processing of fish, the construction of fishing ports, the construction of small-scales, training and the possible better operation of the Coast Guard for this year, the two or three that are still ahead of us on these negotiations, as a fleet, as a country capable of being competitive in the frameworks of the European Union tomorrow and on this plan. That's why I'm asking and I'm suggesting, and everyone is, I can see that the trade unions are fishermen, too. They agreed on this, given all the circumstances to ignore some extreme attitudes that may not be extreme in their essence, but in the context of these discussions that we see here, we are leading in some way beyond some of our real possibilities, to agree on this and to accept these two decisions proposed by the government and thus to conclude this session before Christmas, and a year is not such a long period and that some dramatic changes on the Adriatic could happen. What certainly stands is the ecological protection of the Adriatic that cannot wait for one day, so to speak, because it is a constant danger especially when it comes to these oil transports, etc. where we are exposed to constant threats. I think that in due course we can declare a complete ecological belt and take that problem off the agenda long before we could possibly wait another year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80339	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80340	I'm correcting the quote, he says it's not time for exclusive moves. Well, that's not true, because when it comes to the protection of national interest, then every time it is for exclusive moves, and as I thought, Prime Minister Sanader in 2003 as an opposition representative, I quote him: "EU policy must be brought into line with the UN Convention and Policy, and not vice versa, and by 2007, those who fear that the EU will shut the door for this or that reason will still be a thousand conditions that Croatia will have to meet whenever they want to say that about any of the banal things, they will put it on us and we will forever go and run for someone's terms." I also agree with that opinion today, but it is obvious from 2003 to today that Prime Minister Sanader has been bitten by a camel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80341	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80342	Thank you. Dear counterpart Begic said that the economic belt, i.e. ZERP, could be declared 98th, 99th etc. But now it's not the time, and he's wondering what might happen if we unilaterally declare the belt. I believe that this is not true and that this is contrary to the reasoning of Prime Minister Sanader himself, who, explaining this legislative proposal, said: "A year begins to agree with interested countries, and if not this ZERP, our proposal, automatically performs 1.1.2008. "years." And I'd like an explanation now if possible. So does that mean automation...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80343	Explanations not within this institute. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80344	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the House Mr. Bebic, in the explanation of the HDZ Club, stated the reasoning behind HDZ, why Croatia must not declare now a protected ecological fishing belt, said that Slovenia and Italy will call for some other reasons, so some other reasons that can slow our approach to the European Union and weaken our negotiating position and that real politicians, political people must respect these reasons. Look, this claim is completely incorrect and untrustworthy because just as counterpart Bebic said: "By declaring this belt, we will be more respected as a state, we will have a stronger negotiating position with Italy regarding the further use of our part of the sea, and this was held at Parliament's meeting on 3.10.2003. "years."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80345	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80346	counterpart Bebic says the quality of negotiations with the Union will be... If we don't do what the HSP is looking for. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] However, we believe that quality will be greater if the economic belt is declared because it will then be a fact in the fisheries negotiations, but we ladies and gentlemen are not negotiating the ecological part. It is truly bizarre that the Croatian government is delaying the application of the ecological part of the economic belt to negotiate the fishing area, so this is what is completely unusual, and all of what you say are actually said by Barroso, Olli Rehn and... There is not a single European document that explicitly defends Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80347	Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable representative on behalf of the club made a claim that is illogical completely and incorrect. Allow me. counterpart Bebic said there is no pressure on Croatia if it would immediately introduce the application of ZERP because EU member states claim that Croatia has the right to do so. He said right behind that, but there are other questions waiting for us to disable our policy, which means there's no pressure, but there's pressure. Does this mean, then, that only Croatia's policy service ensures Croatia's position in the European Union? If this is your claim, then the legitimacy of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union is very bad, then it is very important to introduce ZERP immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80349	Comrade Leko, for God's sakes, don't you see, we've all heard about what Mr. Vice President said he thinks there's no evidence for his own thesis that there may be other reasons to be called on to prevent and block. Then don't correct any hunches and thoughts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80350	No, that's what Mr. President said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80351	It's clear everything you've said, but this is not a correction to an incorrect quote. SDP's club, the esteemed representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80352	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. Today in the Parliament, we are again discussing a protected ecological-fishing belt on our half of the Adriatic. For the third time. In all the discussions so far, the SDP has had and has now clear and unchanged views that ZERP should be applied to all countries equally as soon as possible. Our views are based on the views and interests of Croatian fishermen and Croatian national interests of integrated protection of the Adriatic. In defence of these interests, the SDP is not ready to change its political positions. For us, the full application of the ZERP is a sovereign decision made by Croatia under international law, which is not covered by the common acquis of the European Union. Unlike us, HDZ has already changed its views on ZERP for the third time. First, in October 2003, it argues that ZERP is not sufficient to protect fishing and environmental interests and that an economic belt should be declared immediately, then gives a discount to the European Union in June 2004 and suspends the application of the ZERP to members of the European Union for which it did not have an international and legal basis. He has now come before the Parliament with a seemingly protective attitude towards fishermen proposing the activation of the ZERP for members of the European Union, but with one-year delay. So HDZ and Prime Minister Sanader actually made a triple salto in ZERP issues, but they technically and stylishly carried it out so badly that they eventually slapped their backs on water and scared both fish and fishermen. The original decision to declare the ZERP was made by the Croatian Parliament in October 2003 on a proposal from the former coalition government. ZERP has activated the fishing and ecological component of the economic belt, which was undoubtedly based on international law. The application of ZERP was launched in October 2004. Such a decision was a good political and diplomatic balance between necessity and protection of fishing and national interests and non-fraction with the European Union at the time when the European Union's opinion on our application for membership was expected. In that one-year decision, we also gave the new government the opportunity to create conditions for the real application of the ZERP which it did not take advantage of. Today the decision would have expired long ago, the one-year delay would have expired long ago, and there would have been no more need to open the hips on this issue. Regardless of criticism that the decision to declare ZERP was made too late, the real truth is that it was made in time because it was recognised as a precedent supporting the decisions of the 2003 Venice Conference on how to further declare the economic belts and the ZERP in the Mediterranean. It is therefore not the real question why the former coalition government made the decision to declare ZERP only at the end of its term of office, but the real question is why the HDZ Government did not declare an economic belt during the 1990s, especially in the late 1990s, then it would certainly not be brought into the context of relations with the European Union. Under pressure from Brussels, the HDZ Government in June 2004 changes its position on the ZERP and proposes, and by majority vote, the parliament makes a decision that ceases to apply to the Member States of the European Union until a partnership and fisheries agreement is concluded. The example of Italian and Slovenian fishing vessels can be freely fished in our area of ZERP without the possibility of supervision by Croatian inspections and without the obligation to comply with Croatian fishing rules, while our fishermen are so discriminated against because all Croatian rules on fishing apply to them in ZERP. For them, this discrimination can only be done by declaring the application of the ZERP and the members of the European Union, and not only by partial or general amendments to our fishing rules. For ZERP's suspension, the Government then argued that it was not proposed for pressure from Brussels but rather as a preventive measure preventing a possible negative consequence of obtaining candidate status in the European Union. The SDP voted against making such a decision. In October of this year, HDZ re-changes its position on ZERP, puts itself as a leader in the protection of national interests and seeks the political consensus of all parties for the urgent activation of the ZERP for members of the European Union. Another thinks he's gonna get a round of applause to put out the fire that set himself on fire. Doubting the SDP and HSS government's intentions, they then send their proposal to the parliamentary procedure for a decision on the current activation of the ZERP for members of the European Union that is still in the process. In this regard, we have pointed out that the government should now move decisively towards the diplomatic conviction of the European Union because there are two good reasons why this move should be taken and that is the fact that the fisheries partnership agreement will not be signed. And that other fact of the simple declaration of the ecological zones of Italy and Slovenia. However, a triple change in HDZ's position on ZERP today is a major problem for confidence in the government's next moves. It has lost credibility both in front of the European Union and in front of fishermen and in front of the Croatian public, and there is insufficient assurance in the defence of our ZERP activation arguments for members of the European Union. And so he is ready to trust the prime minister when he claims that this government decision, this proposal that is before us once and for all, will address the ZERP issue and that there will be no new changes to that regime when it is denied by HDZ's practice of permanent, at least double changes to the laws already passed, including those on ZERP. To make the matter even worse, Prime Minister Sanader does not lose credibility in the ZERP issues but also loses the necessary calm in relations with the European Union. Inappropriate and irresponsible public communication with the head of the European Commission delegation in Croatia, he is accused of disclosing and misrepresenting the harmonised 2004 minutes. This shifting its responsibilities to others and drawing attention from its obvious political and diplomatic failures, the prime minister is jeopardising the overall atmosphere of partnership relations with the European Union and thus weakens our negotiating positions in accession negotiations. Unfortunately, it is expected that in predictable attempts to calm tensions in relations with the European Union, the prime minister will now be even more prone to discounts on European Union issues. For the SDP, the activation of the ZERP for all countries is necessary but not a sufficient move. We ask the Government to finally start doing what it hasn't done for three years, which is to enable our fishermen to actually use a fishing belt outside the territorial sea and to ensure supervision that will guarantee that foreign fishermen will not fish out more than the concession quotas obtained. These three lost years, no one can and no one will forget and forgive this government. In order to achieve this, however, the SDP is now asking the Government to immediately establish a full fisheries development strategy, to amend and adapt the fisheries regulation, to implement the fishing fleet recovery programme, to build fishing ports, refrigerants and fish markets, to propose a fish market law and to adopt specific measures to protect and restore the fish fund. This applies equally to the need to define proposals and regulations to improve the ecological protection of the Adriatic. In addition, the Government must implement or better say it has already had to carry out the rapid and effective training of all necessary state inspection and protection services that will be able to ensure the implementation and control of and the fishing and ecological components of the ZERP. Unfortunately, in the state budget for this year, for 2007, we did not notice that for this request the programme implemented and the control of the ZERP provided sufficient resources. At this rate of fisheries reform, this rate of restoration of the fishing fleet's first results could not be expected for ten years. And here, after all, the Government today proposes that the Croatian Parliament make a decision that would begin to apply to the members of the European Union but since 1 January 2008. It also says that fishermen agree and that it will not be opposed by Adriatic neighbours from the European Union. So the seemingly winning combination the government wants to further strengthen by seeking political consensus on this proposal. In the SDP, we've considered such a delicate situation. We are aware that it is an attempt to reconcile to the greatest extent possible two national interests, the national interest in the protection of fishermen and the Adriatic and the national interest of non-hazarding accession negotiations with the European Union, which we certainly support. However, we are in no doubt convinced that just like this and only such a proposal sent by the government can best reconcile these two interests. We are certain that we can offer a better solution than the Government's proposal. This attitude is based on three fundamental facts. First, a one-year delay in the full application of ZERP is a proposal imposed as a consequence of the inconsistencies, variable and unpredictable relationship between the HDZ and the ZERP. Such an unprincipled relationship is further worsened by further government diplomatic failures and by inappropriately making a promise to the members of the European Union in June 2004. The prime minister now insists that the agreed minutes signed at the time by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs of Croatia, Italy and Slovenia and as a witness to the High Commissioner of the European Commission do not, in its form, constitute an international legal obligation. However, there remains a fact that the European Commission will certainly not deviate from that agreed record as an international political commitment that Croatia must adhere to. The agreed minutes are not only a sure content of the parliamentary decision on the ZERP suspension for the European Union as the prime minister assures us, but also a paragraph in which the Croatian Government or Croatian writes confirms that the ZERP regime for members of the European Union will not be changed in the future. Such confirmation could only be brought by the Croatian Parliament that something in the future would not change from its jurisdiction. The team, the government, illegally took over the parliament's powers and limited the possibility and the right of the parliament to change its decisions according to the legislative sovereignty. Secondly, the government is now telling us that fishermen accept its proposal to further postpone the application of ZERP to members of the Union. So what fishermen in their pragmatism could do than say, better than nothing or give, what you give. This is the only thing left for them after the government has completely ruined its prospects for the immediate application of the ZERP to members of the Union by its extremely wrong appointments according to the requirements of Rome, Ljubljana. And now that fishermen and no other choice, the government presents them as crown proof that one-year delay is an excellent solution that everyone else needs to agree on. And thirdly, with all this and on top of all this, the Government is publicizing optimistic but nothing supported claims that its proposal for a one-year delay alone has the support of Europe, Italy, Slovenia. By the way, it assures the public that any shorter delay would lead to an automatic interruption of accession negotiations with the European Union. We do not see, however, any guarantees that this Government proposal will indeed come to an understanding of Italy and especially not of Slovenia, and that Brussels will also consider it a harmonised and not a simple change of the ZERP regime to be a member of the Union. And considering all this, it is not easy for the SDP to find enough good reasons to give up its joint proposal for a decision with the HSS, which is again said here in the procedure, which we ask that ZERP be applied immediately, without further delay, to members of the European Union. If the Government continues to defend our positions so defensively, then the risks for the successful protection of the national interest in maintaining the negotiating process with the European Union are equally high and in the variant of the declaration of a one-year decision and in the variant of the current activation of the ZERP. But everything despite the SDP wants to be a constructive and responsible opposition. We have estimated that the government's proposal is going but unfortunately still insufficiently in the direction of our proposal to activate the ZERP currently for all countries. We also respected the fishing agreement even if it was extorted. That is why we have defined the last line of a possible solution to activate the ZERP to the members of the Union. We are going with an amendment requesting that the ecological component of ZERP be applied immediately to all members and that its fishing component be applied to members of the European Union no later than 1 July 2007. The difference may be made by small bids, but for us it is of special political and implementation importance. By accepting the postponement until after the parliamentary elections, we would enter into a post-election vacuum, during which neither the Parliament nor the Government would most likely begin to function normally and it is expected that the members of the European Union would expect to step up the pressures on Croatia and our negotiating process at the moment of the actual activation of ZERP, despite the fact that our ability to make effective political and diplomatic reactions would be completely reduced and weakened or truly non-existent. In the absence of speculation whether this difficult after-election issue will have to deal with a new or old coalition in principle, it is not acceptable for one government to transfer its responsibility over a period of time after its term of office during a period of uncertainty, especially when the government has created problems that are now meant to be solved by someone else. The SDP is neither a school union nor any other association so that it is easy to agree to the government's behaviour on the principle of "holds water until the masters leave". That is why it is politically and nationalally responsible that this government is calling for the start of the full application of ZERP during its regular term of office so that it has time before the elections to deal with the problems encountered in its mandate. Our proposal gives the government enough time to organise and speed up all preparations in Croatia for real implementation and surveillance of ZERP as well as for talks and negotiations with the European Union, and we expect the government to be diplomatically and negotiatingly successful. Finally, the SDP will only vote for that government's decision, which would include our amendment and otherwise, the government can, without our consent and without just the necessary political consensus, provide enough time for its proposal. We invite all clubs and government to accept our amendment in order to work together how much repair we didn't even need to spoil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80353	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80354	Thank you, Mr. President. It's unusual for me that my dear colleague Mimica ended up in the last paragraph saying that it was in principle unwarranted that one government would then leave to implement another government because that was exactly what happened in 2003 when the ruling coalition then made a reasoned decision and it's completely incorrect that it was taken in the spirit of the Venice Conference exactly the opposite and it's extremely cynical of Mr Mimica to justify why right now, so we all know why it is now, for the sake of the election. But it's cynical to say then why it hasn't been brought back in the 1990s. Well, my colleague Mimica, as well as a good part of us, we all know here that in the 1990s there were some other priorities and that we shouldn't have made the same boundaries in the West as they were in the east. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80355	Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80356	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Once again, by reference to the minutes made public since 4 June 2004, I repeat that it has informed itself of the sovereign decision of the Croatian Parliament which has decided not to apply the ZERP until the conclusion of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement. And it is said that during that period there will be no change. However, as the circumstances have changed, that the Partnership and Fisheries Agreement will not be concluded since Croatia will soon enter into negotiations on Chapter 13 of the fisheries sector, there is also a need to modify the parliamentary decision on the implementation of the ZERP. There is a principled HDZ without referring to the 2003 arguments when I repeat, we were in a completely different situation. And certainly, by commenting absolutely not on the fact that the Prime Minister or this Government is not well in charge of negotiations or the process of accession to the European Union, I remind you that during the term of office of this Government, Croatia has received a positive opinion or AVIS of the candidacy, that the negotiations have started, that it has finished screening, that it has transparently closed two chapters in the negotiations and that we will soon start to open negotiations on the fisheries chapter. And the proposal to amend the decision on the implementation of the ZERP which we have tabled before the Croatian Parliament is just protecting national interests as I have pointed out earlier that the interests of fishermen and the fishing industry, as well as the interests of the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80357	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80358	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Minister has incorrectly stated that the agreed minutes contain only statements about what the Croatian Parliament has done, which it has made in its decision. The third paragraph of that agreed minutes reads: "Croatia has confirmed that during that period there will be no change in the existing regime for the Member States of the European Union in the Adriatic Sea area concerned.". So the government has declared not only what it was but also what it will not be, which is the sovereign right of the Parliament. What if we make a decision today on the application of ZERP to the European Union, it will mean that we have changed the regime which, according to this agreed minutes, we have promised not to do, not us, but the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80359	Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80360	The Minister says, "The government is good at conducting negotiations," which I think is completely wrong because citizens might want the government to lead a little worse these negotiations because they ask who knows what your successes will have to pay for. Today by giving up ZERP, yesterday by introducing quotas on sugar exports, tomorrow, who knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80361	It's not wrong. It can be wrong, but it's not wrong. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80362	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! So I want to make it clear here that this decision that the government is proposing is not a delay decision, but it is exactly the opposite, the application of the ZERP by a year at the latest. And it doesn't change this government's attitudes, but as it has been said here, circumstances change, and I'm asking the same question now who defended the former government from declaring ZERP without delay then? And at the end of the term? Who defended it, and why wasn't it declared then? I'll tell you why? Because they didn't do anything at all to get ZERP to declare himself effective. Because the question of ZERP is one complex issue, and it is the fishermen most interested in ZERP who know very well because that ZERP could be activated or that the suspension would be lifted, let's say that now, if we don't play with words, we have to make a whole series of other preconditions so that such a decision can be made so that that decision can take effect. And this very government will make and conclude by the end of its mandate all assumptions that, at the latest, as it writes here, this decision could and will begin to apply, or that the suspension could be lifted to the Member States, and to the Member States of the European Union. You gentlemen have delayed the application of the ZERP decision for a year. But it's not the only example. You're, not so I'm saying, I'm just, so there was the Law on Railways if you remember the same thing with a delay from, I don't know, a year. So it was the Telecommunications Act, and it took a year. So every decision that was to be taken responsibly behind was delayed. Not to say that the Maritime Code as a foundation in this country, which is a maritime country, which was to become "de iura", which is now a maritime country, has not been adopted and so on and so on. And it's not true, Mr. Mimica, that this government has done nothing. That's not true, Mr. Mimica. I will, although it's been said enough already, and I'll say it. This is where the fishing fleet was mentioned. Maybe, I agree, maybe it's a little slow, but it's not slow. Maybe it's slow. But before that, it wasn't any kind of project like that ever. Who defended such a similar project? This is a project where 30% of the state's funds are grants. And 26 ships are being signed because they signed a contract for construction, 7 for reconstruction that program continues. We will strengthen it and the funds are secured. Likewise, fishing ports are one of the problems facing fishermen and fishing ports. Not just ZERP. ZERP is just one of their problems, but it's also fishing ports. The project also goes to the project and you, and the money for it is secured in the state budget in two positions. Two ports, construction of two ports will begin next year. It'll probably be over with the continent further. Another major problem that weighs on fishermen, especially in the summer months of landing, the landing of that fish. When they are not allowed to enter the county ports, it is obvious that the team that manages down there is more convenient to be yachts and so on and so on. There was a law here at the debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports where an obligation is imposed to ensure that every county port has a berth for fishing vessels. There are therefore a whole range of other, other circumstances that are important and that need to be made for the ZERP to be applied. And so, and why no later than a year? Why is this delay? Because this is an appropriate time limit for fishermen, in which fishermen will adapt to new circumstances in the work of tools and equipment. I was in Brela at the Fisherman's Ceh and then there was a clear speech about it and it was sought and thrown to me from the audience: "Tell me when!" So they are interested when? It's clear to them that it doesn't matter if it's tomorrow or if it's possible to be tomorrow, but when? And we heard before clearly from the presentations and from you respected MPs and from my colleagues here and from my colleagues that this deadline has been agreed with them. So it's easy to say and it sounds nice, "Let's activate ZERP tomorrow." That sounds nice, it is nice to hear, however, it is a serious job that requires one application until all interested parties are prepared within the Republic of Croatia, so within the Republic of Croatia all interested parties so that this ZERP can be used properly and that ZERP can be protected. And when it comes to protecting the Adriatic, let me answer that with a few sentences because that was also the point. The fact is also one great expert on ZERP said: the only thing worse than not declaring ZERP is its inability to monitor and control it. And that's a fact. This ZERP, if we declare it, needs to be clearly and controlled. And that's where the big steps were made, I apologize, for the control and for the protection of this ZERP. Not enough yet, as long as it takes, but big moves have been made. At this time ZERP protects 16 ships, ships apologize, 20, 89 ships, 6 aircraft, 4 helicopters, one drone, radar system, automatic ship identification, and so on. And this system is, and this system is being perfected and it is necessary to complete and conclude this until the ZERP is declared. So I allow them to wave their heads, and I allow it to be considered not enough, but I'm just saying that there are all kinds of steps made when it comes to not only fishermen, but when it comes to protecting the Adriatic, I'm not going to talk about a whole series of ratifications and regulations that we've brought about when it comes to protecting the Adriatic. So I repeat what I said before that by the end, by the end of the term of office of this Government at the latest, all other conditions would be met so that indeed the ZERP could start to apply, or that the suspension could also be lifted from the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80363	Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80364	Mr. President, the Honorable Minister has allowed himself to make a statement not to change this government's decision but to change the circumstances. The fact is that, after the decision to postpone the application of the decision to implement ZERP has been adopted by the Croatian Parliament, and not only has the decision changed by giving and signing the minutes it has adopted, I quote: "Croatia has confirmed during that period there will be no change in the existing regime for the existing European Union Member States in the Adriatic Sea area."which is why she entered the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament and should not have signed it, but was solely the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. Because he has the right to change or not change his decision, not the Government. And on this basis, the European Council, the Council of the European Parliament of the European Union under point 38, has taken a position, the European Council notes the Croatian decision not to apply the ZERP in the specific part and adopts the agreement and agreement signed by these three countries. In such a situation, the Croatian Government is now changing this decision and changing its decisions and changing its relations not only with the European Union but also with relations with the Croatian Parliament and in fact slowly leads us all into serious delusions...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80365	Thank you, dear colleague Arlovic. This was an expression of dissension and an assessment of the allegations. And you didn't even call for a correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80366	I've been invited...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80367	You haven't called at all, nor indicated what is the quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80368	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80369	You can't talk while I'm talking. Ms. Zeljka Antunovic, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80370	It is an incorrect allegation that the respected Mr. Minister is not asking fishermen to activate the protection of the Adriatic tomorrow. It is true, Mr. Minister, that fishermen are seeking the protection of the Adriatic from overfishing by Italian fishermen yesterday, not tomorrow. And that is the exact indication to be taken into account when another decision is made to postpone the application of the Adriatic protection system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80371	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80372	... No, someone shut me out. [[Specially enabled.]] My colleague accidentally shut me out, yeah. So it's an incorrect statement from Mr. Minister that he started his exposure that this isn't a decision to postpone. Because in the end, at the end of my presentation, I corrected my incorrect quote by saying, "Why in a year? Why is this delay?". So you yourself finally admitted that it was a delay. What is cynical and inadmissible and what is not true and what is incorrect is what you justify to fishermen and their attitudes. It's something that's even inadmissible. When we know what they want. Minister, you know as well as I do that they are exactly the opposite, in order to introduce it, to introduce it, not to delay it. So don't sell them, you've denied yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80373	Honorable representative Neven Mimica, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80374	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of the distinguished Mr. Minister, whom he claimed I had stated that the government had done nothing for the fishermen. Such a claim, such a statement will not be found in the phonogram. But they will find that the pace of government fishing reforms will not be completed for 10 years, which is not enough after 3 years of rest and only after one year of completion of the reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80375	Dear Representative Zdenko Antešić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80376	Thank you very much. In his statement, Mr. Minister said that ZERP for this government, that ZERP is a serious issue for this government and that serious preparations should be made for its application, referring to coast guard and surveillance issues, fishing fleet, ports, fish stocks, etc. If that were the case, then that would not have been the case for the end of this government's term of office, and for these serious preparations to be discussed only in this pre-election time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80377	Thank you. We'll work clearly by all means we should work without a break. Since we still have two clubs and 20 MPs. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80378	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So as not to get the wrong impression, we are not here today discussing the decision of 2003 and the circumstances under which it was made. Although the notoristic fact is that the legal basis of the current government's proposal is now coming out of the decision since 2003. It's a notorious fact. It must not be criticised because it is precisely this government proposal that stems from that fact. No one bothered the government to find other legal elements of the base and to base proposals on the basis of which it decided to protect the Adriatic Sea 25 thousand square kilometers. That's the facts. We can now talk about them in one way or another. But the topic of today's debate is the debate on the different proposals in which to achieve the activation of the protection of these resources. We have made it very clear about certain facts that are important and that no rhetoric or attempt to avoid criticism that justifiably comes from opposition lines to reduce it. She can't be diminished that way. The rhetoric will not diminish Mr. Minister Calmett's facts. And the facts are very clear. They say that almost all island and coastal countries, including those that are members of the European Union, have their own economic belt or eco-fishing belt. There's over 130 of them. And that's exactly in line with the International Conference, the Convention on the Law of the Sea. The second fact, at this point in the area of ZERP, Italy is fishing about 94% out of the area of ZERP. The rest is about us and Italy. That's right. If at this point it was not possible to apply any fishing law in that area, any environmental law which would allow protection and selection of the possibility of extraction and that is the fact. That we really shouldn't have waited all these years for this part of the Adriatic Sea, which is the most exposed to possible pollution, which is extremely trafficked, to be protected by the very basis of this law. That our neighbours, if we look back at them, have, in this time since 2003, passed their laws that unilaterally governed their relations by the law passed by Italy and the one which also adopted Slovenia unilaterally outside the consultation and that is the fact. But the most important fact lies in the position in which the Republic of Croatia is located today, and this is exactly the negotiating position when the fisheries negotiations begin, and they will most likely begin in January next year. On the basis of which legal elements and standards, with a decision like this which, whether delay is, is not a delay, is in any case not concrete. She's not decoded. It does not legally remove the quality that our negotiators will need. In other words, there will have to be another decision that should time-confirm this decision and that is the greatest lack of this proposal ahead of us, because of course we do not have time for such a thing. Therefore, the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia in the fisheries chapter is very seriously threatened by the fact that the most important argument to seek exceptions in the area of fisheries that are neighbouring countries, which countries we can compare with Malta and others, have succeeded in getting and putting aside, through such a decision that the Government has proposed today, we cannot apply satisfactorily. Why we felt and why we think it is better, that it is more important and that it will be more effective for all of us that this decision is not time-set by the end or by the beginning of 2008 than to declare it now and today. Because very often, and we are witnesses in this particular topic, so we are waiting to discuss how many, two years, almost two years to discuss the proposals of individual representatives' clubs on this important issue. I'm not particularly convinced that practice will change. If the practice continues in this timetable in time, then it would mean that somewhere in 2008 we will be ready for a more quality follow-up debate on this subject, then we will probably have some other circumstances, but in a better position we will not be ourselves, or fishermen, or that fishing belt that stretches to 25 thousand meters, kilometers square. Therefore, if it is practical to judge it is not good. This is why it is very important, and it is precisely aware that we do not want to make a decision that would be contrary to practice in the European Union, so that it is opposed to any international agreements we have signed, of course since 4 October 2004 I do not hold to a serious agreement. That's what I said, whispering that doesn't make an argument. Therefore, if we ignore it, there is not a single document that the European Commission has sent to the Republic of Croatia in any form in terms of showing dissatisfaction with regard to the activation of the ZERP and towards the members of the European Union. We don't have that kind of document. Everyone who spoke said there's no pressure that forbids it. It would be good, it would be worth it, it would be politically wise if there were such reasons that we all knew them together, that we could all try to make a deal together. But there's no sign of that. So we will continue to remain in that position that we initially said, we expect a consensus if we all agree together to declare an eco-fishing belt today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80379	On behalf of HSP Proposer, Honored Representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80380	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State and everyone else. Minister Grabar Kitarovic here said, among other things, that in 2003 we were in a completely different situation than we were before. Indeed, he's absolutely right. In 2001, when the HSP club submitted a proposal on the declaration of the economic belt, Minister Grabar Kitarovic and her party warmly supported the proposal, and then in 2003 we found ourselves in a completely different situation. The question arises in which other situation is entirely different. What happened between 2001 and 2003 was that we found ourselves in a completely different situation. I do not know that anything significant happened in this problem from 2001 to 2003 except for one thing, which is that in 2003 the time for ZERP to come into effect. It's the only thing that's changed. Meanwhile, various arrangements were likely to take place, different promises. What came after that in 2003 when the parliament's decision, namely on a proposal from the HDZ government and adopted by the HDZ majority decision, was delayed application and the existing ZERP, and something happened in the meantime. I'm guessing some kind of deal, some kind of promise, whether it's the gentleman's deal or whatever. But we have absolutely nothing from the documents that would lead us to some completely different situation, as the minister claims. What happened in 2004 was actually just moving the date from that decision to apply the ZERP, nothing else. In 2004, that date went away, it disappeared. And what's going on today? Today we're just returning that date back. We're re-announced some date and we don't have any guarantees but absolutely no guarantees when that date comes that it won't be removed again. Depending, of course, on whether the fisheries negotiations will begin in the meantime, let alone end. So, said Minister Calmeta, it's not this, we're not discussing today, he says, it's not this decision to postpone. Indeed, he's right, this isn't a decision to postpone. This is a decision to confirm the delay we already have. We've already made a decision on the delay, and now we're only discussing today to confirm it and re-establish the date as it was three years ago. It is not in its reasoning back then in 2004, when HDZ voted in this House for a postponement decision was not stated in an explanation that there were some arrangements. With who and about what? Are there agreements with the European Council, is there an agreement with the European Commission or perhaps some kind of gentlemen agreement? However, in any case, a question is raised for us as promoters and for the entire Croatian public that we, ladies and gentlemen, have actually come from 2001 to today from the topic of international law on policy. What actually happened in the meantime is that we are from an international unequivocal right to declare an economic belt and one-sided, I repeat here unilaterally, and because another way, but it does not exist but unilaterally. In international maritime law, there is no way of declaring an economic belt that is multilateral. There's only one-sided and all the countries that have declared it so far, they've declared it one-sided. And what Finland declared its economic belt last year is also one-sided. She did not consult anyone at the time of her Presidency of the European Union. So let's take this syntagma off the agenda in ours and say it unilaterally because it's different from one-sided and it doesn't exist. You don't need to speak unilaterally. It's our decision. Of course she's one-sided because international law doesn't know any different. But you know what's one-sided and where the word "one-sided" might be used? This decision to postpone the ZERP is unilateral. That's one-sided. It is a decision that is not based on international law and is politically unilateral. Only we declare our ecological, or protected ecological and fishing zone or economic belt or anything else, are we, in the whole world, unilaterally delaying the decision we have made. That's one-sided. Minister Kalmeta also said, the only thing worse than not declaring ZERP is its non-implementation. Great logic. Indeed. I'm asking this question then to this government what, then what about the Law on the Control of Genetically Modified Organs? It is impossible to implement it, not implement it, we still send it out when it comes to determining the amount of genetically modified, well correct it, you tell me which laboratory does it and then let this laboratory confirm to the public of Croatia that it is able to do it, determine the contents of a genetically modified organism in a product. In other words, the content of a product produced by a genetically modified organism in a product. For example, let's say growth hormone in food for milk cows, how many growth hormones are produced from genetically modified bacteria. What laboratory in Croatia will determine that? And yet, even though we can't implement this law, and we can't implement it, it's enough to just walk around these "Pionir" fields of corn and everything else that comes to us and seeds that come to Croatia, and who controls it and how. Or if what Minister Kalmeta says is really true is that it is only worse than not declaring ZERP that it is only worse not to implement it, then I really don't know what is going on with Slovenia that has declared its economic belt, and it is to all of us, I guess it can implement that law because Slovenia is a famous naval force for all in the world by its navy and the coast guard that it is very effectively able to implement. But they still passed the law, they don't realize it's worse if they can't implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80381	Thank you. The HSLS Club, the esteemed representative, Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80382	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. In these last five years, we have put many belts around this country and around us. We can say that we've risked our hips with both economical and ecological, both with both fishing and eco-fishing, and with an ecological one that we're postponing, and with the fishing that we're postponing and the organic one that we're postponing for seven months, and ZERP for a year. We were afraid, therefore, with different belts but everything seems to me that unfortunately our pants and pants are still falling. And despite the fact that we're showing our muscles, it seems like those muscles that are holding our belts really aren't strong enough, that our musculature and that our more and more of our own pants and pants are slipping towards our knees. And that's what's not good, so sometimes it seems to me and that we're pulling each other a little bit, trying to get naked in some way. When we're in opposition, then we're taking a position even though we were actually representing the same attitudes or even worse when we were in position. So when we move from opposition to position, then we change our attitudes again. It seems to me that there is indeed one single private undressing and changing that confuses our citizens, who have also confused the fishermen themselves at the end, which reduces the credibility of Croatian politics. I'd say maybe you can figure it out in a country where there's really a lot of conversional and pervertite statements and behaviors, something like that. I think that the Croatian Parliament must be ladies and gentlemen above the interest of the narrow party who are disguised in position and above the interest of the narrow party and coalitions who are entrenched in the opposition routine. And the opposition is obliged to run national policy, state policy in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of whether it was a position before that, and the position is equally required to listen to the opposition when it comes to important national or if you want civil topics. This is how it seems to me like we're really on some big maneuvering battlefield changing ambushes, waiting for each other in an ambush, actually we're all trapped together by our own unbelief. We're taking these belts, it looks like you know we have a dozen belts on us and we're actually putting off their application all the time, or it's like I'm trying to put my belt around my pants right now, but I'm not really buttoning it up. So that it won't be on that Radic button or we'll unbutton the light and we'll button it up, we'll unbutton the belt. The question is, of course, what are we actually buying with these constant delays? Are we buying time? If we're buying time, then I think we're working and playing tough work, because the time is unfortunately for us ladies and gentlemen from '93, from 2003 to today is not just an ally. The time for our citizens is the time for our Croatian angry enemy. We do not have time to reach European standards in not primarily the standards of general, political, democratic but the standards that our citizens feel every day on their own skin. Our time is an angry enemy. Buying time with a year, two years, six months or seven months delay, and then rescheduling the delay I think it's unserious, I think it shows that we haven't realized that time has to be an ally. But in this insufferable ease of distance, in that kind of unbearable ease of delay, we always think that something will change over time. Do we maybe buy favors? Now do we want to spend a year trying to gain someone's favor? Get someone's trust back? I assure you we won't do it for a delay because old sophistical wood... The potentials of the CD are general law, respect the more powerful and stronger I think it's something we must never accept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Regularity in international terms cannot be a sophistical benefit of greater and more powerful. If we become or want to become a negotiation process, part of equal communities, equal peoples of the international community, then we must certainly show that we are responsible and serious and not constantly delaying ourselves. When we passed the law in 2003, when we spoke here in the Assembly, we at HSLS said that instead of exclusively an economic belt that is an international legal institute, which is regulated by international conventions, for which there is a way to resolve possible conflicts between countries. We are adopting something called an ecological fishing belt which is actually an out-of-date international institute and for which at least we have accepted it and may be subsuming 90 or 95% of what is exclusively an economic belt, except maybe artificial islands that are not yet present but still, if conflict occurs, there is usually no permanent conflict resolution mechanisms. It only has an economic belt. Instead of trying again now because Croatia's position thanks to this government, we have to admit it is strengthened, because we are a candidate country and we are negotiating more or less successfully, we are now re-establishing an ecological-fishing belt which is some sort of strange beak, some sort of hier, something that we can simply replace or we could replace with an ecological zone, an exclusive economic belt, and in this way also possible conflicts that are likely to come undermining or demand an obvious and request resolution in an international convention established way. So I don't think we should have done what we do today. If we take into account the fact that not only in this area but also in so many other areas when it comes to belts, zones or different areas, we are not sovereign or we do not know how to impose our sovereignty. So we're still discussing whose DTK network, please nice, that may be going under our feet, that goes under the sidewalk we're walking under. We discuss this in a sovereign state. We have a maritime good that we haven't used in a single integrated, strategic, whole way for 15 years, but we're a little draughty, we build a little bit, we give a little to the hotels, we give a little to the camps, we take a little back, we give a little to the concession. We didn't even put that under our economic sovereignty, no. I don't mean political and legal now. So one responsible state would certainly have taken care of it in 15 years to know whose cables are above or below the ground on which the citizens are walking. A responsible state would bring about a maritime good strategy within 15 years. One responsible state cannot constantly delay something that is strategic, which is God’s day, which is a natural resource, which is one of the most beautiful places that even the sea exists. Therefore, it is our responsibility to finally make that decision. We are aware of HSLS precisely because of what I used to say that we are neither ready to use maritime good nor different other infrastructure and municipal goods, we are aware that we cannot protect and effectively monitor the ecological and fishing belt from 1.1. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not fool ourselves. We have four kind of fast patrol boats in Croatia. Four, police. One is probably called "Swift", the other is called "Hurry", the third is called "Hurry", and the fourth is "Flytney". Therefore, we cannot, with four such fast police patronal boats without a tip system, which is the most important, without modern forms of satellite and other navigational monitoring, without coastal guards, without the good coordination of the organisation of the MUP, Croatian military, various other associations, so if you want to and from the civil associations of local self-government, we cannot implement such a thing. If today we want to tell the citizens that we can do this, then I say responsibly that we are inventing and exaggerating, but we can and must set up such an organisational structure within 7 months, thus setting up all the services, and co-ordinate each other so that we can really effectively monitor the implementation of the eco-fishing belt. And that is why our amendment will say that since the 1.7th application of the Eco-fishing Belt, in the meantime, the establishment of an inter-sectoral, inter-party committee that will monitor the preparation for implementation and report to the Parliament on this, I think it is a more responsive issue to put only the ministries that will therefore monitor how we prepare for effective monitoring of the application of the eco-fishing belt. I think that we would actually come up with something called compromise, a modus vivendi between demands to declare immediately, although we are not ready and we are not ready to respond or the government's assertions and the government's proposal to declare only 1 or at the latest by 1.1.2008. I think a sovereign, serious, well-assembled state, a well-organized state must have the strength to apply something like that in seven months.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80383	Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80384	Mr. President, I think you should warn him, I'm correcting this incorrect allegation: "We are constantly girding our seat belts, and our pants are falling." Otherwise, his entire discussion was extremely vulgar and beyond the context we are discussing. However, in the aesthetics of rhetoric, we must at least keep a minimum of self-respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80385	It's not a correction of an incorrect quote, it's a style exercise, a style assessment of style, and it doesn't fall into an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80386	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I promised my colleague Radina I'd speak briefly and I'll try to listen to him. First of all, as you can see when you have a sea, when you don't have a sea, it's no good. Hungary is probably in a more favourable situation today than we are because there is no sea and there is no problem with it, and we have a sea, and then we have trouble with it and with that. It seems to me that these few years of debate in the Parliament and outside of the ZERP Parliament has actually gotten pretty far from what is a real issue of our sea and that we have actually been not discussing fishing for quite a long time, but we are actually in the area of political fishing. It is a kind of what the English call political fishing, and it is not in the right sense that the issue of fishing fishing or really serious work on environmental issues about the situation in the Adriatic. Dr. Crescent. Tadic is here, which is certainly the champion and protected eco-fishing belt and economic belt, only for a moment has shown some of the satellite maps, and it would be good if we were representatives, so probably the public to know what the state of the ecological and our part of the Adriatic and the Italian part of the Adriatic looks like, so we really know what we're discussing, because I think of what little I'm familiar with and what I could see has long gone into that area that's going to light me up in 10 minutes or 15 as much as it means in red. The same applies naturally to the state of the fish fund in both our part of the Adriatic and the Italian part of the Adriatic. If you compare it to what was done in '48. The year as an evaluation of the fish fund and with what today, or early 90s, was done in terms of the state of the fish fund, we'll actually see that we're fat in red. For this reason, it seems to me that this problem should be given a significantly different attention, a significantly different approach and that it should be drawn from the sphere of this political fishing. As justified as it may be for transferring responsibility from one round to another, however justified from the point of view of what SDP colleagues are saying, do not leave us with an inheritance of what you should do today, but it seems to me that our public, that the public of the countries with which we are neighbours and that the European public should actually know in what state our sea is in, and in fishing terms, is located. Threatening the blanks, threatening a charge that's empty is politically irresponsible. I'll give you one example. We don't even control our land border in a valid way towards neighbouring countries like this. Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we have much better and more available resources both in terms of people and in terms of techniques than we have when it comes to the sea border. Of course, no one's asking that as a question. On the one hand, many years ago we declared one part of the Croatian area of special state concern. If anyone goes through that area of special state care, then they'll see it looks like an area of special national forgetfulness. Yesterday I was colleagues and colleagues in Clay. Every third house in that beautiful place over 40 km from Zagreb, 50 km from Zagreb, each third house is inhabited. Not empty but each third is inhabited and represents one of the most beautiful pearls of architecture of its time and from the time in which Ban Jelačić led his regiment there and looks worse than it probably looked a hundred years ago. Are we going to pass another kind of law, another kind of act behind which we won't have a state that will be able to run a policy that we commit to such a legal solution? It seems to me that it is said in the folk song: "We wanted to be divided, but we did not have the strength to do so.". And that's all the trouble. Therefore, we from the SDSS will support this proposal of the Government, not easy hands and not an easy heart because what I mentioned and what I only partially know, and I am even more concerned about what I do not know enough about the situation in our sea, concerns and I know that this approach will not solve anything in this regard. But one fact is certain, what Mr. Cain said, what many others said. Just by strengthening my own capacities, what my colleagues from the HNS said. Only by strengthening their own capacities and only more responsibly and in some way with neighbours in line with environmental policy and environmental common measures that they should have with their neighbours, and then probably within the European Union, it is possible to stop this trend and perhaps change it in some sense or possibly improve it in some sense. Such a situation as today unfortunately does not deserve the competition of this species but deserves a significantly different approach and this means that the public really knows what the sea is, how many fish there are in this respect, whether we as a nation that has not yet reached the average amount of fish that European countries have, in fact, managed to get to it with our own fish or that we will have to import fish and that we will have to wait for ours to raise enough farms to be able to eat fish because the state of the fish fund in this respect is absolutely worrying. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, it seems to me that we are not in a position to achieve both things. And declare the belt and strengthen the instruments for its control and strengthen the instruments for what is called sustainable fishing and what is called strengthening the ecological component and it seems to me that, with the advantage of continuing negotiations with the Union, we will need to give priority to this other and we will use negotiations with the Union as a means to strengthen sustainable fisheries and to strengthen the ecological component in the Adriatic, this seems to me to be a closer and more realistic option than this heroism with fear of cartridges in which there is no serious charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80387	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80388	Mr. President! A colleague of Pupovac, it is not true that the area of special state concern or special state interest is an area of forgetfulness. The Republic of Croatia since 1998 and '96 respectively. For years, I'm going to count just one part of what was done in that area. 146 thousand houses, i.e. homes, renovation and new construction of primary schools, secondary schools from infrastructure, roads, electricity, water, reconstruction of sacral monuments, buildings etc. From 1998 to 2006, it is not possible for Croatia to restore the area that has been torn down by large-scale Serbian aggression in this time and situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80389	The second correction by the respected representative, Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80390	A fellow Pupovac says we should agree on measures to protect the Adriatic with its neighbours. Namely, ZERP has already been activated by his colleague, Pupovac, towards Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania. The only problem is that Italy doesn't want us to activate the ZERP and towards them. On the other hand, they make their decision without consulting their neighbours on the ecological part of the Italian economic belt. So on the question whether the state will have the strength to implement this is not the issue of the state's strength but of the government's will and determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80391	Thank you. Now we're done discussing clubs. Now we're going to an individual debate. First respected representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80392	Thank you, Mr. President. So here, after almost five hours of debate involving club representatives, the promoters of one, the other, speak third about the legal aspects and effects of the declaration of the ZERP that or not the right, sovereign law of the state yes or not respecting the provisions of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, it seems to me that it no longer makes sense. Talking about the political aspect is something else. I will honestly tell you as a representative here if you would be my colleagues from HDZ convincing, credible, principled and defending national interests and then when you are in opposition and when you are in power with the same passion, I would be ready today despite my club's position to raise my hand for your proposal. However, in no way can I do that because you are completely untrustworthy to me, you are not principled. In my neighborhood, the people say that you're bending over like a vitreous smoke, and in such politics, I don't want to be involved. And I'm going to try to illustrate that on several examples. When you're in opposition, you organize a Split coast, pick chestnuts, and when you come to power, you hand over generals. I know the generals had to be extradited because innocence can only be proved before The Hague tribunal. And not to mention this case and the example of ZERP where you have not tripled, quadruple or fivefold changed your views since October 2003 when the president of the HDZ... The thesis on the declaration of the economic belt, when it came to some strange beak and then the coalition government made a decision that was only possible under conditions when only the coalition government opened the way to Europe after the isolation we were in until 2000. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Not to mention what "mortale salad" took place in 2004 so I was back in the city of the seamen, in the city of long maritime tradition proud to have been among my fellow sailors in Dubrovnik to celebrate St. Nicholas's Day, where again, the Prime Minister of the Seas has hardly spoken a word but has taken advantage of the opportunity to attack the European Union and its representatives and the attacks on political inexperiences. Once again, 5, 6 days or 8 days after that, the twist on the ZERP, and that is why I stand firmly behind my Club's position, which is that there is no obstacle, and it has never been before, and I think that in the International Community it would be welcomed if we had declared the ecological component of ZERP immediately and without delay. There are no negative effects. I can and there are only positive effects and that is, I would say, "condio sin quo non" if we want to protect the Adriatic, the Croatian part of the Adriatic and the entire Adriatic because the Adriatic is the only integral space that can be protected in an integrated and ruined way can unfortunately be partially destroyed. And as far as this second part of the declaration of the provisions of the fishing band is concerned, it should not be delayed and left as a burden to a future government because in six months, nothing will change significantly, and the capacity of the Government to fight and gain the European Community's approval to declare what we have an unequivocally right in the negotiation process. And you don't need to show one person to your citizens and another person to European countries. There's one more thing I'd like to say is that either one day or sooner or later, there's going to be a ZERP announcement in one version or another. But I assure you that the issue of declaring ZERP and the fishing component of ZERP does not address the issue of marine fisheries, however. First of all, the government does not have a fisheries development strategy rather than economic indicators, and I especially want to point out this because the resolution minister and Mr Katavic are present, and in some ways I address them directly. Instead of developing by, instead of by economic indicators and the assessment of our scientists, we develop at the current requirements of strong lobbies whose only goal is to catch and sell fish and sell as a semi-factory. For example, we export salt fish instead of turning to its processing. The Fisheries Authority has devised a concept of shipbuilding that will hunt with bluefish nets without knowing where that fish will be placed. Construction of boats for catching blue fish after closing fish processing factories and reduced cooling capacity is not the best move. Of the prewar 10 fish processing factories, only 3 or 4 remained in Rovinj, Zadar and Postira. And what about the closure of the Neptune factory in Komiža? The only production plant on Vis and his move to Nis which one is politics? Despite the surprise, all the public responsible in the government have gone over it. Instead of inflationing government programmes to prevent the eviction of islanders, it was worth keeping the fish processing plant on Vis and Sali in the Long Island. For Croatian fisheries, the most appropriate thing would be to build a combination of carts that would be suitable, which would, if necessary, catch small blue fish with floating or white fish with bottom brakes. The Croatian ship unfortunately does not exist in ZERP or is a rare occurrence. Let's imagine. Here are the days of the hunt for the export of tiny blue fish. What do you think for what? What's he doing, moving? No, I don't. The only problem is, the only problem in the Adriatic is according to some of the scientists' estimates, only the deer has 300 thousand tons. According to the same assessment by scientists in the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia up to 12 miles from the total estimated bio-mass of fish we hunt around 20% and in ZERP only about 5% of the estimated amount of bio-mass fish. What more do we hunt when we have nowhere else to place it? What do we actually do with her? And what's hunting for these days? That's exactly why. What do we do? We export semi-factories where others make profits and we destroy our own fish processing industry. And not to mention what fish consumption is average in Croatia and we do nothing in that direction. And time is coming to an end. Especially not to mention the protection of that ecological-fishing belt, the concept of a coast guard that is the way it is in the system of some kind of coordination doesn't give a solution. The formation of a coast guard within the Navy is contrary to the European Community's aspirations and modern movements when it comes to the protection of the Adriatic. Not to mention this proposal to amend the state border regime where we limit our stay to 36 hours. You have in Istria, at this point I can by name and last name count eight ships that are ready for Mediterranean fishing and why these ships make them sail to ZERP for 5 hours, then stay in ZERP for 24 hours and have to return after 5 hours to meet that quota of 36 hours instead of leaving them. They have a big autonomous radius. Let them be there for seven days. And why would they contact customs and police? Why not apply international practice when in the same situations ships should apply to border control only if they enter the territorial sea of another country or in their own territorial sea or in our specific case in the ZERP they come into physical contact with other ships. I think it's totally inappropriate to limit it to 36 hours, and I don't know, I don't completely understand which workshop that proposal came out of. And as for each other, everyone, the sea, no minister of the sea, we have to think about it. We have such a fishing fleet that mostly their sailing categories are... territorial seas should also be amended in this respect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80393	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80394	I would only replicate my fellow Perunsk in one part when he talked about that our fishermen would have the right for three days, 36 hours, pardon 36 hours to stay in ZERP without control, or that within that deadline they had to return. It's about, look, buddy, it's about as valuable a decision as when we made a decision that our warships can control NATO alliance ships in the Atlantic Ocean. It's a decision about these conditions when our fishermen aren't equipped, when they don't, when we don't have coast guard, when there's no condition to control it. It's about the same decision that has the same weight as what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80395	Replica reply, Honored Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80396	Thanks, buddy. You made it possible for me with your replica to state another position for which I failed to state. I couldn't agree more with you. There's about a comparison at a good level. There's something else I want to say. In this proposal to amend the Law on the Crossing of the State Border of Explicate, it is ordered by a foreign ship that it must take the shortest route to the open sea, completely inappropriate, completely inappropriate. I was sailing to Japan. We'd sail from Yokohama to the Indian Ocean and get to the Malay Strait. That's where we docked and waited for a warrant from the boater in which direction we were headed. They'd report to the Coast Guard in the area. It must also be made possible with us. It is not explicit but to say that it is obliged to leave the territorial sea as soon as possible if it does not request and obtain the consent of the coastal state, i.e. Croatian maritime administration. And not that on this negative example that happened in Rush, we are now turning it into a rule and we are making regulations that are completely contrary to international practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80397	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80398	Mr. President, gentlemen from different ministries. I'll actually start where my colleague Pupovac and Cain stopped. I'll support the thesis that was a generous colleague of the Pupovci so the Croats don't know what to do with the sea. But this is a relatively new phenomenon, the phenomenon of the second half of the 20th century. If you go from this high assembly to the working rooms of our president I think the third image on the right wall hangs the famous painting of Antun Ivekovic, the arrival of the Croats to the sea. These are the Croats who came in solemn robes, with swords, some small children, you can see no one can swim, understand the sea and wonder. The painting that was taken during the period of reproductive enthusiasm was the idea of a continental Croat, some kind of modern Cobankovic. The Croats knew what to do with the sea until they were 40. And in that sense, I return to another thesis that is related to the completely false interpretation of the legacy and Joseph Broz Tito of fellow Cain. He said Joseph Broz Tito could have declared ZERP. The fact is that we have the experience of our dear friends and learned colleagues from ZERP who just declared Joseph Quick Tito. Me when I'm '84. The year he first came to Brijuni and I discussed it with Dr. Franjo Tudjman later. I've come to some sort of aquatorial or lagunal paradise on earth. Marshall after a big bombing in '45. The years when the Allies practically destroyed everything that was on Brijuni were in a situation where everything that was in the sea and beneath the sea was killed. It's a very vulnerable sea. Deep 50 meters and he forbade every fish catch there for all of Koji Popovic, himself and the fishermen who hunted for their purposes. When I got there he was the head of the gym, some resident Mr. Radisic, I remember him very well when they ordered him a cappuccino, and the man was still saying, "I understand." And in that sense I'll tell you what it looked like, what that paradise looked like on earth. In the morning, if they woke up about 5, 6 o'clock in the morning, then there'd be a few usually between 5 and 12 octopus who had love games underneath the beach "Hotel Neptune", right of which there were quite a lot of shoes. And the left was one flock of 12 skulls, that was a row size of between 4 and 15 kilograms. They were overstretched as the most experienced Kosovo and communists. There was no theoretical opportunity to catch them on the hook. Now we're going back to the phenomenon of this ZERP. So you should study that tradition, State Secretary. Otherwise, you wouldn't think I was going there to get some kind of coworker, Zgrebec, as some representative of the Central Committee. I organized a postgraduate study of public health organization of the United Nations there. My students were later very prominent Croatian parents during this period. So you study that system. That vulnerable sea was destroyed today. That's where he hunts whatever he wants and whatever he wants. The late dictator, I mean the other Tito, I will no longer make the mistake I've made so far on several occasions, he's made out his residence to show the Italians if they touch the outside that they've touched his cabin. The majority of politicians in Istria today have no consciousness, except for the magnificent Damir Caine, who unfortunately did not get a single medal, and he and his brother were in the Homeland War and often not deserved to receive criticism from the congratulatory HDZ. So what and how you should do for next year. First of all, I would declare 2007 the year of the Adriatic Sea. What does that mean? That would mean holding at least three, four seriously round tables as well as further to the sea. It's not just fish fishing, it's not just archaeological and ecological protection. We need to change our approach to tourism. You do not know, or most do not know, that the Croatian Tourist Board is financed by the number of nights. That should change right away. Because the more nights that less steam, the more feces, the more chemicals, the more accidents, the more aggression towards the Adriatic Sea. It is necessary to determine how to develop Croatian ports. They were developed at the time of the former Yugoslavia as the ports of the former Yugoslavia, scattered cargo, exports, imports, troops and the collapse of the former Yugoslavia destroyed practically Croatian ports. A new historical possibility is emerging today. We're locked up in a region and a wise man when he finds himself in a situation like this is trying to find a positive one. And because of that, in every situation, as Robert Kennedy once said about his brother, he sees a chance in every half a glass, and everyone in half sees only despair, misery and misfortune. And in that sense, in 2001, I think I was asked by the magazine "The Sea" to write a little essay on the Adriatic Sea in the 21st century. I put out a few ideas there, one of them seems very valuable to me today, which is that in Croatia we should cultivate a relationship to the sea that the daggers have, in fact today we should all be silent except the daggers, the Crown, you have been silent, unfortunately, as I have seen today. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But these barely got four or five minutes, Luka Roic. In Croatian consciousness and national, Palagruža should be treated as Slovenians treat Triglav, that every little Croat and Croat have ambition once in their lives to reach Palagruža, touch, listen to the Gego band and return happy from there, to cultivate this relationship of responsibility to the sea. Secondly, we must have a very responsible relationship with the islands and the Adriatic Sea. I'll say it one more time. God sent Minister Marina Matulovic-Dropulic to stop the Spanishisation process or the portualisation of the Adriatic coast. To be clear right now, I've been seeing some cracks in heaven lately, and I can see that not all news is good news coming from that area. In this sense, it is practically not so important that this process will be brought back to life now and again. Then I suggested it, I'll tell you a few ideas. The development of tourism medicine that should have the centre on one of the islands, the development of maritime medicine, the exploration of the island of health in terms of research of public health aspects of diets on islands because the world's longest people are on islands and counterpart Tonci Tadic will know that Japanese live on average three years longer than any resident in this world, and the only risks and factors they have, eat too much salt and reduce salt consumption, would probably not die at all. The problem of establishing how many Croatian vessels should then be addressed. You have the congestion of Croatian cities only by cars. It will happen similarly with the Adriatic Sea. So there's so much to do in this area, I'm sorry of course I have to be, I'm almost sorry to vote against this government decision, for significant reasons I have to do it, but that's what I'm done with. I don't like this singing, and maybe my colleague Ivica Racan will be offended once more. It's very wrong for me, he wanted to give Slovenians 154 km2 of sea in Savudrija Vala with its own air, sea, archaeological findings and gas findings, and don't give God maybe even the gold finds. From that position, it's a matter of basic ethical hygiene to speak a little below the vote. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80399	Thank you. Replica, Honored Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80400	Mr. President. Dear fellow Letica, I use this replica to shed light on another important question together. When it comes to an economic belt or essentially a fishing-environment belt which, unlike the economic belt, still excludes the possibility of only building artificial islands, using sea currents, winds and waves, it should be said that this right does not belong in itself to the state. ... The coastal state has no right to do so until it's declared. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And what's the whole problem? The problem is that the Republic of Croatia has been declared an ecological and fishing belt on the one hand and applying that belt to its fishermen, because this applies to us, to the fishermen of neighbouring countries other than the members of the European Union, has led us to the situation that it has actually discriminated both fishermen and boaters of other neighbouring countries and our fishermen and our sailors, except the European Union, because it has delayed their application, and if it has done so, it has maintained its former status before the declaration, and that status is open sea status. And we practically have a situation that, in fact, by our own decision, we have brought into discrimination the position of our own fishermen and shipowners on the one hand and our own country in relation to the members of the European Union and our legal and legitimate right under the regulations of the European Union has taken steps to remove the discriminatory situation and that is what is very important, which is being debated today in this debate and the issue of misunderstanding. Therefore, it is necessary to make the Republic of Croatia equal to at least Italy, Slovenia, to apply the ecological belt immediately as they have declared it. Then, as soon as it starts to apply the fishing band, and no later than six months, not because it should be because of the members of the European Union but because we would ensure ourselves both materially economically and others to ensure that our own decisions are implemented in our part of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80401	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80402	I thank my fellow vice president of this House of High because he gave me the opportunity to say why I'm sad that I can't vote for the government's decision. Because my ancestors would be angry with me if they knew that I knew that the Slovenians had declared an environmental belt, that the Italians had declared an ecological archaeological belt and that if we were to postpone it, it would be a great insult. And the second element in which the vice president of the House is quite right. When we wrote the Constitution, that's what the President of the High House will know, in the list, I think it's Article 11 or which, already, the natural treasures of the Republic of Croatia, we didn't think of the words "sea". I was personally so ashamed of myself at a working lunch organized by Dr. Tudjman, a fisherman from Nola, Podgora, said the President triba you be a little ashamed that you forgot the sea and President Tudjman gave him a wine, thanked him and so the sea was found in the Croatian Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80403	Yeah, it's a nice story. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80404	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me a few words about this important matter. In this debate on the declaration of a protected ecological fishing band, we heard from government representatives and the parliamentary majority one of the arguments why this bill should be accepted, the position of fishing associations, three of them seem to me. But no one mentioned environmental associations, no one mentioned 20 and several environmental associations that showed their dissatisfaction with this proposal yesterday. All associations dealing with the protection of the Adriatic. Although we are talking here about two components of the fishing and ecological focus of all these discussions and today it confirms it is on this fishing component, and we only mention ecologically as if we forget that the only thing left for Croatia after the sale of the newly created capital in that tycoon privatisation of the 1990s, the only thing left is its natural capital. The forest remains, the agricultural land is the source of drinking water and the rest is thanked to God the Adriatic Sea with the coast. These are the foundations we call them Croatian sovereignty which has not yet been undermined or I believe they are not and will not be. So what do we do now? A few speakers have already said here that we do not know what to do with what is truly sad. Let us then draw the line and say according to all of this we did not behave adequately, but let us now do all we have to do to protect what we have left to protect for the sake of us and the generations that will come so that this declaration, the debate on the declaration of ZERP, can also be interpreted as discussing the protection of the remaining Croatian sovereignty in this case over the sea. I'm sorry to be here in the assembly if this government proposal is as good as we could hear from the foreign minister here why there is no Prime Minister Sanader here. He is gone, as he was not in 2004 when this same problem was discussed. Why? Because he himself knows that this proposal is not good and that, for one reason or another, he has been extorted primarily by one of the government's entrenched policies in these three years, and I am sorry that we haven't made any further efforts to reach some party consensus on this issue where we will all agree that it is an important issue. But we talked about the consensus there, but the real debate on this consensus was never led. I don't know if I understood the representative of the HDZ Club who said that the ecological component should be declared immediately. I don't know if I understand it well, but if I did, then it would be somewhere on this consensual trail, because otherwise this legislative proposal is nothing more than a mere buy of time with the fact that it remains unclear in these discussions whether the declaration of ZERP will follow 1.1.2008 by automating that the prime minister himself said so if the agreements with interested states do not reach, and probably not because I don't see why the Italian lobbys would give up on their rights as they see it, does this mean that the Parliament will not have to discuss this issue again because then in early 2008 ZERP will be declared. In the performances and representatives of the HDZ Club, I am a little confused in this thinking and in what the prime minister himself said. Also, the mere argument that this beginning of a year is necessary to prepare means the achievement of those advances that should have been made is the question and what is the government that is otherwise, which otherwise boasts that it has done Croatia in these 3 years in connection with the renewal of the fishing fleet, and we have heard here from Minister Calmeta that certain shifts have been made, but he himself knows that they are not enough or what has prevented the government from yet in the spring, if not earlier, of the Coast Guard Act? We here in an old Croatian way can divide over our fate and say here we have not done what we should have done. We don't know how to protect our seas. So if we continue to discuss how some club representatives who will support this government proposal have discussed it, then we will never really protect our Adriatic and not protect it. So the Coast Guard was twice the legal proposal of the SDP in a parliamentary debate, the government said it was not good, that it would do some of its own, but until today's proposal has not been seen, and the Coast Guard is one of the essential instruments for the control and application of this belt. And giving up on the application of ZERP not only endangers the protection of the Adriatic, but also endangers something that no one has indicated in this way, which is an approach to the European Union itself because if we explain our decisions with the demands of the European Union and we say Barroso said if you declare it, you will pass as Turkey. Well, of course, citizens will never be able to enter Croatia into such a European Union, which in this one ultimate way requires a small Croatian to behave. So as a convinced European, I ask a question, and what are we going to do in such a European Union that asks us for such a thing? But I'm sure she's not looking for it. Because I believe that the declaration of ZERP is a confirmation of the European behaviour of the Republic of Croatia, because neither the European Union, the public in it wants the natural wealth of Europe, and the Adriatic Sea is certainly one of the most beautiful European seas, if it is not the most beautiful and certainly one of the most significant natural treasures and Europe does not want it to be destroyed, turned into the Black Sea or the Dead Sea. Even at the meetings of a parliamentary group of Mediterranean countries, Komstuda, where I was also with my colleague Tadic a month ago in Cairo or a year ago in Beirut under the auspices of the European Commission, or the Mediterranean Committee on Sustainable Development, pointed to the sustainable use of the Mediterranean and its protection, and Jadran is part of the Mediterranean. The meeting was also attended by the Minister of Environmental Protection of Finland, the European Union's chairman. So, by declaring ZERP, by declaring unquestionably this ecological component is only on the trail of the best gains of the European Union. The problem that remains is the problem of this fishing zone, the fishing belt, but again I would not reduce it to the problem of the European Union and their insistence that we do not declare it, but this is a problem that we will have with the larger capital of the fishing industry in Italy that should never have an illusion, will never give up on its own interests. And therefore, by declaring these fishing components, we protect not only Croatian fishermen but we also protect Italian fishermen. The Italian fishermen themselves, the more reasonable ones, will say, if you don't protect the Adriatic Sea, these locusts with big ships will all go up. There will be no fish left for these medium and small Italian fishermen, and clearly neither for Croatia. So this is in the interest of both Croatian and Italian fishermen. Therefore, I call on the Government to stop these wanderings, to withdraw this bill, or to try to find a compromise on the trace of the organic zone's declaration immediately, and within a reasonable period of time and fishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80405	Replica. Dear Representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80406	counterpart Pancic said the ZERP issue is a matter of Croatian sovereignty. To a large extent, I agree. I do not go from word to word, though former Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic, i.e. Italy, Mr. Finni, who, without major diplomatic accusations and celefans, claimed that the Dalmatian landscapes are historic parts of Italy. And I can't forget that during the Milky Way that ruled those parts for so many years, the Adriatic Sea was not called the Adriatic Sea, it was called Golfo di Venice. Venice Bay. I assure you that with this kind of policy we question our dignity and I find it so strange to know, let's say that, let's say, I know how they think about it. I think HDZ is now in one situation, if it were a person, I'd say it's a person who's going to end up in psychiatry because there's a double personality in some way. First, ZERP was insufficient, looking for an economic belt. And now ZERP is too much to ask for a delay. It's really a strange situation. When ZERP was sought, the prime minister, today's Prime Minister Sanader, then the opposition leader said it was a bargaining policy. What would you call HDZ policy right now if we were doing it miraculously and you were in opposition? And I'm really saying once again, that we resonate HDZ, that it's a person, so that party would end up in psychiatry, on a hospital bed if it's simple, you act like a homo duplex, like a double person. Either you think one thing, and the other you do or you have to or I have no idea what. I watched Prime Minister Sanader's TV show last night when he said there was nothing...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80407	Thank you. The answer to the replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80408	... Europe talk, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80409	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80410	Both yesterday and today and 15 years ago, this party that I'm headed by is saying the same thing. That's not what I'm saying. That's what Prime Minister Sanader said two years ago. This is a matter of bargaining, or continuity. Now as much as it's continuity I don't know, but well, let's leave it to him, or to them. But about the Italian claims on the Adriatic, we've already said so much, but our problem is, our problem with the Croats is that we haven't learned anything from it. The Croatian sea is the Adriatic Sea, our sovereign right to protect it. The European Union, in the European Union, can only be supported by this. And let me remind you, here's when we're a little bit into history, now, in a few years' time, we're going to come up with 600-year-old sales of Vladislav Naples that sells to Venice and all its rights to Dalmatia. I hope that the new Vladislav will never be in Croatia now and in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80411	Replica, a respected representative, vice president of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80412	First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Pancic if he had raised one question concerning the issue of sovereignty. We often have different interpretations around him, and I also feel guilty about interpretations. First, according to our Constitution we have declared sovereignly on the internal waters and on the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia, and this does not cover either the economic belt or the ecological-fishing belt. It does not establish the sovereignty of a country nor can sovereignty be established, but certain rights, powers and certain duties are acquired in accordance with the international Convention. Or you could say some kind of sovereign right, but not sovereignty. Why? Because sovereignty implies only under itself the absolute authority of a country in that area, and here, according to the international convention, freedom of navigation, flying, laying of submarine cables, pipelines, etc., etc. must be ensured. So there isn't and can't be talked about full sovereignty. Well, there's something else that's very important. One important fact is that according to our Constitution in Article 50 is clearly prescribed as you all know, among other things, that the sea, the sea coast, etc., that I am not talking about all this, is well of interest to the Republic of Croatia that it is regulated by law. To call for international law, and in particular the 82nd Convention on the Law of the Sea, in particular Articles 55, 56, etc. In fact, it created an opportunity to create and declare an ecological-fishing belt that, along with an epicontinental belt belonging to the coastal state, where the agreement within the former Yugoslavia was made already with Italy on demarcation. Practically, it ensures almost all economic rights in that area in the Republic of Croatia and proclaiming the ecological and fishing belt. The Republic of Croatia has acquired the rights of the economic or economic benefit of this band over fish, i.e. the flora and fauna of the fishing belt and of course the obligation to protect the ecological and fishing belt and, at the same time, the obligation to...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80413	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80414	...the surveillance and control of their pollution...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80415	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80416	This was one legal interpretation, and now I'm continuing with the political. So I was talking about the natural resources left over in Croatia. Agricultural land, forests, water and sea. If we sell the agricultural land to foreign banks, if we cut the forests, if we give the springs to foreign concessionaries, if the Adriatic coast is concreteized by apartments that we'll sell to someone, if we let the tankers run without any control, then I ask the question and what else will we have left? Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80417	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80418	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives! At one point Mr. Markov was politicizing for some of my views when I spoke in front of the club how to defend ZERP from the occasion he said, so we have a coast guard, we have port captains, we have a navy. However, I also want to say, I will not go to war, and for their sake and for my son's sake, etc., because of the fish, although it is clear that I am not afraid of it, and no responsible government will ever afford it. This debate, among other things, is encouraging to touch the small state of the industry along the coast, as well as the fishing fleets, as well as the shipbuilding and conclusion, is not good. Our ships are on average over 60 years old and can't go to the open sea. In 1989, at that time of darkness as we call it, we then processed about 55,000 of these tons of fish, today only 15,000 tons. The fish processing industry is also bad and I'm not counting any further. The one who also thinks that overnight we will solve all the problems we have with the Adriatic with ZERP is also wrong. I said in my debate that the essential problem of small fishermen is how to get favourable loans to get to the boat, how to get to the tools, how to sell the fish so that the innkeepers don't blackmail him, how to clearly get to the wholesalers, how to get to the diesel that they will pay at the same price as the Italian fishermen. One word about how our fishermen can become as competitive as their colleagues from the west side of the Adriatic. There is no one here among us who is not for an absolute protection of the Adriatic. We are absolutely probably all for Croatia to consume its sovereign rights. Clearly, we all agree here, but we also cannot compromise our international position. To be honest, I do not expect Brussels to create any problems in Croatia at this time. The suggestion is that God will not produce any effects anyway. Finally, it is most likely to enter into force 1.1.2008, which will say that the ZERP Government's mandate will not be applied. I also expect no problem from Italy, but everyone who thinks the ZERP problem of the Slovenians will use only as their own within political problem for political confrontation and not for one decisive appearance towards the Republic of Croatia. Come on, I'd like to be wrong. I remember in 2003 when we talked about ZERP, when Slovenia's interests were de facto protected by the European Union, more specifically those gentlemen related to Roman Prodi, there was Solana, there was Peten, there was Fischler etc. What is clear, I agree with you, that Slovenia has, for example, declared its epi-continental belt even though it does not belong to them by any logic, as it also offends me that Zagreb and Ljubljana in these fifteen or sixteen years are unable to close a single open question between the two states. The Croatian side of my court has made three gaffes. It is probably this signature by Mr Bištevic, which the Minister will not agree with but is the fact that this Brussels and Rome and Ljubljana, etc., interprets or recognises it as an agreement. Second, that we did not lobby all the countries or metropolis that live alongside this Adriatic, to perform together for its protection. And finally, if it wanted to be declared ZERP and I claim it could have happened within 48 hours after the Italians did. When Slovenia, for example, declared its epi-continental belt that does not belong to it by any law, then we responded willingly, adopted a resolution or declaration a few months ago. Now probably the Slovenian Parliament will also send a few diplomatic notes because of ZERP, however, what is the essential question, what are we going to do tomorrow? That's a fundamental question. How will we now as a nation, as a country, consume ZERP? What are we going to consume it with? What if every day, for example, 20, 30, 50 Italian fishermen sail to the Adriatic Sea? Are we going to send on them as Mr. Markov would say, police, patrol, or don't I know military boats? Are we going to sell our quotas, etc.? Unfortunately, I know that no matter what happens during today or tomorrow, we still have a lot of time or our fishermen will not be able to catch any more fish, because we've been fishing for two, three years now with about 25, 26 thousand tons, we've come to 22,000 tons, as the Italian fleet is fishing from year to year more and more. Unfortunately, our fish processing industry won't produce any more shellfish in the meantime. And I also have the impression that, say, the position of our fishermen in the meantime can only get worse, unfortunately it won't improve. Now, if we keep in mind that in the first ten months, we've met this year's tuna harvest quota of cca. Thousands of tons and this tuna brings us about $150 million annually, only in Zadar County is exported about $100 million of tuna, so, as confirmed by Mr. Minister, and that de facto production has dropped 50% because of the competition that appears in Greece, Turkey, Malta, Spain, I don't know everything where, then the question is, when are we going to define a rational fishing policy? Now the question is, are we going to solve these issues with ZERP or are we going to solve the change in the relationship to the fisherman? The only change means a relationship to the fishermen, only strengthening their material position, only an increase in the fishing fleet can lead to the end of the day, in a year, two, three days, that ZERP finally consumes. Now can we do it in two or three years, especially if, for example, God forbid, we enter the European Union in the middle of '99. or early, or late '99. or in early 2010? It's clear, we can't. What we can and probably will in the meantime, again, we can question the position of fishermen and unfortunately our processing industry without talking about the basic industry along the coast. I would also like to know what this term means "ZERP will start to apply at the latest 1.1.2008.", so it can be before, but on the other hand, we all kind of read that it will be a weight on the new government, although two, three or six months, that defacto doesn't change things, and the future government will fear if and if I want to change the government, say, 1.1.2008. probably also extend that decision in a year or two days. The biggest problem means with these economic reasons that I am talking about with this international position in which the Republic of Croatia has found itself is this huge politicisation that we are all exposed to. Due to the petty political interest, I would dare say that I am willing to even harm the interest of a large number of citizens who are far more concerned at this point whether I can pay bills I don't know about electricity, water, whether I can get or get in a chance to pay them for the goods delivered or the works done that they have earned, whether they will have for the winter than they are thinking about ZERP at this point. In the end, in two or three years when gentlemen draw a line under this debate, the result will be very modest. I'm not going to say that the result is going to be zero, but it's not going to be much bigger than zero. And that's why you need to sit at the table first of all with your neighbors, and that's why you need to start running that Adriatic policy. Mr. Mesic now mentions this conference. Mr. Bebic said he talked about it at this meeting with Prime Minister Jakovic and I think it's a good approach. I think that's the only solution. Everything else in the Adriatic Sea and our fishermen won't help. And I agree absolutely with Mr. Pancic, but we're not just protecting the Adriatic for ourselves. We protect the Adriatic for all who live next to the Adriatic Sea equally for Croatians and Italians, for Slovenians and all those who enter these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80419	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80420	And above all, for those who live on the Adriatic Sea, these are fishermen who dwell on the borders of the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80421	Thank you. We've got three replicas at a rate like this, and we're gonna end up with this many reports around 8:00. I'm appealing, we've told each other everything, so I think we should cut back a little bit, not keep everyone going. Replicated Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80422	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Cain! Of course, I am personally, and I believe everyone above all for normal dialogue, conversation and that all problems and open issues are solved by dialogue and conversation. But you can't say that this is about petty political interests. You know, if the sea and its protection are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, which is because it is written in our Constitution in Article 52, then it cannot be a small political interest. That's the first one. The second thing that is very important in this respect is that you know this delusion about how warships, aircraft, helicopters, and I don't know what to protect ZERP fully needs to be lit up, it doesn't stand at all because the fact that international law and it gives the possibility of protection and not only the possibility but also the protection and obligation to protect that part of the sea, which, if the natural international right is used, of course, is declared an eco-fishing belt or an entirely economic zone. And we did that part, not only because of international rights, but because of the obligation our own Constitution makes in Article 52, and in this respect it is very good that we have made one of the precedents. I would like to remind you that, in the Mediterranean before us, France, Spain, Malta, Turkey, did so, that Slovenia and Italy did not ask us or the European Union, nor did they have to do so in view of the international law that allows them the Convention on the Law of the Sea. What remains now is the question of the separation agreement concerning the eco-fishing belt and related to possible fish-fishing agreements, then environmental protection, etc., which is why, in 2003, it was given a period of one year to prepare for it and that we can work on that part. So, please, when we talk about this, should we defend the Adriatic Sea? The Adriatic Sea should be protected for the future. Thank God you don't have to defend him, that means there's no war conflicts in that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80423	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80424	I said before when I talked in front of the club, I'll be restrained about this item on the agenda. However, also to be honest, I regret that, let's say, we did not protect the Adriatic Sea in 2003, but what I will do when I was in error at the time. I'm not running from the truth. It is easy to defend ZERP in Brussels, but I fear that tomorrow the Republic of Croatia will not be able to defend it at sea. However, no matter what, I want to believe that this debate is dominant, and that is how everyone comes in the interest of protecting the ecological and every other Adriatic and not getting some political points. If this is the second in the Wednesdays, then it's a waste of effort for our players.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80425	Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80426	Dear Mr. Vice President! Comrade Cain, look. We all here forget the next thing, that on October 3, 2003, a decision was made and that the delay was a year and in point 3 it was precisely said that it was because of the creation of mechanisms to control and implement it. But you're all forgetting one important thing, which is that the ZERP day today refers to, who? It refers to Albania, refers to Bosnia and Herzegovina and refers to Montenegro. You forgot that. Only a delay was made in 2004 for Italy and Slovenia. And Minister Calmeta says we have no options, no conditions to protect. Then how do you protect in this part? And why now these three of our neighbouring countries have been brought into an unequal position. Because we ZERP then protect and implement towards Albania, according to Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, to which it refers, for which there is no delay or what is this about? And the decision specifically said that that year was given and that mechanisms would also be established and that these parts of the negotiations would be allowed. Let's talk about it. Who's being discriminated here now? Why now, for example, Albania, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina have other status than Slovenia and Italy and the biggest problem we have with Italy, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80427	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80428	Pero, we all know what was meant to be done in 2004, that it was simply a delusion of common sense. It concerns not only Albania, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also the Vatican. Just before, Mr. Pancic mentioned the king or I don't know who, Lord Ladislav, who sold the Vatican to Zadar and still the Zadar Archdiocese is not under the authority of Kaptola, but directly to the Vatican. I therefore agree entirely with what was wanted to be done in 2004. It was tossing sand into the eyes and, not to us because we are not so naive but to the Croatian public, try anything from something to do but is it possible to do anything more today than that 2004. I'm not defending anyone, I just don't justify what was done in 2003 or what was done today in 2006, and if I'm there for the vote, I'll be held back.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80429	Replica's esteemed representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80430	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, you have expressed two doubts in your presentation. One doubt was, in fact, whether the whole story would be prolonged again after 1.1.2008. And the other dilemma, better said than doubt, referred to whether, in fact, you did not actually say at one point that this was a political or political issue than that this is essentially about the fact that it's about protecting the Adriatic. I, unlike you, actually think it's here, that here first of all is a purely political issue. If you're actually going to compare the proposal in 2003 and 2004, then in this proposal that we got on the table today, you have an interesting actually complex, which is at the latest. Have you perhaps considered the calculation that 3 days before the elections will be declared ZERP and in fact that this is one of the vital issues of national interest is actually used for parties, for direct party interests. You should take care of that too. Because if that's the case, and I think it's a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80431	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80432	Absolutely that's what Mr. Lucin needs, I have no doubt about that possibility. That's what I was talking about in front of the club. And that's one option that can happen even though I'm closer to finding that ZERP will remain in force this way until 1.1.2008 and then some new government will extend it for a future uncertain period. I don't have any more doubts. There's only one with me. If we were to declare ZERP today, would we be able to control, consume all the effects of ZERP? Nothing more than that and clearly all for the purpose of protecting the Adriatic Sea and the status of understandable citizens living next to one or the other side of the Adriatic, fishermen and not counting further. That's what I think. So the only real doubt is if we can do it and there's a possibility it's gonna happen. I would almost love to, even though I am closer to finding that ZERP will be left in this form to a new government and this new government will make it a longing for a future uncertain period.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80433	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to point out immediately at the beginning of my debate that I will personally support the proposal of these laws because although I do not consider this decision to be the best solution at any time but at this point it seems to me that the only possible adoption of these proposals of the law package and in the absolute interest of our Croatian state. The Croatian People's Party's Policy has always and in every situation gone in terms of someone for Croatia's general good in front of some petty chickening of a political type that could bring more votes or some better points on a general scale of media success in that month. In the long term, looking at any political flirting that is not assumed by anyone for Croatia in general is not good. And unfortunately, I have to admit, this whole debate today is getting me a lot on the subject right now. So let's remind ourselves. The first proposal to declare the ZERP was proposed by the coalition government to the Croatian Parliament, which adopted the decision on the declaration in October 2003, with this to be applied since 2004. At that time, the president of the strongest opposition party said in his speech in the Assembly that the European Union cannot pressure Croatia and has scored what we have already had the opportunity to hear today, but I will still repeat: we will not vote for this which is neither a purely economic belt nor what the government originally proposed in its document and therefore some kind of ecological-fishing zone. Our regular man would say, "We've got some zucchini." Typical product of old-known Croatian bargaining and bargaining policy. Interesting attitudes viewed from the corners of today’s date and today’s political schedule in the country. So these are the clear views of the HDZ that show that the party will not allow some of the EU to force them in any way. In 2004, HDZ comes to power and changes its approach from Brussels, under the pressure of Brussels, under the pressure of Brussels, to change its position. In June 2004, the government now proposes a decision to stop the ZERP from applying to EU member states until a fisheries partnership agreement, which, by the way, the EU does not sign with candidate countries. According to that logic, ZERP would be applied to Italy and Slovenia when Croatia enters the European Union. The suspension of application is then cited as necessary for the purpose of obtaining candidate status. So one of the Prime Minister's logical locks. In order for Croatia to gain candidate status, it must cease to apply ZERP to the member states of the European Union until a partnership and fisheries agreement is signed which is known not to be signed with candidate countries. Such sophisms could be called "sanaderisms" because they are truly banal but they are well hidden in the termological confusion that is made when they are spoken of. On the occasion of this turn of mind Ivo Sanader then declares: "Yesterday and today, and 15 years ago, this party, to whom I am headed, says the same thing." That's what it stands for if it's meant by logical locks. But it doesn't say the same about ZERP, which is clearly seen from the prime minister's speech in the Parliament. And today we are where we are. This clearly shows the chronology of HDZ changing views on ZERP, which is not explained at all. Not only does it undermine the credibility of the ruling in clear attitudes, but when it merges with the "snaderisms" type we always, the guy we always say the same, pushes the whole thing into one logical nonsense. This pre-election year certainly requires a variety of political mainly national topics on which it would be possible to create political divergences. But in these conservative approaches and the desire to like the voters as if it had lost any clarity of political stance that marked at least one small number of parties in this House. And so in this political battle to achieve a better position in front of the plight of the weak public that we, Croatia with 4 million inhabitants, cannot remain a small isolated country in this united Europe, that our interest is necessary as soon as possible to adapt to the legislation, but also to the way of civilised dealing with partners in this Europe, and that this is the finished ultimatum of demand for Europe that only one in a series of studies in the possibilities of our polite adaptation and assumption of a healthy mind about thinking about whether the ecologically devastated and on the cards of the almost completely blacked Adriatic can protect us unilaterally and whether keeping from further distortion of ecological balance can only be achieved by a unilateral decision which the other side will not respect. I sincerely believe that this pressure from the European Union as far as our declaration of ZERP is concerned is just one small test of bonton. Namely, who doesn't know that everything in the European Union, but all decisions are made by consensus and agreement, that no one in the European Union can impose anything on anyone else. Whoever didn't realize that is certainly not ready to enter that integration yet. It's the same thing with the question of ZERP. The leaders of the European Union listen to whether the Republic of Croatia has learned democracy and whether it is willing to negotiate civilised and politely, even if it has an undisputed right, which is an eco-fishing belt. And if we have principled remarks about reaching consensus between the ruling and the opposition because the appeal to political reason seems to be only one-sided, given that this mind was far behind in October 2003 when the spear of pre-election points was grinded on that topic, only then, with today's ruling HDZ in the latter opposition, I agree that it is cheap, that this is cheap politics should be forgotten and turned to the right decisions that are in the wake of Croatia's well-being. Some clubs, as some individuals today mentioned in 2007 as those who must be declared ZERP. I honestly don't think it's a political good idea, and technically it's completely inconclusive. First of all, it is not in the interest of the left, to rush into something that we know will cool off our relations with the European Union. You should give diplomacy to do your job and try with as little consequence to protect one of your own state interests. I say one, because the other is very much entering the European Union. I don't think there's anyone here who's brave enough to say that one of these interests is more important than the other. On the other hand, we know that we do not have technical opportunities to implement the ZERP from the beginning of next year. The question is, do we even have them since 1.1.2008? We miss surveillance ships, we don't have an organized coast guard, fishers that could draw fish are insufficient or insufficient technical capacity. We don't have anywhere to store the fish because we miss the coolers. No fishing ports or at least secured locations through spatial plans for those ports. Fish-placers on the retail market. And speaking of wholesalers, I would remind those who unfortunately are not in this Chamber, but were not once guilty and in charge of 24 million euros of loans that we failed to manage if you remember to spend on building those precisely wholesalers. In order for ZERP to have its full purpose and benefits for Croatia and the sea, i.e. to fully fulfil its purpose and thereby protect the state interest of the CNS, we ask that the budget of 2007 provide the means for the implementation of the minimum technical preconditions for the application of the ZERP, or all that I have previously listed. Our right to an ecological fishing belt can't be challenged. We have 3/4 of all Adriatic coasts and we are obliged to manage the fish fund wisely and protect the marine environment. It is about political attitudes, all changes and no changes in opinions and positions, all compromises and intricacies. HNS is always, so in this case completely clear and our system of values is unquestioned this time. We will support the postponement of ZERP's application because I believe that it is unilaterally impossible to protect the Adriatic. Because technically we are not ready for this protection, we are implementing it properly planned in the budget and with the dynamics of realisation we can eventually catch up to 1.1.2008. And finally, I sincerely advocate to remove each and every one of our fishermen who have entered the ZERP area from their passports and, if the government accepts the CNS's conclusion, I will also support amendments to the Law on the Control of the State Border as well as a decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80435	Thank you. He has a word, a replica of the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80436	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, briefly and clearly. Here I can accept the fact that HNS is principled and clear, I can. I can accept the fact that this is what you said. But now I can't, I don't know if you're voting for that pumpkin or not. That I'd like an answer because you're in... They said why you're making a big deal out of her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80437	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80438	My dear colleague, I'd like to tell you again, because I think you're absolutely, you've just made a completely wrong point. Namely, when I was talking about chubby, I mentioned the 2003 Prime Minister's quote. But you didn't listen to me very carefully enough, so unfortunately you couldn't even figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80439	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80440	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I view the application of the ZERP as one of the sovereign decisions which Croatia has the right to international law and for whose adoption as well as for adoption and implementation cannot be prevented or prevented by the law of the European Union. And in this respect, the Republic of Croatia has no obligations until the meeting and commitments made in the Venice Commission. Another thing I'd like to say clearly and unequivocally. The decision to declare ZERP was taken by the parliament in October 2003 on a proposal of course by the coalition government. And he also, instead of the economic belt, then declared the ecological and fishing component of the economic belt, leaving itself with the possibility that, if necessary, the application and the last chapter of the Maritime Code, that is, to declare it related to Chapter 4. Secondly, what does it mean to declare a fishing-environment zone? It means using all rights of the economic belt other than the right to place artificial islands, use or produce electricity from waves, then wind and sea currents, i.e. tides and tides. And in such a situation, it is quite clear that, with the epicontinental belt, with the low waves that occur in the Adriatic Sea, it is practically not possible to use this second part as well as to use the wind and not cost-effectively. The third thing that's important is to say. At that time, the Parliament, in its decision in point 3 of the above, made and determined the period until the application of the regime itself, but it was very clear. For the preparation of implementing mechanisms, and for the possible conclusion of agreements and arrangements with interested countries and European countries. We are now arguing that we still need that time, and at the same time when we made this decision on the declaration, practically today the key party of the ruling HDZ coalition was against such a decision, arguing that an economic belt should be declared. Another thing I'd like to point out. I would like to point out that we were not the first in this regard, although we join the countries that made the precedent. First in the Mediterranean until then, no one had any intention or was able to declare an economic belt. Second, it has been declared either organic and fishing or only fishing zones, such as France, Spain, Malta and Turkey. Thirdly, we did so before the meeting of the Venice Commission in November 2003, and in this respect it was precedentd in relation to the Commission and the conclusions of the Commission could not be applied to the Republic of Croatia and after the declaration of the decision on ZERP, it happened that the European Union had only shown regret and nothing else because it was neither relevant nor competent for that matter. In such a situation, the question is now what happens after the election. After the election, instead of accessing the implementation of point 3 of the decision on how the preparation and creation of implementing mechanisms and possible conclusion of the agreement is beautifully written here, etc. Suddenly this is put deep into the drawer of the whole decision, waiting for time and in the 10th month from the clear sky comes a proposal to amend and supplement a decision that says, I quote: "For the Member States of the European Union, the application of the legal regime of the protected ecological fisheries band of the Republic of Croatia will begin at the latest with the conclusion of a partnership and fisheries agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia." Now what does that mean? The first fact that is irrefutable with the candidate country is not a partnership between this part. This means practically delaying the application of the ZERP until the entry and full membership of the European Union. That's the real truth behind it. That's the truth. It is a decision that was made to us in the 10th month, in June 2004 and, as you know, on 3 June, we voted against this decision delaying the application of that decision. The other thing that matters. It is important to break the principles of mutual relations between the members of the European Union, because they are not only the principles of conversation and dialogue but also the principles of rule of law, but also one of the key principles is non-discrimination. Dear colleagues and colleagues of this kind of delay has happened something that is amazing that practically ZERP applies to our fishermen, applies not only to our fishermen but also to sailors and boaters, it applies to the fishermen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania, etc. etc. or countries which are not members of the European Union, which means that our ecological and fishing rules regarding fish fishing, environmental protection, as well as regulations relating to maritime transport related to environmental protection apply to our shipowners and to non-members and non-members of the European Union, but do not apply to members of the European Union or Italy and Slovenia, and they actually have a status when it comes to ZERP, as if they are on the high seas. This is discrimination against their own country and discrimination against their own country entities, including fishermen and shipowners, not only and of course discrimination against countries outside the European Union. It is therefore also an infringement of the European Union's principle of non-discrimination. Thirdly, in this context, I would like to point out in particular. Not only is such a decision then made but something is being made which is what I am after, here it has been almost two years, practically startled, which is that it was then signed the record, a statement that some say or interpret, in fact it is officially a record of some kind, let's call some kind, which among other things the Republic of Croatia accepts for itself very strong and very hard obligations, other than this decision, and it is, I will quote paragraph 3 of that report: "Croatia has confirmed that during that period there will be no change in the existing regime for the Member States of the European Union in the area in question of the Adriatic Sea". Please, not in relation to the decision, but there will be no change in the existing regime for members of the European Union, which is contrary to the international convention, because, depending on the international convention, we must also ensure that the international Convention is applied to environmental and fisheries protection in a particular respect. So there's a lot stricter, and in a situation like this, something that doesn't exist. You know, such a precedent doesn't exist for the executive power to rule the parliamentary power and the legislative power to decide. Or this, only one can make such a conclusion to the Parliament, no one else. No one else. No foreign office, foreign ministry or government as a whole and at least to be brought by the foreign ministry because it was signed by the secretary of state. Of course, there was an interesting statement in the Croatian public, a statement, I do not know, which was published and which indicated that this decision, which was signed there, would be placed among other things with us and with the media. And what happened? Only in 7.12.2006, after representatives of the European Union mention it as a contract and it has the character of contracts and obligations, only then does it actually appear on the Internet, i.e. on the website and portal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The question arises, and why has it been hiding for so long? Among other things, because of such hard-earned commitments that lead to the chess position of the Republic of Croatia. Now you see a very important question is opening up. Of course the Republic of Croatia has a double interest and both are national. One under the law... under Article 52 of the protection of the sea from the interest of the Republic of Croatia and its exploitation and law should be regulated. On the other hand, it is our interest to join the European Union. After signing such acts and commitments to the European Union, which some say were pressured that the European Union forced us to, but we did not have to agree, because we cannot agree, we should not agree to actually take decisions and sign decisions that are at their own expense. But if we have already done so, then we now need to find an appropriate measure and an appropriate measure to be to protect one and another national interest. If it happens in the meantime, and it happened, that Slovenia and Italy also declared ecological, i.e. fishing zones and economic zones then we must bring Europe into place that Croatia in its, in protecting its ZERP must be at least equal with Slovenia and Italy. And this segment must begin to apply what it is, the ecological zone that Italy has and which Slovenia has. In order to protect it, we ask that it be applied immediately when it comes to the ecological zone, and on the other hand that when it comes to fishing and the protection of fishing to add another 6 months. Not so much for Slovenia and Italy and the countries of the European Union, but to ensure the implementation of these mechanisms and agreements that will enable the harmonisation and resolution of possible disagreements between us, Slovenia and Italy. And that's why we put one amendment to the parliamentary procedure as a club representative and I'm convinced if you want to get...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80441	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80442	... by accepting such an amendment can actually do much to protect the national interests of the Republic of Croatia, both of which. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80443	The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80444	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think the fundamental problem is this, by discussing the meaning of the economic belt, and otherwise in the Croatian Parliament on the economic belt is being discussed since 30.3.2001, when my club submitted a proposal for a declaration, a proposal for a decision to declare the economic belt, and then we came to its ZERP derivative. The problem is that we're discussing, so here, or we're negotiating with someone else whether we're going to use our rights or not. That's the whole point of the problem. That's your variant, you have the right to a jubilee prize, it belongs to you, and then you and your neighbors will talk about whether you're going to use it right or not. So that's what the problem is. And then that inconsistencies, inconsistency and acceptance of everything outside has led us to see that this issue is more us in Croatia, or the government acts so that it is no longer a legal issue but a political issue for the government. In the end, the political issue because of the fact that on 4 June 2004, the secretary of state probably did after the government's approval, gave his signature on that record. So that's where the mistake was next. If it was to negotiate in that part, the biggest mistake was what was being negotiated with Slovenia and what was being negotiated with Italy. This was not to be negotiated even with the European Commission, the European Union, but to negotiate with them alone would be different. In the meantime, the same Italy, the same Slovenia, declares the ecological part. And now we're talking about it, says the minister, everyone from the government, we don't have much conditions, mechanisms to protect ZERP. So as you protect him from what I once said, compared to Montenegro, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Albania. Why are you discriminating them? Let's say, in the part of Croatia, Boka, as it has always been said, there are people living in Croatia who are fishing. So who are you discriminating now? Oh, yeah, you discriminate against our fishermen and them, and you say we have no conditions. So that's one, that's the part where there's no principle, when there's no consistency. Then you make these initial mistakes and you come back to me on the subject. Let's get back to the subject if you have political powers, political will. The only solution is this. Ecological part declared immediately, the ecological part declared immediately. We can accept that the fishing area will wait until July 1st next year, and then with a 1.1.2008 economic belt. Because you're all forgetting, my president said nicely, one is an economic belt. So the United Nations Open Sea Convention doesn't talk about ZERP. ZERP is a derivative that the former government invented to solve something. It's your situation, the economic belt is the whole car, and ZERP is the bodywork. Why? Because we're not talking about what's important and that's part of the submarine and the bottom. So, possible, mining wealth in the Croatian Adriatic. So we limit ourselves in advance and say we won't use them. So, and there's this variant that we lose somewhere around 2m euros a year. And now it's still a situation that we haven't done the part that's very important in this time, which allows us to do articles 60 to 62. United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Therefore, the State should first determine what is the ecologically sustainable maximum of fishing in its economic zone, then determine what is the fishing capacity of its fleet and the surplus through paid concessions is left to neighbouring countries. And what have we done now at this point? Our fishermen could not enter this part of ZERP because they did not have the permits or the zoning was made, and Italian fishermen, Slovenia could normally enter. And who now, what is this? This is a postponement to a new delay. Here, it's you... So when it becomes clear what this miracle beak is, whether it's a mammal or a bird, we might find out when the government will find its strength and suggest this part of what we in HSP are proposing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80445	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80446	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, other government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk about something that no one has said anything about even though the vice president has already found that everyone has already told everyone everything, it's not true. Before that, only two sentences related to the course of the debate so far. As Primorac, I think this is an extremely important topic and I have to say that I am not only disappointed because this debate in most parts was humiliating. Today, to be heroic and to shift to each other's responsibilities and guilt, this assembly of Parliaments to the last assembly of Parliaments, to the past or the previous government, it is a degutant to me. My colleagues and colleagues, it's all our fault. It was never smart enough to put the arguments on the table and convince Europe that these arguments deserve us to get ZERP. That should have been done a long time ago, but unfortunately we didn't. Since colleague Cain and colleague Letica have handled Tito well, I will not go on the subject, but I will say something about that period because we were also very incorrect, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian politicians, may I wait for the debate to end in the left? In fact, Croatian politicians in the former Yugoslavia were not allowed to talk much about the Adriatic orientation of Croatia, but they left, colleagues and colleagues, a clear trail. We had the 7th Fleet in force in the world, we had the 4th power of shipbuilding in the world, we had the tourism that we fed our food, etc., etc. I beg of you, and today we're talking a lot about the Adriatic orientation, but unfortunately we haven't left a trace yet. That's what I'm responsible for. Everyone at sea will tell you that. But let's go back to what I said I would explain here, because no one said a single word about it, not a prime minister these days, not a minister, not a minister, not any of the party leaders. The question is whether we are moving away from Europe by declaring ZERP, are we making it difficult to negotiate and move closer, to join Europe? If we continue our colleagues and colleagues like this, then the answer may be yes, we are making it difficult for our situation, but I am responsibly saying that if we set ourselves up differently, it doesn't have to be that way. In fact, if we declare ZERP a way to fit it into the European Union's maritime policy, and we haven't said anything about it, then we'll do a good job. Namely, colleagues and colleagues do you know that on 7 June this year, Commissioner of the European Commission Mr Borg for Fisheries announced so-called Green paper starting to create a new European Union strategy in the management of the sea? We haven't said a word about her. Then, on 15 and 16 June, the European Commission adopted this report and launched a one-year period of debate on the strategic document in groups of experts with countries and regions in coastal areas, even with countries outside the European Union. For 3 months after the publication of the green paper Norway has agreed with the European Union everything related to the quotas... certain species of fish in certain areas, certain seas where Norwegians hunt and Europeans hunt in their seas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Very clear. Quotas are reduced by 12 and a half to 25% for individual species, etc., etc. So the question follows clearly how much we have done, how much our Government has made to discuss this document with the European Union, how much we have essentially contacted those Commissioners who are in charge of this Strategy, and I will tell you that as many as 7 Commissioners from the Commission, this is about the Commissioner for Environment, Transport, Economy, Energy, Regional Affairs, Social Affairs and Fisheries. Have our competent ministers contacted them directly? Did they make a deal with them? Is that how we made it easier, prepared the area, and the way we're going to present ZERP? Probably the answer to all those questions is no, no, no, and no. That's sad. It's more than sad, because we know that this document is actually so good and so it goes in favor of us, it's very much in favour of declaring ZERP. The goal of the European strategy and our ZERP is the same, identical, consistent, we just need to put the arguments on the table and convince Europe that it is and believe us we will get their support. Namely, read that document. There are 40 pages and it is a brilliant basis for every debate and our debate with Europe on all these issues. In particular, I would like to stress that a large chapter in this green paper concerns measures to prevent illegal fishing, unreported fishing and unlicensed fishing. They even formed advice, pardoning the Advisory Committee on Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, and the advice had its plenary session first a few days ago on December 7th. Once again on the Internet, you'll find their suggestions, everything goes back to us, but we need to get involved in this debate, there's a clear open space for cooperation, they're calling on everyone, and we're calling for cooperation, so let's take that step. Also interesting are the actions of colleagues and colleagues in the field of the introduction of electronic logbooks and clear electronic monitoring, satellite monitoring of every fisherman, which will completely prevent illegal fishing. Radar systems are a thing of the past. Then the scientific monitoring of all the elements that we talked about today was agreed to agree on with the basis of scientific and professional data on future quotas... certain species of fish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Further mechanisms have been regulated, and I'm sorry, but there's something else. The European Council has already adopted three documents on the basis of this green paper on 20 and 21 November, and these three documents refer to the mechanisms for the protection of fish stocks in certain European seas, unfortunately, the Adriatic is not mentioned, the introduction of electronic logbooks and the monitoring of fishermen and the determination of quotas... The fish in the deep seas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once again, one part of the Adriatic is not mentioned deeply. Whose fault, I wonder. Next year will be on this document of years of maricculture where you will discuss the promotion of mariculture, the possibilities of mariculture, about... marine species diseases to be grown, improving the quality and competitiveness of European products, the European Fisheries Fund will be established. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80447	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80448	So, colleagues and colleagues, I think if Norway could do this job then we can get in touch with colleagues in Europe, explain and prepare what, namely prepare ourselves well for what is ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80449	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Jaksa Marasovic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his word. The word has a distinguished representative, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the whole day we're actually talking about three documents that all three of them are equally important. One is this decision to extend jurisdiction, one is the Law on the Control of the State Border where we allow our fishermen to at least do what the Italians and Slovenians can do and the third are, and whether or not they want to talk about it, the third conclusions on budget rebalancing are that all that we swear next year we can spend so that we can at least convert something to practice. To talk about all three is necessary. To talk about the essence of things, therefore, about the metrics, about what we intend to do now and in the future, is necessary, and all this talk about the state's interest is only possible. And what do we look like? It's about who did what year, who didn't do what year, what this government missed, what the previous one was, what kind of potato she transferred to this government, what kind of ball this government is going to take over the network to the future government and that kind of thing. The bottom line is that no one in this matter has ever taken anything from the Croatian government, nothing, not one step so far, except for the vote in this House of One, the other, the third declaration that we will, that we are ready, that we will postpone, that we should not now be resented for six months, eight months, 42 days, a year and so on. None of that gives any results. The only result is to show our own inefficiencies and our own political inconclusiveness. So how will someone in this white world and in this beautiful Europe take us seriously if we don't take ourselves seriously? If we are able to harden here and no one is against it in particular. This is just a delay in some future delay. So we'll postpone until next time, and then next time. If we do not take ourselves seriously enough, that the decision we make here is no matter which majority, who is in power, that decision is the law under which tomorrow, today and every future government and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia must behave. If we don't understand it, if we're not serious enough to act like it, how will the world take us seriously. In that basket, the impotences are all equally powerless. However, if we try for at least a moment to accept that what we are about to adopt today is really going to be adopted and spent. To activate ZERP, the next government will have serious business. Why is this activation today, right now not possible? Actually it is possible, we could vote here today, as of tomorrow morning ZERP fully works, the economic belt fully works, there's no problem, we can vote everything, most agree and vote. Who's gonna catch our fish from our fishermen in our belt? What's he gonna catch them with? They have nothing to do with it. Where will the fish be sold? No fish markets. Which ports will your ships dock? There's no port for fishermen. When Italian ships that are both modern and fast and well equipped enter our area, who will catch them? Well, there's no one to catch. So this year, which is ahead of us, and there is also the essence of the conclusions proposed by the Croatian People's Party Club, is the year to prepare and do everything to make what we're talking about, 1.1.2008 a serious job that someone who knows how to do the job, who knows how to prepare the project, can really spend within a month. Since no government so far knew that part of Croatian sovereignty could, wanted to protect... That the next one will be able to do it, and they'll have to do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, assuming that the present without the figurines in her pocket, those common figurines in her pocket, enable and create assumptions that in the year 1.1 of 2008, indeed, we can in what we swear and hold our hand in the heart and where we don't, we can implement what we and the Constitution and the laws of this country actually empower us and what they tell us to do. Assuming that these three documents will pass in parallel in this House, will be accepted in this House, I will join and accept these, all three of these acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80451	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, according to the International Law of the Sea, which has been confirmed by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, which gives coastal states the right to declare their economic belt in the extension of their territorial sea, the Croatian Parliament took the decision on the enlargement and jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia on the Adriatic Sea on 3 October 2003. By decision of the Eco-fishing Belt declared, the Republic of Croatia was given the possibility to extend its jurisdiction to the Adriatic or the possibility to exercise its sovereign rights within the meaning of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea as if it were an exclusive economic belt. Although the same content is referred to from two different names, the exclusive economic belt and eco-fishing belt at the time of the proposal for a declaration in this House had fierce opponents who denied the recognition of the world-class experts for the rights of the sea to the eco-fishing belt. They denied him the identity of the content and called it a strange beak, a hybrid, and then a representative and today the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia called it a pumpkin, a typical product of old-known Croatian bargaining and bargaining policies. At that time, he advocated the declaration of an exclusively economic belt, refusing to recognise the opinion of international experts that the content of the economic belt is equal to the content of the eco-fishing belt. On all grounds that the eco-fishing belt is acceptable to the European Union exclusively, that it has been declared by some of its members, this is about Croatia and Croatian interests. And I am aware, he said, I am aware of my words that I am speaking here at the pay phone of the Croatian Parliament but I am also aware that in the '90s no one in Croatia wanted in the international community. There are some moments where we have to take risks. We're holding that right now are those moments. In contrast to the very determined and courageous position and opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia headed by the MP at the time, today the prime minister is proposing to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a decision and he makes the decision on 3 June 2004, which does not refer to the members of the European Union for the implementation of the legal regime of the protected eco-fishing band. It will apply after the conclusion of the Fisheries Partnership Treaty between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia. To date, this contract has not been concluded with the will of the parliamentary majority, Croatia has waived the right to extend its jurisdiction in the Adriatic Sea, thus giving up its sovereign right to explore and exploit, preserve and manage living natural water resources beyond the external border of the territorial sea. It is unexplainable that we now give up these rights so easily and only because, unlike the economic belt, a protected eco-fishing belt does not allow the use of wind power, tide strength and axis power and the installation of artificial islands. The ecological-fishing belt is called the strange beak, the pumpkin, the product of the bargaining policy, etc. The bargaining or non-contractual policy in Croatia has given up the rights of fishermen and this current government has given up only because it was explained by a representative of the 2004 decision-makers that it was assumed that someone in the EU might be angry with the application of the decision to extend jurisdiction. There was a strange explanation for the fact that in 2003, the MP said today's EU policy must be brought into line with the UN's convention and policy rather than the other way around. Obviously, in June 2004, the prime minister no longer meant what he thought in October 2003, and that is why we gave up the rights arising from the eco-fishing band, we gave up our national interests. That fear was unwarranted indicates the example of Malta. Although the EU's fishing and economic belt becomes an EU sea, it is possible for a Member State to retain its fishing rights in full or at least partially. Statistical indicators suggest that the Adriatic Sea gives 220 thousand tons of fish each year. In the catch, we're participating about 32,000 tons and leaving the rest to the Italians. Our catch opportunities are far greater but only if we manage our own fishing seas and this is the only protected eco-fishing belt. 130 countries in the world have declared their economic and ecological belts. All European Union countries have also declared other than Greece whose islands are very close to Turkey and therefore there is a problem. Therefore, it is clear from these examples that the 2004 decision was taken not under EU pressure or if there was pressure he was unfounded and the Croatian policy was permissive. The courage and determination of late 2003 ran out. Because of this permissiveness, we leave a million euros a day to the neighbouring country, which means over 300m euros a year and we have heard today that it is billions. To protect the interests of fishermen, in order to protect national interests and national pride and dignity, it is necessary to make a decision as proposed by the HSS and SDP Representatives Club. It would represent a strong negotiating foothold for our fisheries negotiators. Unless this Assembly accepts a proposal for a decision, the Republic of Croatia shall permanently waive the jurisdiction of nearly 25,000 square kilometres of its sea space. As a representative, I cannot take that responsibility and therefore support the proposal for a decision by the motion of the MPs of the HSS Club and the SDP, so before this decision violates the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia, because the state only defends its reputation if it defends its rights guaranteeing it by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Charter of the United Nations. It is noted that neither the European Union nor any of its acts nor the Stabilisation and Association Agreement prohibits the declaration of the belt. These are the reasons why I support the proposal of HSS and SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80453	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80454	Thank you. Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The national interest of the Republic of Croatia is certainly to become a full member of the European Union. But the national interest of the Republic of Croatia is to protect its good and its own national interests. Of course, the question is now being asked, and it is the dilemma of how to unite these two interests, which is more of an exceptional importance for the prosperity of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. And the role of each government is to try to reconcile as successfully as possible these two interests because the basic principle should be in Europe, yes but not at the expense of our national interests. One such situation when it is necessary to resort to certain compromises is this decision to declare a protected eco-fishing belt or, as we popularly call it, ZERP. The decision to declare the ZERP was reached by the Croatian Parliament in October 2003 on a proposal by the coalition government. The SDP also considered it necessary today to protect Croatian national interests in protecting the Adriatic and Croatian fishermen. At the time, the opposition at the time, and the current ruling party accused us of betraying national interests, insisted on the declaration of an exclusively economic belt, ZERP called different names not to repeat them again because we have heard them many times today. But then, as counterpart Mimica said on behalf of the club, the decision to declare a protected eco-fishing band was then a good political and diplomatic balance between the necessity of protecting the fishing and national interests of the Republic of Croatia and the non-fraction with the European Union at the time when the European Union's opinion on our application for membership was expected. The SDP, as today, viewed the full application of ZERP as a sovereign decision that the Republic of Croatia can make under international law. And behold, by coming to power, the same ones who attacked the former government that they were unable to resolve the issue of protection of the Adriatic and Croatian fishermen in just eight months changed their views in a diametric way. Under pressure from Brussels demands, which Prime Minister Sanader himself admitted in this House in June 2004, when defending the government's position at the time that ZERP does not apply to the EU Member States, I quote: "It is about us being in an extremely sensitive situation, in a historic situation when decisions are made for Croatia from the historical significance of decisions on candidate status and the date of the start of negotiations that we expect to start 17 or 18. June.". So, under these pressures, the Government proposed and the Parliament made a decision in June 2004 that does not apply to the Member States of the European Union until the conclusion of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement, which actually makes the entire activation of ZERP meaningless because the only two countries with a fishing fleet that hunts in the Croatian sea are destroying our natural resources precisely Italy and Slovenia. By doing so, Italian and Slovenian ships can hunt freely in our area of ZERP without the possibility of supervision by Croatian inspections and without the obligation to comply with Croatian rules on time and seasonal restrictions on fishing, fishing gears, species, size and quantity of fish that can be fished and the strength and size of ships that can fish. Our fishermen are so discriminated against because all Croatian rules on fishing apply to them in ZERP. At what rate this government is changing its attitudes, and the diametric opposite of that, we've had many opportunities to convince ourselves. Unfortunately, I'd say that's what we've had too often to convince ourselves. This best speaks of the consistency and credibility of this government. The SDP, together with the HSS, shall send its proposal for a decision to activate the ZERP for members of the European Union into the parliamentary procedure. The arguments for which this should be done are as follows: the European Union has stated that it does not conclude a fisheries partnership agreement with candidate countries. Italy and Slovenia have declared their ecological zones, and that is why we are asking the government to take a number of measures to remedy the situation in fisheries and the position of fishermen, strengthen control in ZERP and diplomatic activities to eliminate the negative reactions of the European Union. The SDP and HSS initiative has offered Prime Minister Sanader a very determined statement that he no longer has to postpone and request the activation of the ZERP and for members of the European Union. He was so determined that he nearly caused a diplomatic scandal with his determination. But then, in just a few hours, the change of attitude is clearly under the pressure of the European Union. It has now been discovered that Croatia's diplomacy in its desire to become a member of the European Union as soon as possible and under pressure from Italy and Slovenia has committed itself behind closed doors to Italian and Slovenian representatives not to activate their ZERP before the accession negotiations are completed. It thus bought their consent to open Croatian negotiations with the European Union, but one small thing was forgotten in the buy-in agreement. She forgot to agree on the same obligation for the opposite side. I wish in principle that our fishermen and our seas were protected. It forgot to agree that at least in principle Italy and Slovenia have the same obligations towards Croatia. Our fishing fleet is a mess we've heard on many occasions today. We don't have fish farmers. We don't have fishing ports, we don't have coast guard. Government representatives today say that budget rebalancing will change it, but if that was the intention, then I don't understand why the budget itself already didn't take care of it, and we were just at the SDP Club giving amendments that were, of course, rejected. In such conditions, in the true sense of the words of foreign fishermen, we served our Adriatic on a plate and said, "Here you go. This wealth belongs to you, and Croatian fishermen will be a little patient and wait for a better time." When these better times will come you do not know but I guess one day will come. Perhaps when we enter the European Union if, by then, for our fishermen in that sea, there is nothing left. That's why Prime Minister Sanader didn't come to the Parliament today because this is bad news for him and he wants to be the bearer of the good news. She leaves bad things to others. And let me get this straight. I believe that the activation of the ZERP for members of the European Union is the only real and comprehensive way to protect the interests of fishermen and Croatian national interests in the Adriatic. Unfortunately, the government has lost credibility both in front of the European Union and in front of Croatian fishermen and in front of the Croatian public. This government no longer has confidence in the defence of our arguments and views to activate the ZERP for members of the European Union, and I fear that this will be the main problem for future talks and negotiations and the main problem for the EU's relations with our next moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80455	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. He's gone. He's losing his word. Five-minute debate, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final consideration of the applicant. On behalf of the Government, Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80456	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes a decision to amend and supplement the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea in the text you received with the amendment made by the Government and included in the text. I would like to stress once again that this text of the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea protects the national interests of the fishermen who have stood by this decision, who have supported it once again, and I repeat the national interest of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union. I, too, declare on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we accept the proposal of the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the CNS with the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80457	On behalf of the promoter, the first respected representative of Markov, reported earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80458	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The final review in connection with this point that we have now well searched the eye that we have agreed to and disagreed on. About which we had common views, even if it was about political perception, which is of interest to us, but there is no way we can agree on the way that this same interest should be translated into being fully active. The old pain is repeated. We try to solve all our weaknesses by persistently confirming these same weaknesses. And instead of trying to find the answer and the rightdoer to those weaknesses, no matter who these weaknesses are spoken of and who suggested them, we keep repeating the same thesis that weaknesses should be denied as if they did not exist and always go the way that they will again encounter the same problems where we are, where we have been. In other words, we're spinning around in circles. Of course, it's not good for any policy. It's not good for the country. I initially said on behalf of the HSS Club that we would really be most pleased to find a political framework that, according to our citizens but above all to the international community, we would give a serious political response that would be a concentration of all the political parties in this Parliament that would serve to achieve our common national interests in the field of protection of our sea, this ecological fishing belt and thus to say a strong message that should be respected everywhere, including in Europe. And that message would be in Croatia there when it comes to national interests, common sense, intelligence, political credibility to do the right thing. I'm sorry it obviously won't come to that. The HSS Club will stay at its position or we will declare an ecological fishing belt now or we will not be able to support any other decision and no other proposal. Since Christmas is nearer, and Christmas is coming, and Christmas is the coming of peace and good me in that name I wish you all a Merry Christmas, that we may descend because God’s help is clearly needed because we ourselves cannot find the right political answer for all our problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80459	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80460	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Would you please calm these down in the assembly room? Dear gentlemen and from the Croatian government. At the end of this third parliamentary debate on the declaration of the economic belt, I do not have any choice but to call on behalf of the Croatian Economic Belt in the Adriatic Sea on behalf of the HSP Representatives Club. You have a proposal on that in your materials. And the reasons I'm going to state this time are the same ones we cited in 2003, 2004 and 2001. So we ask that Croatia declare and activate its economic belt, so that its application immediately begins in an ecological part that is not part of the European acquis, which is not part of the Acquis Comunitaire. If Croatia is a sovereign and independent state, then, in our court, it can and must implement its decisions on its own, which are not part of the European acquis. For these reasons, we believe that Croatia must now sow its determination and declare its economic belt and start its application in the ecological part. In fact, if it activates its environmental belt, it will only follow the already existing transplants that they have done for this reason, on the one hand, Italy, on the other hand, Finland as members of the European Union. Italy has done so in order to protect its part of the Adriatic from regular, sad, regular oil spills in the Adriatic. Croatia thus shows its responsibility for its half of the Adriatic, as I remind the economic belt is not just a question of fishing, it is also a matter of protecting the marine environment. On the other hand, the current application of the ecological part of the economic belt means that it becomes a fact used in negotiations with the European Union on fisheries. If we do not activate today's ecological part of the economic belt, we are actually negotiating something that does not exist for the European Union. We are actually negotiating something that will become a fact for the Union only maybe 2008. I must also mention here that the fact that no document of the European Union defends Croatia's right. On the one hand, because the ecological part of the economic belt is not part of the Acquis. On the other hand, because the 2003 Ministerial Conference on State Fisheries in the Mediterranean accepted that ZERP is treated as a precedent. For all these reasons, we call on the Croatian Parliament to support our proposal to declare the economic zone, the immediate activation of its ecological part, starting with negotiations on fisheries from about 6 months to the activation of its fishing section. So we're looking for the same thing we've been looking for all these years, what we've been looking for in 2001, 2003, 2004 and we're asking the Croatian government to show their determination this time. Since this is the last session in the pre-Christmas period on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSP I wish all of you respected colleagues and colleagues a happy Christmas and a happy New Year and a dear God help Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80461	Thank you. For the club, for that SDP and HSS decision-making proposal. There's no interest. Okay. Then a minister or a secretary of state. Who's going on behalf of the law? Minister Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80462	Dear ladies and gentlemen, as regards the amendments and additions to the Law of Control of the State Border of the Republic of Croatia at sea, I think we have clearly defined the position of the Croatian Government towards Croatian fishermen. And that I do not owe much on the amendments to the law itself, you saw that the law is in line with the current activities that the Republic of Croatia is carrying out over the entire border area of the Republic of Croatia. And so here, in the end, I will just say that we will continue to monitor the situation both with regard to the economy and with all the plans implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And accordingly, in legal regulations, allow our citizens to carry out their activities in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia uninterruptedly, especially when it comes to border areas of our country. As far as the amendments are concerned, we only had amendments to the Committee on the Law of the Republic of Croatia, and we can say in front of the ministry, before the promoters that these amendments are fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80463	Thank you. We've discussed everything. We should move to the vote of both these points and those discussed in the previous days. We've discussed everything. We should move to the vote of both these points and those discussed in the previous days. Let's get involved to determine... Please, let's get on with it. The result? 83. Okay. Let's get the other one on, extra. All right, please, let's get back online with the fort, 'cause some of them have arrived. Please turn yourself in, so don't... A colleague, there's a guy who, uh, turns on the two of you at the end. Turn yourself on! Now the result, now it is, yes. 85, good. So we're going in a row. A little attention to the sound of it. First, I will put on the vote of the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea where it is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Don't throw the papers, please, make the noise terrible! The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club and the HSLS Representatives' Club. In the name of the government, who's going to make themselves manifest? Minister Grabar Kitarovic on the amendment of SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80465	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80466	Give me a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80467	The government remains on the proposal to apply ZERP no later than 1 January 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80468	Who's going on behalf of the SDP club? Agent Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80469	So in the course of the debate so far, we have presented a whole series of valid arguments, which is why the SDP amendment has very real prospects for reconciliation, and in a better way those two national interests that we have spoken about, and therefore the club stays on the amendment and asks for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80470	Thank you. The president of the HDZ Club, representative of Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80471	I propose that, on the basis of Article 238. With regard to the amendments, we vote by raising our hands for a faster vote and more effective vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80472	Okay, you heard. To vote manually on amendments to all decisions. So here's what I'm putting to the vote for the amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives Club. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second amendment of the HSLS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80473	The amendment is not accepted. The Government also remains on the proposal for the application of the ZERP, no later than 1 January 2008, which means the content, the possibility of achieving the content of that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-15-0.u80474	The applicant of the amendment is not in the hall. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? I find that with 87 votes in favour and 18 against the decision to amend and supplement the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea is in the text as proposed by the Government. I am voting in favour of the conclusions proposed by the HNS Representatives' Club, which the government accepts. I am voting on the proposal for these conclusions. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes in favour, 13 abstentions and 2 against the proposed conclusions.
