ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59305	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. On the agenda is the debate - (a) Report on the work of the Management Board of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004, (b) List of companies from the portfolio of the institutions to which the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the list of companies held by the Institute in the capital fund d.d. In accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute submitted those acts. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session. The head of Mile Rukavin's office will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59306	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I would not give any broad explanation, we did exactly after the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament and provided an additional report on the work of the Governing Council of the Institute in accordance with the conclusion of 29 October 2005 and the list of companies from the portfolio of the institutions to which the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the list of companies held by the Institute in the capital fund, also according to the conclusion of 29 October. In the report on the work and business of the Croatian Institute for 2004 relating to the work of the Governing Council, we gave a presentation of the legal framework, meaning and competence regarding the administrative council. We have given a detour, a review of the tasks that the Council is dealing with, that is, the work, the powers and responsibilities of the Governing Council, as well as a review and a list of acts for the implementation of mandatory pension insurance by the administrative board of the institutions. Also in the text below is the review of the work of the Governing Council through the number of sessions and important tasks from the responsibility of the Administrative Council, and we believe that we have shown you all those activities that the Council was dealing with in 2004 and that you will be pleased with the report. We are also related to the list of companies listed the correct list of companies for the reporting period, meaning those to whom the Croatian Privatisation Fund is owned and which the institution has in the capital fund. It is the state according to business books of companies, according to the business books of institutions that are also in line with data from the Croatian Privatisation Fund. We did not specifically mention it here, but it says in the Work Report, so that there would be no confusion about the statement of nominal value in kunas, DEMs and euros, because certain companies did not comply with their own regulations, so we cited these amounts that were dem, i.e. DEM converted into euro. I don't think I have anything special to add, possibly to the questions you ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59307	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Stjepan Bačić, Club of HDZ Representatives. He's gone. The club loses its right to debate. ... You didn't sign up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] HNS Club, Honorable Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59308	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's to insisting on the HNS Club last time we adopted such a conclusion and asked for this today's report to be delivered to the Assembly for the simple reason that we read one sentence in the reports all the time and every year in the reports, which is "because the Croatian Privatisation Fund by the end of February" and it always wrote the same because it was transmitted from one report to another, "has not delivered the report on the state of the portfolio of the Institute on 31 December, the report was prepared according to HZMO data". I have some things to remind you, and it would be very good if this report included, and it wasn't, because this report was drawn up in the same way as the annual HZMO report where it mostly went copy, paste and everything that was in the last year was copied, and so in the same way this report came before us where there was actually nothing in that report. In this report we are familiar with their several sessions they held, we are not familiar with the situation that the Croatian Privatisation Fund has had their assets, how it has had, how they have made decisions, when they have made decisions, whether they have made decisions in accordance with the law or have made decisions just to bless some business that the Croatian Privatisation Fund has already done. I would like to remind myself of the way this fund came into existence in the first place, and why this fund was formed, although I expected it to be mentioned in that portfolio list how and how the sequence of events led to these amounts being mentioned in that report, how these 3.5 billion euros, 3.5 billion kuna, and started in 2000 with 3 billion and 760 billion marks. That's what was done by contract, but I'll get that contract later. In your time on the board of directors on 8 December 2004, you discussed the course and how your portfolio moved. And that's where you listed how and how you came into possession of it all and in what way and why this fund was actually formed. And among other things, the funds provided by the sale of shares, i.e. shares in companies and on the basis of the paid share of profits, can be used by funds to achieve the purpose for which they are established and to invest to increase the capital they have. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If we look at the audit report that has been carried out and how the exchanges between funds, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund and the Privatisation Fund have been made, we see that in these replacements that were called only replacements, it has gone through these replacements 3 billion and 843 million and when we look at what the task of these replacements was then says the Law. The provisions of the Privatisation Act do not contain provisions which explicitly give rise to the right of funds, pension and disability insurance to replace with other holders of shares and shares acquired under the provisions of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises. This was the period in which 3 billion and 800 million kuna were replaced from 94 to 2000. Everyone here in your report when you write about your portfolio, don't talk about it. Don't say a word about the state audit finding at the time being a disaster. The state audit report says that in some 18 points all the shares have been replaced and how such a fund has been devalued. Some shares have been changed several times just to reduce their value and then someone gets them for nothing at some point. I just want to read some of the audit results. The shares were replaced even though the replacement procedure was not governed by a special act. The replacements were carried out without a decision by the competent authorities, no assessment of the value of the shares received and given. The documentation does not reveal company business data whose shares are given or accepted in exchange. Before the contract was concluded, no evidence of ownership of the shares was originally obtained. The agreements were not marked by a regular number, therefore there was no evidence of the comprehensiveness of the records. The contract does not specify an act or regulation on the basis of which the replacement has been carried out. Who made the switch decision? The purpose of the replacement has not been defined, i.e. the documentation does not indicate what is the objective of carrying out the replacement. Replacements have not been made in the interest of pension and disability insurance funds and the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The contract on the replacement and transfer of shares was concluded between pension and disability insurance funds, i.e. the Croatian Pension Insurance Fund and the Croatian Fund did not contain a list of companies. Shares of companies in which there was a significant impact on shares of companies where there was no right to do so were also replaced. Gentlemen, the whole replacement from what the State Audit find was made against the law. It changed everything and everything for nothing so that it would come back to be worthless and eventually turn into nothing and give to someone else. There's not a word about it in your report. In the reasons given by the Croatian Privatisation Fund and by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, this is justified by the oral agreement. Because it's agreed, he says, verbally it's agreed to be given equally. And the paper shows that it wasn't given the same for the same, and we're not talking about breaking the law because it's clear exactly how it should be replaced, why and for what purpose. There's nothing about these things in your report. Now I want to know what you're in charge of. Why do you even exist? Do you only exist so that each of you would get 3,000 400 or I don't know how many kunas because he participates in the board. Because you don't have anything anymore. In 27.7.2000, you made a contract with the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the main objective of the contract is to ensure that the shares of HZMO are managed as efficiently as possible, to draw up a report on the values of shares and business shares and the objective of HZMO is to manage the portfolio in question permanently and successfully. That's why you made a contract with the Croatian Privatisation Fund. At certain times, one of those moments was made public, and I can still name Crikvenica and Platt, one of those contracts was the Bechtel issue. Your share in Bechtel is 19 percent. When Bechtel was donated, did anyone ask you if he was allowed to do it with your 19%? Did you, on the board of directors, decide that this may be handed over to someone on your behalf? And the contract says how you can break the contract, and why can you break the contract? Within the deadline, so you can break the contract at any time either you, any Croatian Privatisation Fund. And you are also in the contract, the Croatian Privatisation Fund has committed itself to providing HZMO with a half-yearly report. Did you get those reports? You didn't because your report didn't say you got it anywhere, and it wasn't in 2004 or 2003, ever. Because all your reports say that the Croatian Privatisation Fund has not filed a report. Why didn't you break the contract? Why didn't you break the contract if the contract wasn't respected? Why didn't you break the contract if it was damage to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute? There's a question of your existence at all. Did you give it or was it purposely done to devalue that fund? And now he's trying to strengthen this fund and that one part of your fund means one company that you started to take over and manage the pension fund. What happens to that fund if you're with what you've mastered so far? There is no shortage in your report that you have shown in your annual report of the Institute is missing from the 914 million kuna you are asking for from the Croatian Privatisation Fund. It's not here. In your report to the Governing Council, it does not say how you will fight to make it yours or be yours, and this deficit is shown and written in your report. Until December 31st, '99. Croatian Pension Insurance and the Croatian Privatisation Fund were often replaced by shares on the basis of signed contracts, and often only shares were transferred in favour of the Croatian Privatisation Fund or in favour of the Institute and always at nominal value. The results of such transfers are more allocated shares in favour of the Croatian Privatisation Fund of 232 million marks or 914,571 thousand kuna. There is nowhere in your report in which you intend to come into possession of it, and nowhere in your report is there to do business in the Bizovačka spas where you own 94 or 99%. Business spas are your property gentlemen, you should take care of it in the manner of a good businessman, also Crikvenica, also Platt and everything else where you are almost 90% of the property. In your report, not a word about what you have done, how you have done, what you have done, and how you take care of the Bizobe spas. If you don't know how to take care of the spas and all your other assets sell out and put on the market that someone buys it and that they master it with it in a normal way anyway. This way, since the initial state is actually unknown, it was 30% of the total privatisation, the initial state has not been known since '94. There is no condition until 2000. You're the first condition that's been defined, it's been defined in 2000 when there's actually something written and there's been such a record ever since, and until then there's no record. Everything's been done to that famous mother of ours, we'll make a deal. There is no such thing in your report, and I cannot accept at all that this House accepts as some kind of report. I know you don't have to file a report to the Parliament, you file a report to the government, the government founded you, but you are sitting on that Supervisory Board for 3,000 and something kuna and it would be right to take care of those assets that the Croatian people have entrusted you with.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59309	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59310	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Kapraljevic, who said this report is done by copyright-pass technology, which is not true, because if it hadn't been for the conclusion of the 17th session of the Croatian Parliament since 29 November 2005 we would not have discussed this today because this is not the usual report that is being prepared every year for the Croatian Parliament, so I ask him not to reduce the reach of his conclusion that precisely those in HNS have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59311	Thank you. Honorable representative Ljubica Lalic, club representative of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59312	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues. So today in March 2006 to discuss the Report of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2004 seems deplaced. However, this debate was concluded on the basis of the Croatian Parliament's conclusion on 29 October 2005 following the discussion of the 2004 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Despite the adoption of the report, the Parliament had a need8 to discuss in more detail the work of the HZMO Governance Council. Why the Board of Directors? In view of the fact that the Office is managed by the Administrative Board, it shall adopt general acts implementing the Pension Insurance Act and internal control of the conduct of the activities of the Pension and Legal Services Office of the Institute shall decide on the prior consent of the Director of the Institute for the acquisition, loading or alienation of property, on the use of the funds realised by the operations of legal persons established by the Office, etc. The rapporteur says that the attention of the Governing Council in 2004 focused on the issue of the activities of the Institute in a narrow sense and on the problem of the Office's portfolio. The reason for the proposal and the conclusion is in the assessment of the need for MPs to learn more about what is going on with the shares and shares in companies that are in the portfolio of the Institute. This is why a list of companies in which the Institute has shares and shares was requested. We are interested in how the masters with the shares and shares assigned to the Institute under the Privatisation Act. In the distribution of shares that belonged to two-thirds of the shares or shares belonged to the Croatian Privatisation Fund and one-third to pension funds. The legislator's intention was to manage those shares and shares with a good master's mara in order to co-finance the pension insurance system through the revenues derived from the right. It was based on the assigned shares of the Institute that the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board intended for the role and task of monitoring the business of the company, as well as the work of the administration and the chairman of the administration. One good intention was to turn the lack of responsibility, above all, the lack of responsibility of politics and its behaviours, into a nakarada, and for pensioners, a harmful practice that resulted in a fracture of the Croatian economy. For his representatives, the Bureau appointed members who almost regularly did not represent the interests of the Institute, i.e. Retired. Most often they protected the interests of the stockholders and the shares under whose conductor stick the companies ended up in bankruptcy, and the Institute lost the law assigned to him to participate in ownership. It was not negligence and irresponsibility that was manifested only through the relationship of members of the Supervisory Board to the property entrusted to them but also through the conduct of the institution itself whose bodies, under the authority of political powers of that time, made decisions to replace their valuable shares for others' worthless. And not just that. In accordance with today's policy, the Institute has concluded with individuals contracts for the acquisition of entire shares that should have been paid over twenty years. The management and ownership rights to acquirers shall be transferred immediately from the date of conclusion of the contract. The Institute did not monitor whether the payment was done neatly, the audit revealed that the shares had not been paid off for years and then, by sucking up capital, the company became worthless shares by breaking the contract returned to the institution, of course worthless. By receiving back the worthless shares of the Institute, he even returned the funds to the acquirers that were paid to him in the name of the shares paid. These aren't guesses. This is the report from the State Audit that examined the legality of the privatisation of companies. I agree that the law has been regulated to transfer ownership and management rights to the acquirers through the conclusion of the contract but the law did not allow the non-payment of the purchase. Even it was found that the three-month absence of payment was the reason for the termination of the contract. Such breakups never happened. The Bureau also forgot about its assets and incomes that should be derived from it, but they were made rich by individuals. This particular experience, which is not the result of speculation, was unquestionably identified as the reason for the conclusion that this debate is now taking place. The Management Council's report did not provide any further information on the management of shares and shares. This information was received in the report on the business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004 and there we read that the administrative council on the decision-making of the primary decisions with the proposals of the Croatian Privatisation Fund considered with continued warnings that the sale decisions should not be made until the government of the Republic of Croatia and the pensioners have realised an agreement on how to repay or repay the debt to pensioners. However, the council still allowed the sale of what it said to prevent privatisation processes. Therefore, neither now nor more precisely in 2004 the Council primarily protected the interests of the institutions or pensioners. It protected the government's political stances regardless of how it reflects the interests of not only the present but also future pensioners. The reporter even admits it when he says so. Despite the principle position of the Administrative Council, however, on the basis of the request of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, some concrete decisions have been made. Thus it decided to give consent to the director of the office for the sale of shares of the port from Split, Željezara Split, Agro-lagoune from Poreč, Sladorana from Zupa, etc. Why is it so important that it is a request from the Croatian Privatisation Fund? The head of the office says shares in the portfolio of the office are managed by the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Yes, but the Croatian Privatisation Fund has no autonomy in its management. He's in charge of the contract between the Institute and the Fund. By law, the sale consent must be given by the Administrative Council and it may refuse to give consent. The decision must be consistent with the interests of those represented by the Institute. Unfortunately, we don't even know today whether the Institute knows which and what kind of capital companies have shares and shares. We remember reports that made it clear and loud that the Institute has no accurate records of the companies in which there are shares, and this report also says that the transfer of the portfolio to the Croatian Privatisation Fund lasted relatively long, primarily because of the non-compliance of the data, but also because of the continued complementarity with the Croatian Privatisation Fund data. The Bureau has provided us with a list of companies that should give a picture of what the Bureau has to offer. The list also contains an indication of the nominal value of the shares. The total nominal value of the shares is 2.95 billion kuna and 170 million 841,486 marks or converted into euro 87 million 349,865 euros. Well, judging by the nominal value, it's not exactly a small value. If so, there are funds for raising pensions, so-called pensions. New pensioners. But does this list give us a real picture? Certainly not. The nominal value differs significantly from the actual value. The nominal value is often exaggerated and the actual value is insignificant. This depends on the performance of the company's business and according to the list it appears to be companies where only losses are accumulated. Of course, honor the exceptions. In addition, this list includes companies that ended up in bankruptcy long ago and ceased ownership of shares and shares. There's an impression that the office owns a ticket tower. It would be good to finally stop fooling ourselves with some unrealistic values. It is time for the future and present pensioners, regardless of what politics or holders of political power suggest, to be mastered with what is worthy. If it is to be judged by what we are informed of the means of public communication, such as the Agro-lagoon case, Sladorana, Liburnia, then obviously the habits in the management have not changed and the Institute allows that the Croatian Privatisation Fund is the owners of its assets in the way it did during the time when 600 thousand workers were left without a job for privatisation and only the capital of the privatised companies was reduced by 4 billion marks in all 51% of the revised privatisation and conversion of companies into former social property.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59313	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59314	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues reading this report on the work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2004 gave me the impression that it could have been shorter. Let's just say it could have been written, we did everything the law says, and what are you asking us here to explain the details to you? It is a report that gives us no opportunity to assess the work of the Governing Council either positive or negative. Personally, I would not have dared to assess whether the Administrative Council was doing its job and the law of certain matters in a good or bad way? Did they execute what they were delegated there as representatives of important institutions or not? This is simply seen from the simple listing of the work of authority and responsibility, and then from a summary, declarative statement of what does not speak in any way about the metricity of the decisions made thereon. To say that the financial plan of the Institute has been adopted, and do not say anything about the plan, or that the application "Bryunka" d.d. has been considered. Pula with regard to the claim is then beaten and so forth, and not to say anything about the measure of this matter does not simply give us material so that we can make any excess judgment on the value of the decisions they have made, including the State Audit Office report, where we also do not know whether they are in their responsibilities or not? However, I certainly should skip commenting on each of these individuals only by the number of jobs that the Bureau has done, which were simply facts or subjects of the agenda. It is much more interesting to see why we did not get the most important part in me work of the Administrative Council, why we did not get a higher report on how it was managed with the portfolio of the Institute when it comes to Croatian Pension Insurance and Croatian and HMID, the Croatian Pension Investment Fund. The report decidedly says that the Administrative Council discussed primarily the issue, and when it comes to the portfolio regarding the Croatian Privatisation Fund's proposals. It has repeatedly warned that the sale decisions should not be taken until the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the creditors on the way in which the debt is recovered, since the compensation is provided for through a specific fund which would be entered into by public companies of state property. Now the question can be raised here, given that it is said behind this that despite these warnings that they made concrete decisions in the Governing Council and thus gave consent to the Director for the Sale of Shares of Split, Željezare Split,... Sales of the shares of Istria Pula, as well as the sale of public auctions on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the public tender of Agrolaguna... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , Sladorane County, Belvederea Dubrovnik, Brno Smokvice, Hotel Omisalj, P.P. Nutcracker, Podgora Hotel, Živognosti and so on and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In principle, I would not challenge them either this right or the decision to grant the Croatian Privatisation Fund that kind of approval. Why? So the first thing that is truly doubtful is really doubtful whether shares in the Croatian Pension Insurance portfolio should be used to repay the debt? If debt returns apply to 240 people in retirement, and Croatian pension insurance is here a fund of all pensioners why would it settle down, why would they settle down from that portfolio and get money to pay off the debt? I don't see that kind of thing I'd say here a supposed natural connection or natural reasons for that. It's about pensioners, so you can do it that way. In any event, part of the debt or debt refund may be alimentated from that portfolio, but in any event for all. A team more and a team before, because in Croatia we have a situation that 660 thousand pensioners are at this moment and it is mainly about new pensioners, those from 1999 to today whose pensions are below 1600 kuna. And they're the only real problem in, the only real one, they're not really the only ones, but in any case, it's the real problem when it comes to pensioners and the retirement population. We certainly face the problem of how to ensure the increase of these lowest pensions? In addition to having to make quite certain serious adjustments in existing laws, it is quite safe and certain that more money will have to be found. If the whole story comes down to meeting one promise made under, as far as I'm concerned by very suspicious conditions and it's about repaying debt and the possibilities to ensure, to secure the money needed for the first 4 wars, then quite certainly the warnings of this guy have a lot, they make their full sense. Another problem is very important here. This report has no value and because we do not have any regrets since 2000, since 2000 the Croatian Privatisation Fund's report and their way of making and managing a portfolio that was allocated to them by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. That's a crucial question. As long as we don't know how and how the Croatian Privatisation Fund cares about his trusted portfolio that he mastered with it we actually have nothing to talk about. The situation we had in the early 1990s remind me of perhaps why it was decided to give care to the Croatian Privatisation Fund, why it was made. Well, because that portfolio of the Peace Fund was actually a big self-service. It was entered as needed, taken as needed, returned as needed, exchanged and systematically destroyed, in fact, by a fund and property belonging to the pensioners. In order to prevent this story, but also because of the simplicity of the job, a simple agreement was made in which the Croatian Privatisation Fund was certainly not without agreement, with a certain fee, the technical part of the job should be carried out. In fact, they were supposed to be their own brokers for Croatian pension insurance. They should have said what was best done because the portfolio we inherited in 2000 amounted to about 1380 companies in which Croatian pension insurance had shares below zero percent, which were actually just a burden, and no real value. The point was to get that Croatian pension insurance portfolio around, to get to quality shares, to be 10 or 20, but to know that it is Croatia's insurance, but to know that it is something in Telekom, Janaf is mentioned etc. It was the purpose of this operation that the Croatian Privatisation Fund was to perform for HMO. But what was actually happening to us until today we don't know. It's completely hidden from the public. The same applies to this HVID report, and I think this might be a good reason to ask a question with the addition of another pension fund, this pension fund, this pension fund, whether we've gone too far with the funds that actually go a little too far, and the one for the defenders who move a little bit from hollow to empty and who actually operate with a long-lost, non-existent or destroyed asset that doesn't have real value. I think it requires a systematic approach and that it is partially on the boards of this or that of the institution or within the funds simply cannot be solved. As a state, we don't have a systematic approach and we don't really know how we're going to get out of a situation where citizens, defenders, workers, pensioners, etc. It promised to share in something that was actually not for real, and especially not in that scope as read from these lists. Here, I simply believe that this report cannot be accepted because it does not provide any basis for us to conclude the work of the board of directors. It is simply a poorly written report and as such is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59315	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59316	Dear counterpart Vidovic said several incorrect allegations. I'll try the telegraph. He said HZMO and HMID's portfolio was designed to pay back the pensioners, which is simply not true. There's no such decision that's been reserved to pay back the pensioners at least for the time being. Second. Mr. Vidovic said we don't know how HZMO ran the portfolio. If the former minister doesn't know, then who in Croatia knows. Second. Property, said Mr. Vidovic, that the property belongs to the pensioners. The assets of HZMO belong to the original beneficiaries of pensions and insurance, so not only to pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59317	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The debate on this report on the work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which comes at the request of the Parliament, is a waste of time. This is simply not a document that could be discussed seriously. From these poor six papers, nine papers can't read anything. It is 9 clean-form papers that prescribe legal provisions, which is the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The first page says that the Institute is a public institution, has public powers in resolving pension insurance rights and obligations. This report does not say anything about the fact that it is the law but that it is not in practice. Because, you see, there's a procedure under way to compensate the pensioners under the law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. The pensioners received a notice of HPB investment of the amount of their compensation from which they cannot in any way see which formula it is and how they calculate their amount of compensation. This notice is not an administrative act that pensioners also received on that notice, which has approximately the legal power to inform them that a movie is being screened somewhere in the Vinkovci cinema. They have no right to appeal or to invest any legal remedy. When these pensioners are unsatisfactory with the amount of compensation they have been informed of the instructions to pensioners, then they get an answer from the Pension Insurance Office, but again the notice that they are well accounted for and that they have nothing to object to. And that other notice, so the Pension Insurance Office doesn't send the pensioners an administrative act but a notice. Although the body is with public authority, because although it must communicate legally with the pensioners, it does. with the citizens of this country under the Administrative Procedure Act to which this report is called. If the pensioners dare to ask the Bureau for a solution to the amount of compensation, then the Bureau will answer them to the conclusion that it is not competent. My lords, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office declares itself incompetent to handle the administrative procedure, the legal procedure laid down on the material rights of the pensioners. It's something unheard of. In this report, about how you treat pensioners, how you don't give them solutions, the administrations of acts to which you can lodge complaints in this report don't say a word. You are, however, saying something about the compensation procedure, on page 7, of your report, when you say that the administrative council has been considering, with continued warnings that sales decisions should not be made until the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and pensioners on the way of compensation, or the repayment of debt, is realised, that no decision should be taken on the sale of the portfolio. First of all, you don't write, you don't say whose constant warnings they are. Who keeps warning you not to sell portfolios? You didn't write that. And secondly, despite these continuous warnings, you did do it without explaining why you did it. Whether or not the pensioner's compensation will be financed from this portfolio or not, I don't know. Mr. Hrelja says he won't, because that's not the way it's supposed to be. Maybe he's right. It's very likely he's right. You don't even write here what the first war that comes at six months will come back from. The prime minister publicly said there was no money in the budget. We've brought the budget here, and there really isn't any money, there's a prime minister right. He says he should sell THT in order to raise money for at least the first war of the 6th month. It's a procedure that doesn't go so fast. We're already here in half the third month. Will the government be able to sell THT by 6 months? Maybe she will, if she doesn't do it in a legitimate and transparent way, i.e. if it hastily at a telephone session, as it has been common to work lately, does not make such a decision to sell THT. Otherwise, the money for the return of the first war is no compensation, and the Administrative Council of the Institute doesn't care what they care about. It's like he has to do this, I don't know, hydrometeorological services. More important business in the management council's jurisdiction. It is said this: "The most common topics were the financing and financial operations of the Institute, then the systemic issues of pension insurance.". So let's see what you've been dealing with these systemic issues of pension insurance. Here, you've listed them. Redesign and organisational changes to the Institute, projects related to improving the business of the Institute, implementation of regulations relating to pension insurance, the work of the professional service on insurance rights resolution, the public work of the Institute, maintenance and further development of the Information System of the Institute, staff policy and human resources in the Institute. These are your systemic pension insurance issues. 600 thousand pensioners, those who retired after 1 January 1999 today for the same job and for the same salary have 400, 500 kuna less pensions than those who left before that date. But that's not a systematic question for you, you're dealing with staff issues at the Bureau, which is a systematic question for you, and further informing the Bureau whether you're going to buy two more computers or three laptops. That's a systematic question for you. About how to resolve the question of new pensioners, their pensions that today fell below 1,000 kuna for them. And a thousand 600 kunas to you according to the standards of the European Union, in which we thank God we are going to the poverty line. 600,000 of our fellow citizens are below the poverty line. That's certainly not a systematic question for you. You certainly didn't do it. And what you'd like to do, I assume you're sitting in that board to receive a membership fee in that board, not to address the question of the pensioners. This is a shameful, scandalous document that needs to be rejected with indignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59319	Replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59320	Mr. President, I will not and do not wish to replicate my distinguished colleague, Stazic, on the content of his presentation, since he has opened up current topics and dilemmas that plague most Croatian citizens. I would just like to underline that it is known that the obligation to reimburse pensioners is an obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a debtor, and that was the former Government. So no one in this story is excluded. Secondly, I just have to warn you that this report could not have talked about all these topics that you mentioned for a purely reason because this report was for 2004 after the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. I'm not amnesting anyone. I'm just distracting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59321	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59322	Look, only the report passes in 2004. Right on page 7 I was quoting, he's talking about paying back the pensioners. That's the problem he's treating, which I think is good. The only thing that's wrong with not saying anything about important things, about the metrics, is writing all the crap that nobody really cares about and doesn't make sense to discuss. Technically, you're right. What does it mean when we write about 2004 we talk about paying back the pensioners' debt? No, of course it doesn't make sense. But the board still talked about it, only in an extremely unworthy way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59323	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59324	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. The work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pensions Institute is certainly of particular importance, given the importance of the management system, which is one of the most important systems with HZZO. We're reading data that these two systems are missing 17 billion a year. This is the ratio of funds paid for these purposes and needs, which tells how much HZZ, Croatian Institute of Pensions is important for the economic growth and development of society, and the social security of the individual and his family. There is also a need to add a share to the companies. Croatia inherited a pension system with a high level of rights with unfavourable movements in the economy. The war, from the budget, stands out from 10 billion to 11 billion a year for the consequences of the war, a transition from socialist to market economy. We read that the administrative council held seven sessions with 85 points, there were sessions with one or three points, but with 16 and 29 which could affect the quality of decisions taken. The report also addresses the difficulties of the rehabilitation institution, the professional rehabilitation of the employment of people with disabilities. A souvenir from Sirac is mentioned in a description of a 285 thousand loan, which is not a larger amount if it helped. I particularly support any kind of co-financing assistance and other aspects in order to strengthen existing institutions and businesses, but also to establish new ones and to make sure that they do more work. It is the Council that is informed and working disputes related to unpaid fees, for food costs from 1 May to 5 April 2002. There were a thousand and 300, it was good to agree that the first-degree rulings were not complained, and that the remaining labour disputes with workers were wage differences, annual leave fees, etc. Try to settle with a settlement which is certainly cheaper, but there's no amount at all, that relationship was 1:3 in the '90s. The Board of Directors has also decided to give consent to the Director of the Office for the Sale of Shares. A list of companies, including Sladorana Zupanja, is also listed. The administrative board provided a list of companies from the portfolio of the Croatian Pensions Institute, to which it manages the Croatian Privatisation Fund, as well as a list of companies held by the Institute in the capital fund d.d., and according to the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 29 October 2005 the report was made on 30 December 2004. The truth is that these were pension insurance reports as well as the board of directors for 2004, and we don't have the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59325	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59326	He just dropped his colleague Mlinarić, of course, in his exhaustive report... a modern approach by the director of the Institute in its report, where what should be said and repeatedly repeated that the administrative council has also made decisions on pension coordination, very important for all those who are retired and who expect a further approach as well as in what way modern approach to solve our entire problem and for us young people if we do not have pensions, our parents will need to help them. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59327	Second replica, Honored Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59328	My colleagues, Mlinarich. He wonderfully told everything, read in fact what they discussed, but he put an emphasis in the report on... The orphans where 285,000 kuna is concerned, and all that they listed in one sentence, in one single sentence where the hotel Omisalj, Brnovo, Smokvica, PP Orahovica, Hotel Živogosce, Lumbarda, and so in turn that I don't list all these hotels, it's all listed in one sentence. There is no reason, nor how much of this has been achieved for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Nothing, not a word, just listed in one sentence. And this is written in seven sentences. These amounts were to be written at least as many 9 pages as this entire report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59329	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. He's also losing his right to say a word. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59330	Mr. President, this report that we have received here on the work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is definitely not what we expected and why this Parliament launched the initiative to put this item on the agenda. It's neatly talked about how many sessions were held, how great a table, how many were present, what were the number of agenda points, and then the jobs of 200 thousand are referred to as solving major problems. The Administrative Council dealt with the Labour Position Regulations, which, of course, should be done in the decision of establishment, the Institute Award, etc. all this needs to be done, however, are all relevant things that actually talk about the functioning of the office and the board of directors. However, there are papers that say a lot about what happened with the pension fund and the portfolio from the privatisation father in Croatia and beyond. It started with one-third of the total economy under the Privatisation Act, one-third of the Croatian economy ended up in a pension fund. It ended with 3 billion 760 million kunas and a billion marks in 2000, although it shouldn't have been counted in stamps, but when all that was converted and summed up, that's 10 billion kuna around. If that ratio remained what it was at the beginning, it would mean that the Croatian economy is worth about 30 billion kuna. I sincerely hope you do that to her like that. And as far as we're concerned, all of us who have made such decisions have made such decisions that these differences in numbers should not be calculated much... We're not worth much, we're certainly not worth this much. [[You don't understand.]] The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute actually concluded a good deal in 27.7.2000 with the Croatian Privatisation Fund. It's got a great writing in it. The Croatian Privatisation Fund guarantees, and it is a respected firm that has been able to do what it did knowingly and successfully from 990 to 2000. The Fund therefore guarantees that it has organisational and professional capacity to carry out its tasks. Article 3 says it will not hold shares without the consent of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. At least we've never seen them here, the Croatian Privatisation Service has had those shares as he thought necessary. He also writes that he will take care of the interests of the Pension Insurance Office and manage it. As far as he was concerned, it was seen from the State Auditor's report, as shown in the way, and by the figures shown after that management. The Croatian Privatisation Institute has also committed itself to giving a half-yearly report, drawing up a stock management strategy and similar documents of course not available. However, it also says that certain management affairs and alienated shares can also be entrusted to a third party, quotes, when necessary. Well, when it's necessary, they decide for themselves, and they decide when it's necessary. For this they get 1% of the cost, and the cost decreases the value of the pension insurance portfolio. Therefore, out of 1/3 of the economy came to 10 billion kuna, and as amended, the report also states, among other things, that the replacements, the public collection of offers, that the original evidence of ownership was not declared before the conclusion of the contract, that the swap agreements contained a list of shares, but that the total values did not correspond, were not harmonised and so on. That list is all over the page. Therefore, in a bunch of arguments it can be proved that the procedure was arbitrary, politically motivated, and in no way motivated by the interests of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Obviously, the Fund has said nicely that there are no objections to the findings. So these findings are simply a fact. It also shows that the absurdity in the fact that shares are acquired on the basis of several swap agreements and when the equity share has reached a certain size in the total capital, they are replaced by others. To repurchase these same first shares, but so that this share is small again and in fact insignificant. Apparently, the one who ran the stock of the fund made an extraordinary effort to keep the fund from having any influence. Now we've come to a situation where new pensioners, these after 1999, retire with numbers that are hard to read, let alone imagine how people live with that money. And they've worked their whole lives, 40 years. 40 years, 40 years, 1, 2, 3, 4 to 40. For 40 years, they paid some kind of money hoping to have a peaceful age, especially in the hope of a free, independent, independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia that their country, which they had dreamed of, would take care of their peaceful age. That's how she took care of it. The money went somewhere, the privatisation was done as it was carried out. A third of the state economy is 10 billion kuna, they have a thousand 500 kuna pensions. Now, who's to blame? I don't know if these people were writing a report, but their guilt is there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59331	Thank you. In 10 and 34, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59332	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like you to meet Mr. MPs. So here's when in these reports of the work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, a man sees what companies are actually talking about, it's just a small matter, he's getting angry. I am not going to talk about the exchanges of shares that Mr. Kapraljevic spoke about more about and the principle of "all for nothing" than to mention that today the nominal value of this portfolio is 2 billion 949 million 134 thousand 812 kuna. So, about three billion kuna. But all together, it's almost worth nothing. Honor the exceptions. For example, Ploče ports, there is a share of institutions of 16.84%, Split port 6.11%), Pula Uljanik 11.61%. But what happens if this company goes to privatisation on another occasion, etc. Someone will say there are other interesting companies here in this report. For example, in 2005, Pliva Zagreb, which, if I am not mistaken, achieved a loss of $75 million or $65 million, but it is certainly a valuable portfolio of the Croatian Institute. There is an ironworks Split, which is in bankruptcy so that 26.33% doubt that it is worth 35.7 million kuna. It would rather be that the state would be happy to sell Split for at least one kuna on condition that someone guarantees its survival on the market, i.e. to take over and settle the obligations that are certainly measured in hundreds of millions of kunas. There is also 40.12% of the Vesnika Zagreb whose share is estimated at 45.5 million kuna, and really if we exclude the printer the question of how much that name is worth. It is, however, a newspaper that has dragged many of us into politics in the 1980s. And it's clear that this paper needs to be preserved. That name should be kept. That name is just worth it, it's a real value, not now thinking about the printer trade. Normally, the more service she gets to power, the more charge she's gonna get. It seems to be the most valuable of tourism companies to be held bankrupt or bankrupt. Paradoxically, but no, but that's true. This is practically the only valuable portfolio of this office. What's in bankruptcy. Adriatic d.d. 55.35%, now coming out of bankruptcy, but most valuable is sold. For example, Schimci... therapy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imperial Rab 30.28% out of bankruptcy. Belvedere Dubrovnik 9.95%, Živogosce 21.36%, Podgora hotels, Plat Dubrovnik hotels, Omisalj hotels, Medena Seget donji hotels, etc. The mountain of these hotels is on the Adriatic. You used to have hotels that were simply the backbone of coastal development. In the '90s, because of known war circumstances, they barely vegetationd. Unfortunately, it's not much better today. The fact is, however, one thing that this fund or this institution can't run these systems, and as they led Opatija, or Liburni from Opatija, I think we all saw. However, without investment in these systems, they are dead capital, but there is a paradox, for example. For a golf course costing 80 million kunas should pay the state and local community 265 million kuna, and then the question is who will come to this country at all, invest, etc. Which, unfortunately, is our future if we keep it that way. We will work out this hotel portfolio, hotel by hotel so that workers can sell wages, to pay the profession, to pay for water, and the best example is just "Adriatic" from Crikvenica, or "Liburnia" from Opatija, where 100 hotels over 50 have been sold, not by government, but by this Institute, or local self-government. The best-seller hotels were sold, so what was once the core of society, and how the rest will function the next day remains to be seen. As for the structure of the capital fund, that's certainly fine. The offerings we see are neat, invested safely, whether it's about... , Lufthansa etc., however, the stakes here are minor, 0.001% or 0.002%, in Croatia insurance is at 1.15%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I purposely mention it for the reason that it is a society in some way capitalized for the return of property to the church, i.e. large Croatian companies from e.g. Todoric's Agrokora, Podravka, TDR and so on. Interestingly, the fund also has 34.56% stakes in Liburnia Riviera hotels or 8.77% in Istria Tourist from Umag, but more significant shares I said there are in hotels "Baška Voda", "Makarska", "Concaru", "Tanker Commercu", "Zadar" 9.73% etc. So this hotel sector should recognise it in this fund is relatively well represented, but the contributions from the hotel sector are actually minimal if there are any, almost dead capital here. Now, if that's what's going to happen, and that's the essential question that's going to be used to pay the pensioners back. Of course not. The state will have to sell its most valuable portfolio, its most valuable company, HT, INA, under allegations of debt or damage to pensioners, perhaps Croatia's insurance so that I can access debt returns to pensioners. Without repaying the pensioners, however, the government cannot go to the polls, but the 6th month is about to arrive, and no one knows at what stage HT privatisation is under consideration or, say, the INA. I personally believe that it would have been far better if the Parliament had accepted the IDS debt returns proposal through the bonds, because the benefits of these most valuable Croatian monopolies would have created the possibility of channelling funds into debt recovery, while on the other hand preserving the clear structure of these companies. The question is clear, and to whom will they be sold as such, I suppose the mole, Deutsche Telekom, etc. But today we are obviously gentlemen where we are, the Reimbursement Act is in some way also a law on the total sale of the Republic of Croatia, but bearing in mind that 420 thousand pensioners, including my parents, are primarily thinking about how to repay their debt or to deprive them of their full rights, it is clear that none of them are managed by the fate of these companies, nor is it their obligation, nor must they be burdened with it. For the end of the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, we will all agree here, is extremely thin. Why is that? Because the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute there in the 1990s was the main lever of privatisation in the Republic of Croatia, they created empires and one... and the Kutle, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he created the largest Croatian tycoons as such or as the institution. Of course... these assets have failed, what is now returned to the fund de facto is almost worthless and we'll actually see how this is going to be with that office etc. to develop in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, no one answered clearly for all of this, today we are where we are, without jobs, with companies in bankruptcy of which the sole benefit are the bankrupt clear managers with super-rich individuals who actually put the substance of these companies safe and also with super-insured funds. What to do today with these two reports in the work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Institute, i.e. the list of trading companies from the portfolio? They should be brought to their attention in some way, but what concerns me most is the fate of Liburnia from Opatija the next day after the separation of the affairs of Darka Osto and Count Elfs where Count Elfs kept the complete tourist portfolio from the "Lagoon" from Novigrad, "Riviere" Poreč, "The Baby regiment", companies in Rab, Rabac... , hotels in Hvar, and Darko Osto is now asking the state for over a billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to believe that local self-government will reach 25%, at least plus one share, and that workers in all this will not be cut off.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59333	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59334	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The question is, what do we even report, whether we're looking for reports to read historical data, whether to force someone to write those reports there, to analyze, to do some work, or to do those reports, have some other purpose, some other purpose? I realized that it was the conclusion of this House to deliver these two reports to us, so the work of the Governing Council and the state of portfolio in one day, at one point, and that is the end of 2004 to see or to see what would be in the future, which will be in 2005, so in 2005, when the conclusion was reached, or what would be in 2006. Not to convince us as advocates, but to be able to tell our pensioners what security is or what the prospects are to increase their pensions in the future, what the chances of new pensioners being brought to the level of old pensioners. What will happen to the share of pensions in the state budget? Whether pensions will continue to depend solely on the state budget or will finally start to depend or grow, their growth will also be affected by the strong ownership that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has received in the process of conversion. Now, what did we end up getting? And one more thing, this report was supposed to give us some kind of answer to a key question that we currently have in public, which is what will happen with the compensation fund, how it will be managed, whether it will be managed so well that we really have the certainty that the pensioners will be paid off by those who have decided to pay faster in two years and those who are not in eight years. Will there be enough money for that? Whether we're just going to sell out the property or we're going to manage the companies that get into that fund's portfolio so well that we're paying off from a capital increase or God forbid dividends. Now, what did we get here? We have indeed received a fully formal report that fully corresponds to the conclusion. Yes, we wrote to you exactly what companies we had in our portfolio in 31.12.2004 and we exactly wrote and counted what we were doing in 2004. Such a report would not pass on any of the supervisory boards of any of the companies listed here, or on any of the supervisory boards of any of the companies located in the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. What I expected was that we would get at least market capitalisation of portfolios I expected, however, to be shown which was the highest, which was the lowest price, which was the average price in 2004, which was the volume of trade in those shares in 2004. That's why the report was asked to see what happened to the dividends. If we had managed to charge dividends from these companies in 2004, or today we are far away in 2006. It could be written whether we charged dividends for 2004, whether we were able to make money to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute from that large portfolio so that we could increase people's pensions. What we don't have here in the report how much it cost to manage that fund, how much the cost of the capital fund, what, who represents the Croatian Pension Insurance and Capital Fund in the supervisory boards of these companies, how much their incomes are. I assure you that the higher incomes with the basis of membership in the Supervisory Board are people sitting on the Supervisory Board than the Croatian Pensions Insurance Office earns from dividends and other property rights in these companies. And that's a tragedy. The point of the conversion, or the Law on Conversion, was that part of the ownership really went to the Pension Insurance Office and that it created a quantity of property that would be well managed to reduce the share of pensions in the state budget and that pensions could grow from the management of that portfolio, from the fact that we would trade well in shares and because these companies that we would manage will pay dividends. On the contrary, we have not to have that information but to see how many companies went into bankruptcy managed by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. So in this report, at least if someone is responsible for going bankrupt, that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has failed to collect claims from companies in bankruptcy that it itself managed, because we also have companies that are almost 100% owned by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute or the Capital Fund. Not to mention what my colleagues were talking about before me about trading shares, about going to deals, agreements, going to nominal prices when the market price was significantly higher, being sold in one way, shopping in another way, etc. I'm afraid, I fear for what our pensioners expect will happen from the compensation fund. Because if we've managed to fund the Pension Insurance Office from 93 to 2004 it's aware of what we got in this paper and that paper is saying that the total portfolio right now. Unfortunately, we don't have market capitalisation for what you've transferred to the Privatisation Fund, but if we add up here, the market capitalisation of the share in the capital fund and the nominal value of the portfolio we put into the Privatisation Fund is about 4 billion or 3.5 billion. It's practically on a level of two pensions, and not two months' pensions, it's not if we sold it all. And we have to pay the pensioners 17 billion back. Not only pay off normally 28 billion this year, but also in the next eight years and pay back 17 billion. So who gives this assurance to citizens and pensioners that this fund will be managed in a way that provides these 17 billion and preserves the ownership of the Republic of Croatia if we can bring the whole story to light on what we have in this paper. If we don't even know how much was broken in one year, if we don't know how much market capitalisation was in that year 2004 without talking because the report came to the Croatian Parliament on 31 January that it was very correct from the Governing Council to list us and the state of those shares on the date of 31.12.2005. This was not requested by the Assembly but it is possible that since this correctional exam was for the administrative council, perhaps the administrative council could have made one gesture towards this Croatian Parliament and given the state of the portfolio on 31.12.2005, so let's see what happened in that year. Let's see if really if we have any objections to what happened by 2004 whether the situation in 2005, or if we're going to discuss what happened with the portfolio in 2005. So today, several times in one day, shares of companies owned by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and not that we talk about historical data. Not only that, it would be good if the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute also provided indicators of the efficiency of the work of the companies in which we have the stakes. That he gave us a portfolio management strategy. What companies are we going to sell? What companies are we going to buy? What companies are we going to buy shares in? And what's it going to be in the future? And let's not doubt whether the investment in Lufthans was good or bad, for example? On 31.12.2004, this investment was bad because Lufthansa ended up losing in 2004. But apparently there were companies in which it was good to invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59335	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59336	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Mršić, who connected the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Pension Fund and expressed his fear for the pensioners awaiting compensation. The pension fund does not have that character at all and cannot be compared to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The pension fund has the task of paying compensation in the nominal at exactly the specified time intervals and is filled with all types of property until the completion of the mission by the state of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59337	Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59338	You have stated here that you are afraid that the pensioners will be paid if they are not paid on the basis of the total portfolio. Don't be afraid anymore. It's quite clear. It's perfectly clear when pensioners are not represented by pensioners here, either, which is why they're chosen, but they appear as government attorneys to the harm of 4-time pensioners who are four-times. Deceited...... /Intruder: My colleagues please don't, you get one warning. [[Intruder: Please don't.]] Please, they've been cheated four times. The decision was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59339	You get a warning. You're insulting the MPs. You're insulting a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59340	Is it embarrassing to be a government attorney?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59341	No, no, no, no. You're that, you're in one offensive way... Reply to the replica, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59342	Well, my colleague Anticevic, I'm really afraid of what these 17 billion kunas are going to be collected from, which should be paid in nominal amount on the day of payment, because these assets simply do not exist. And we can tell the story that the Fund, the Pension Fund for Compensation, will be filled with all forms of property, but the question is whether these assets are there and when the assets are transferred to this Pension Fund will be managed in the same way as the assets received by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in the conversion process? Gentlemen, let's look at the nominal value of the assets in the conversion process and see what the nominal value of the assets is. Let us look at the merits of those who, on behalf of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, sat on supervisory boards and brought companies into bankruptcy and led to these people who were supposed to work today or forced retirement, not to contribute to the Croatian Pensions Education Institute but to its users and on the other hand are beneficiaries of unemployment benefits at the Employment Office. And therefore my concern, and therefore my concern is that I am afraid that, not that it will not be for compensation but that we will come into a situation that only the sole payment of pensions depends on the state budget and on what, of course, workers are paying this month for this month. So only generation solidarity will allow for pension payments. And the point is to be, it was different that with asset management, there was an increase in tensions because people worked, they created businesses, they built businesses, and the law said let's put some of that into retirement insurance, and we'll get bigger pensions out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59343	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59344	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would just like to remind myself of the conclusion made by the Croatian Parliament on 22 November 2005 where the insistence of the CNS was this conclusion and adopted, and among other things, it does not appear anywhere that it should have been a report for 2004. This should have been a report for your mandate, and we were hoping that you would include in your report at least the part of the fund that you followed to include the part where the robbery was proven in the finding of the state audit and where Mrs Šima Krasic wrote amongst these, among other things, one sentence: "In the procedures of the exchange of shares and the administration of shares, Croatian Fund for Privatisation, Pension and Disabilities Insurance, Croatian Pension Insurance and Contracting Partners who gave or received shares and received the right to manage." This is saying that this robbery, that this crime that was committed with this Fund, that Fund of Peace was not a coincidence. It says that it was organized and that this robbery was made in a systematic, concocted and organized way. This lasted until 1994 to 2000. None of those who managed the Croatian Privatisation Fund at the time were: Mr Ivan Penić, Milan Kovač, Družak, Hrkač, and none of those who managed the pension-inhabitation funds of the Institute, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Republic Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, individual farmers and workers, workers' insurance. Neither Stjepan Brčić nor Silvio Micin nor Damir Zoric nor Ljubo Vukoja were any of them responsible for anything that was happening, and the audit found it to be a robbery. The property of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has been injured. The head of the Croatian MIO HMO was then Mr. Mladen Strukar and something small Mario Mihalj. All that time, it was transmitted as I did in the opening statement on behalf of the Club, and it changed, and it replaced something for nothing or nothing for anything just in order to make the property worthless and that one of our current tycoons would come to the property of the common then all those as Mr. Hrelja told the pensioners and pensioners to take that pension away from all of them. And he reduced that property to two pensions as much of that entire property as it would now be sold by that nominal could be paid. That's nowhere in your report. We're looking for a report on your portfolio. We're looking for what's being run by the Capital Fund. We expected in that report that you would say why you didn't do anything when the government assigned Liburnia to some, your 12, about 19, somewhere and more, because nowhere exactly what your percentage is is missing. There is not a word about why you did not rebel, why you did not break the contract with the Croatian Privatisation Fund when you saw it leaving and leaking from your fingers. Not a word about the 914 million kuna debt that was made for this whole time until 31 December 1999. Nowhere, and 914 million is practically one quarter of what's left. And so much was done less in those transactions. I'm not talking about what's been insulted. I'm not talking about companies that went bankrupt. I'm not talking about anywhere that there's no record of how much you've charged from the bankruptcy of certain companies that went bankrupt, and I'm not talking about those companies that are in the contract that you signed with the Privatisation Fund where no property was known, where it says we couldn't find whoever's looking for those shares. We couldn't find the one to whom those shares were handed. That's not in the report either. There's no address for anyone who's looking for shares and who's got shares transferred to. That's not in your report. There's no way you're going to take care of Bizoba spas. There's no way you're gonna solve Platt, though, you're gonna sell him out. There's no way you're going to solve a Crikvenica that's also your property. There's no way it's going to be with that part of JANAF you've got. Not a word about how you'll manage your portfolio further. In this you announced that you would recapitalize the fund so that you could also take over the shares of the defenders. If you're going to run the defense team the way you've managed this fund so far, then don't let the defense attorneys give it to them, because after a while we're going to ask for a re-report and see that there's nothing or almost nothing in that fund. Don't master it that way. We didn't ask you for a report like this. We've been looking for a report that will show what you're going to do with that trust fund you're entrusted with management. It is not intended to sit in the board, take 3 and a half thousand kuna or 3 and 400 or some information from others that I have received. It's not just about sitting in it, not having it and not taking care of the property you're entrusted with.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59345	Replica. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59346	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Kapraljevic, you've been asking the question here why, why, why isn't it in the report. Well, it's true that there's no word written in the report, but it all comes out of one sentence. And the report says: "Despite the principle position of the administrative council, it is because it does not impair privatisation processes, however, on the basis of a request from the Croatian Privatisation Fund, it has made some concrete decisions." In fact, it's all coming out of that sentence. It turns out that the administrative council knows that these are not useful decisions for pensioners and future pensioners. However, the Administrative Council clearly says we know, but we follow the will of politics. What is the will of politics? So what happened in Liburnia, what happened in the pastry. So, we do not have a saying in the report, but clearly in one sentence is intentional. It does not want to protect the interests of pensioners and insurance companies, but rather wants to follow policies, and politics said in privatisation, and the State audit that carried out the audit of privatised companies revealed everything. She discovered that the largest mixing with shares and shares took place right in the Croatian Pension Insurance. That's where the worthless stock was changed for the valuables. So the fund gave up its valuable shares in exchange for the worthless. Here is a colleague of Kapralevich's policy, and only on the basis of this report can we conclude that such a policy continues to follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59347	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59348	Thank you, fellow Lalic. It's exactly everything in this report that says exactly in those three sentences that gentlemen have no intention of taking care of this trust fund or at least do not intend to worry about the one with the duty of a good master. Because, let's say, I have a record from their 5th session, where the request of the Croatian Privatisation Fund is to seek ex post consent for the sold shares of the Atlantic, Atlantic Bagat d.d. Zadar, Tobacco d.d. River., Lyon d.d. Kutina and Security d.d. Split on the Varazdin Stock Exchange. It's an ex post consent. Since the Croatian Privatisation Fund has already sold it, they are seeking ex post consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59349	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59350	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and thank you to everyone in this House who accepted then the proposal of the Croatian People's Party Club to receive this report and, in particular, an important document of the list of portfolios with the state of 31 December 2004. And in our debate, and the main motive for proposing this conclusion was anything we wanted to get the board's position on the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's report on his business that we were then considering, and in that part of the Board of Directors, so the operations regarding the portfolio of the Institute did not use almost one word or formulation in its text from the director of the Institute. In this report, it said that in 2004, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute had planned to make 10 million kunas of income from the sale of shares, shares and other receipts, and that 65 262 or 0.65% of the plan was achieved. I asked the question three times in my debate what happened was that one of the essential income or possible essential income items of the entry of funds into the office was made at 0.65% and no one wanted to give me an answer. And I expected the board to tell us why it happened. Did they see these reports before he came to Parliament? Only a few pages behind it were sentences that the Privatisation Fund by the end of February 2005. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office did not, although required of it, submit a report on portfolio management carried over to it by the basis of the contract. As a result, after such a finding, and the introduction of the contract concluded in 2000, where there is a obligation of the Privatisation Fund to give, at the request of a half-yearly report, therefore not annual, half-yearly reports, the Administrative Council does not propose to exercise the right referred to in Article 14 of the same Treaty and to propose the termination of the contract with the Privatisation Fund. If the manager of that portfolio doesn't even want to file reports, if he makes his income by 0.65%, I believe that's justifiable reasons for the termination of the contract. If they didn't, then transfer it and give it to them and don't bother with it anymore, because you've become prisoners of the Privatisation Fund and then there's nothing more with the portfolio of the Mirovinski Institute. It is only nominally yours, and you are helpless observers of events that you cannot influence. And I believe the government, the board of directors, has not put you up for it. Furthermore, adding up the 31 December 2004 portfolio, it turns out that in the unfortunate portfolio, as far as companies are concerned, 2 billion 949 million kunas of value of the economy, 170 million, are still nominated in German marks, 87m euros. That you have in your portfolio 164 million in banks, in banks, and that the capital of the fund has a portfolio of 384 million kuna. If we add that up and turn everything into a national currency of kuna, that would be about 4 to 4 and a half billion kunas of value. So, Croatian pensioners through you have a chance to have 4 and a half billion kuna in their hands. Today there were often mentions of new pensioners' topics here, those after January 1st, '99. the year whose pension is growing every year and in the last year of 2009, the average pension of people who will retire will be about 20% of the average salary, about 1,000 kuna. In the budget for this year, for total pension expenditure is 25 billion, and for full-time pensioners and regular pensions half of it, 12 billion 600 million. These 4 and a half billion portfolios in banks in the fund's capital, in Bizovačka spas, in Liburnia and other profitable companies must be a means, a way and a source from which, with a single increase in these pensions, they would remove the injustices of the '98 reform. A year. If the portfolio information is correct. If true nominal and values are displayed in this state. And if that portfolio was similar to 31.12.2005, we don't know yet. I appeal, therefore, to the Administrative Council of the Croatian Pensions Institute to consider at its session the possibility of a portfolio to which the Privatisation Fund, capital fund, and to share in business banks, including foreign companies you have being one of the sources, one of the sources of pension correction of new pensioners. And another theme for the board of directors, and you didn't write. In Croatia, there are a large number of retirement homes built since the 1970s. It's the same big property, real estate, huge, in value nowhere displayed. For example, there are two buildings in the retirement home in Čakovec. On one building you own, and on the other you don't, because you've worked different years. You're the formal owner. The property is binding. Try to do... to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as a responsible administrative council, a solution to the property relations of pensioners' homes, which in the meantime have become county property, a series of regulations and laws, and for whose business the counties are responsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By retaining nominal ownership, and without investing, maintaining, investing, and refusing to give tabular documents to enroll homes, not the Pension Fund or the Institute, you are largely making it impossible for the able directors to return these assets to management. You're on the move. Offer the Government a solution to this problem. Raise the list and value of these buildings in Croatia. A very important question for those who want to manage this property responsibly, and yours is property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59351	Thank you. Replica first, distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59352	Dear colleague Lesar, I highly appreciate your concern that I share for the new pensioners and the lowest pensions, so I'd be happy to say what I know about it, because the public deserves it. We are not lawyers of any government in HSU, but I will be very happy now to allow myself to be exclusive and answer this question and to be in spite of the former government's attorney. The lowest full-term pension was reduced by 12.5% to Minister Vidovic in 2002, which now stands at 234 kuna to the lowest pension. At that time, the Pension Insurance Act was amended and the current pension value was reduced by 50% for the last 10 years. Are we going to blame our colleague Lesar for this implementation, too, strictly for the law enforcement of HZMO? It's a dilemma that stays in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59353	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59354	Thank you very much. I'm sure you'll be a distinguished colleague... agree with me that both old and new and future pensioners in this country do not care what contribution the responsibility of then Minister of Montenegro, Jurlin, Parača, Juras, Škara, Vidovic and Vukelic and the investigation of pension responsibility will not increase, they expect from you in the board of directors, from the Government and this Parliament to do something, to correct and correct the matter. [[You don't understand.]] They can also be awarded rewards as far as they're concerned. They want pensions, not this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59355	Second replica, respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59356	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Lesar, you've determined here that the administrative council is a helpless observer. A very interesting sentence, and now that we look at who is actually doing this administrative council, the administrative council makes up 13 members and four of them are representatives of the government, insurance companies 3, pensioners 3 and employers 3. And now that we're looking at the ratio of strength, that ratio of strength would have to be a guarantee that they're not helpless observers, because the interests of the pensioners should be protected by both insurance and pensioners, and I think they're employers, because they're also insurance companies. But what's the problem with my colleague, Lesar? The problem is that all these members of the Governing Council are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making a choice in order to ultimately produce and from this report that same administrative council would be a helpless observer. We are not even a helpless observer, but it is an instrument and mechanism for implementing government policy and why we are doing this. Now it is up to us to wonder whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia, no matter what political options it is, should be appointed to the administrative council. Can we get an independent board to protect those he represents if they are appointed by a political powermaker no matter what political options. The next term is probably another, but I would not want that other political option if it had such power to manage and direct and conduct the work of the Governing Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59357	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59358	Thank you very much. This claim about the helpless observation of the race around them took place by reading the report, but not only of the board of directors, but also of the report submitted by the director for 2004 and not of the impression that the board of directors is here, but of the board of directors, when the report is compared. But what's even more dangerous for me is that both the director and the board of directors are helpless with the Privatization Fund that we have a contract with. That he actually owns the portfolio of the Privatisation Fund, not the principal or the board of directors. And what bothers me even more and saddens me, that neither the principal nor the board of directors tried to rebel against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59359	Thank you. Five minutes of debate, respected representative Drago Pukleš, club representative of HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59360	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the Pension Insurance Office, respected fellow MPs. When the topic of a debate relating to a population that makes up a million people of this beautiful Croatia, then it really deserves to be discussed seriously, and I think that we will have to talk a lot more about it and a lot of things to adopt and do, but to start with what we have today. We have today in the debate according to the conclusions of this Assembly a report from the Governing Council and we have a list of companies that are in the portfolio of the Pension Insurance Office and what we are looking for. I guess we didn't just ask to get the data like we got, but we made those conclusions and what we were looking for, we got it, and maybe we expected to get something a little bit more far than that. In view of the report on the work of the Governing Council and the list of companies that we have, this is something relating to the current situation, and the problem is not in the current situation but the problem in the complexity of the pension system institution is the particularly intergenerational solidarity that has been, remains and will be not only with us but also in other countries the basic pension system. However, we have disabling this system so much, we have violated it so that it is simply not what it is today, and it does not meet the needs that should be financed from it as well as alimony, which is seen from the situation we have in the paid pensions in Croatia. It was intended to expect that the administrative board and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute as the most professional body in the area, lead a complete policy and care about the pension system and all that comes from that system, which refers to pensions. But it's not like that. That's one question. The second question is which Board and Pension Insurance Department were also supposed to be about what we might have been expecting. To have more in the hands of the capital situation that we got in conversion, which is one third of the total social capital. Two-thirds expunged the state and sold what it was like, but there is one third of it in the pension system, probably with the intention of maintaining and supporting the system from that capital. However, it happened that things also got out of control here and that simply and that part of the capital that was to be alimony, a lot of things as regards the pension system simply and it turned into state property and didn't rule it the way it should be managed. And there are no means of alimony of pension system expenditure. Since my time is running out, I won't be able to say everything I'm doing. However, I think this issue is very serious and that we will have to see whether not only what is left in the pension system but also what was, whether it is the property of the pension system or...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59361	Thanks a lot, buddy. A little, you'll have to, a little. ... Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59362	Thank you. I'd like two incorrect allegations to correct. One is that these papers we get concern the current state. It's none of your business. It'd be great if they were. It concerns the situation with the 12th month of 2004. So we get something that the paces pass, we get information about things that are definitely done. Another incorrect quote from 30% of the Croatian economy, social wealth, something happened. Nothing happened, they did.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59363	Second five-minute debate. The club of representatives of the CNS, the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59364	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is Mr. Pukleš pointed out how much capital he had at the beginning of the pension system and it was about one third of the total social property, social capital at the time. It is now reduced to this figure that we have seen with the debt that the Croatian Privatisation Fund towards Croatian Pensions Insurance has 914 million kuna. Whether it will ever be converted into something, whether it will be re-entered into the pension system from this debate, and this report cannot be seen by chance. Is this property currently available to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, whether this pension will serve what Mr. Lesar said, that at least part of that part will help those pensioners who have gone full-time into retirement of a thousand 244 kuna. I don't believe it because I believe what we got in the report isn't the right thing to do. Because it's mostly companies, most of them who are either in bankruptcy or in front of bankruptcy, and what's not, which is good with this administrative council doesn't master at all. In order to confirm that not masters, I will not read any part of the minutes from their sessions. For example, at the 5th session, the Croatian Privatisation Fund asked them for ex post consent. They asked for an ex post agreement with 5 to 3 they refused that subsequent consent and regardless of what they refused there, gave that consent to the availability of the property, normally the Croatian Privatisation Fund spent it. So I wonder why after such actions, if not before, you haven't broken your contract with the Privatisation Fund. Then perhaps you would, if you were alone and were in a position to do so, then perhaps you would have had better control of the property you have. The property where you have over 90%, such as the Bizovaske spas, Pay, lest I count, all the ones you have. You didn't break a contract with the Privatisation Fund then either. And the Privatisation Fund has never submitted a report to you, and you wrote that in your annual report, not even to you that he had your property. And if you had no idea how or what happened to your property, it's in the sixth-session record, where you did your own chronology the way that you lost that property. And you counted it at 11 points since 91 as it started and how this fund was devalued. And after that report, you didn't do anything to keep that property to those for whom it was intended, for the pension system. And that's why this report, not that it isn't anything, this report has no right to be informed, let alone accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59365	Dear representative Ljubica Lalic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59366	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the Croatian Peasant Party club disagrees with the claim made here, and the claim was what we wanted to get. No, we, when we voted for this conclusion, didn't want to get a jacket report. We didn't want to get an incomplete report. We wanted to receive a report that clearly pointed out and showed how the property that was transferred to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office was the property that was used to finance the pension insurance system. We didn't get a report like that. We didn't get it clear, and we didn't get it with a saying. We got it so formulated that we had to read what the poet wanted to say. And the poet, through the report, wanted to say that his way of working hasn't changed. Yes, and continue to be mastered by the burden of a bad master, not a good master. It's the bad master's march. That this property has been devalued from day to day, that one who is to manage this property on behalf of those who have entrusted it with not representing them but representing other political goals and then we have to ask ourselves, and what can our pensioners think and what can our pensioners expect? So our pensioners from all this can conclude that they can only expect pension cuts that eventually happened. So last year, in July of the month after the announced return of the debt to the pensioners, to which all the cameras and all the Croatian public were concentrated, and then when the Croatian public went into enthusiasm and conveyed happiness to the pensioners that their debt would be paid back, then this Croatian Parliament voted most of the time the Law on the Change of the formula for harmonising pensions. This change in formula actually leads to a reduction in pensions. We worry about each day or read in the newspaper the so-called problem. The new pensioners and the fact is, and it's true that two different people who worked their entire working life on the same jobs, received the same pay, but one went to retirement on 31.12.'98 and the other 1.1.99. years and their pensions vary somewhere up to 30%. Here is a picture of how it is actually being mastered and how it is thought about our pensioners and in the hope, in the belief that it will just be driven by another debate on how to manage the property that is the property of the pensioners and insurance companies that will crystallise some other conclusions in the interest of protection and in order to protect the very interests of the pensioners, however, if we are to judge the basis of the debate for us, this issue is a very serious issue, a question that should be given great attention. This debate was not expected, we did not contribute to considering this and contribute together to some new solutions. The issue of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia is not a political issue. In that part, we don't have to deal with politics and we don't do politics, but we have to take care of these people because this way it doesn't sound good to them. I read the data somewhere, I don't know if it's official, but I read the information that today's average pension is 40% of the average salary paid by the Republic of Croatia. I would like to remind you that in 31.12.2003, the average pension in the Republic of Croatia was 44.51%, and it also says here in this report. Is it our goal to increase pensions or continue the trend of reducing pensions the way it started? We at HSS think that we should try to increase these pensions, certainly through property management and because this property management is completely irresponsible, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives cannot support this Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59367	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59368	I'm correcting the incorrect quote where my colleague Lalic spoke of the poor master's march. There's no such thing as a bad master, there's no such thing as a bad master. Secondly, she pointed out the difference between the retired in 1998 and 1999, it is not. Their difference between these pensioners is not 300 kuna, but I am not reducing the problem of new pensioners, it is huge, it is big and for that solution needs political consensus for all in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59369	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59370	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said that the issue of pensioners and returns is therefore a debt to pensioners and their rights must not be and is not a matter of politics. I'd say it is, and it was your debate that showed it. When, in fact, you said among other things, I'd say it's insulting the best intention and trying to get the government back, yes, yes! To repay the debt to the pensioners, how so, but to pay back by respecting the pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59371	Final review, Director of the Mile Rukavin Fund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59372	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I, I'd just like to take a very short look at the previous exposure. I really have no intention of denying the allegations of any kind related to the report on the work of the Governing Council and what they were supposed to deliver to me, but one thing I would certainly like to explain is what is painful for us is the story of reducing the portfolio of the Institute, it is a fact and no one escapes from it. I would just like to make it clear that there is no one in the office who and the reports on which several representatives spoke in any way, and they refer to the reports of the State Audit Office, the audit of the business carried out, the exchange of shares and the granting of shares on the management as well as the sale of shares. This is the fact that the state audit has carried out two regular audits, if I may call them specialist reports, I have mentioned them now, one since July 2002, and the other since April 2003. These are very extensive reports and the state audit in them has carried out checks for each individual company, reached certain conclusions and established, or made findings, I am talking about the replacement of shares that occurred since the period when the Institute became the owner of the shares until the day these reports were made. Therefore, it does not only apply to a certain period but to all these periods and it is clearly stated in that report that the portfolio has been reduced, and the reasons are also cited, I would not particularly apostrophe and a reduction in the number of shares and due to the reduction and underlying capital and bankruptcy and the sale of shares and the replacement of everything that has happened and there is no secret. What is different in relation to the last of my presentations in this House of Commons, I have also mentioned this last time that this complete report finally means, finally, in July 2002 and April 2003, to the County State Attorney's Office by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the Institute, i.e. Croatian Pension Insurance as a special company of intensive activities with the State's Attorney's Office, with bodies that have addressed the Institute as well as the police administration of Zagreb, the criminal police sector, the Department of Economic Crime and, of course, the County State's Attorney's Office and the activities on the processing of these cases according to the special report of the State Audit Office. Therefore, the Institute can participate in such a way and only in such a way because the whole process is run by the County State Attorney's Office and it actively participates and responds to any request from the bodies that I have listed. One thing I think maybe just along the way I could mention, which is that the Bureau is aware that this is the way to run the stocks, if we're talking about legal form from the point of view of the institution, to call it that. It is certainly in force, I once again point out, that the Law on Privatisation or the better stated provision of the Law of Article 1a is in force. on privatisation where it clearly states that the portfolio of the Republic of Croatia is made up of shares and special shares and that the institution is the owner of the shares. In this sense, in any case, it is more relevant for one state of portfolio when we talk about management, the one who is at this moment, who manages the shares, it is certainly the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59373	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59374	Peto, Report on the work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004 with a list of companies from the portfolio of the Institute, which are managed by the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the list of companies held by the Institute in the Capital Fund d.d. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Fund for 2004 is hereby adopted and a list of companies from the portfolio of the Institute which are managed by the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the list of companies held by the Institute in the Capital Fund d.d. is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 70 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 25 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59375	We move to the next point - The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the spending of funds provided in the State budget for the needs of national minorities for 2003 and 2004 in accordance with Article 37. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered that opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the report at the session. On behalf of the government, State Secretary for Justice Snjezana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59376	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is a report before you on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds provided for that purpose in the State Budget for a period of two years for 2003 and 2004. As we all know at the end of 2003, more precisely in December 22, 2003, this House adopted this House on the day of its publication in the "National Journal" the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities entered into force which, I dare say in a more quality manner, regulated those rights. I am saying this because, in relation to earlier constitutional legal rights and freedoms and the rights of ethnic and national communities or minorities in the Republic of Croatia, these constitutional laws are extended, i.e. new institutes that aim to protect the rights of national minorities even more strongly. In particular, I refer to the establishment, i.e. this Law introduces institutes of the Council of National Minorities and representatives of national minorities elected today in almost all units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In addition, in 2003, the Law provides for a Council for National Minorities, which, as an independent body, consists of representatives of national minorities, is in fact to protect and ensure that national minorities belong to the public life of the Republic of Croatia, and I also think it is necessary to say that this Council is competent and authorised to decide to the greatest extent and to allocate the financial resources provided for in the protection and exercise of the rights guaranteed by this Law and by a series of specific laws to members of national minorities. This is because the Constitutional Law provides for different rights, which are generally established at the principle level by this Act, certain instruments of course, but for the full implementation of the Constitutional Law of National Minorities, it is necessary to consult and through the direct implementation of a number of other specific laws such as, among them, the most important Act on the Administration of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities, the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly, and the Law on the Selection of Members of the Representatives of the Units of Local and Regional (regional) Region (regional) Self-Government of these Rights, and the provisions of the Law on the ID, the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities and the Law on Associations. That is why, when we talk about this Report, it also reports in such a comprehensive way, i.e. it provides information on how it has been achieved in these various areas, that is to say, the rights of members of the national minorities and the financial resources provided in the budget for that purpose. This Report therefore contains information on the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities in these specific areas such as the right to serve the language and letter of national minorities, the right to religion, cultural autonomy, education, how minority rights are exercised, access to the media, representation of national minorities in state administration and justice bodies, or representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and on the work of the Council for National Minorities and the implementation of the National Programme for Roma. This report also contains a series of tables detailing how the funds are and for what purpose and which institutions have been allocated in relation to the financial resources provided in the budget, let me just say that during this reporting period the funds provided in the state budget have increased by 20% for this purpose. What was the debate was, in fact, a debate was conducted on all committees, but one of the comments was also a more important observation that a report was submitted for a period of two years for 2003 and 2004, although the Constitutional Law itself, its Article 37, prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia report was submitted once a year, so that the Government did not submit a special report for the past year or last year for 2003. The reason for this lies in the fact that the law was passed at the end of the year and that, in some of its deadlines for the implementation of certain provisions of this law, it proved in practice inconclusive. For example, only in the transitional and final provisions of this law it was prescribed that the completion should be carried out for members of national minorities, representative bodies or units of local administration and self-government within 30 days of the law and set up a council within a period of 90 days of forgiveness and set up a council within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the law. However, the fact is, the practice has shown that it is not possible to implement it within such a short period of time is that it has been implemented and implemented. However, in certain units of local administration and self-government, additional elections for councils and representatives of national minorities were held only in February 2004 and their constitution and registration lasted during the first half of 2004. Furthermore, for the full implementation of this law, or the birth of all reports and analysis, it took time for the law to be applied. As you can see for yourself, this report contains actually contributions and contributions from various authorities of the state administration, ministries and offices, and has been brought together as a report from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these are objective reasons why it was not possible to submit the report during the last year, but also to be delivered here for 2003 and 2004. Of course, the law is now being applied for two years, only the initial difficulties in its application have passed, all the councils are now being established, elections are being held for representative bodies. The competent ministries now have the necessary data, databases and now they already know how this law really needs to be applied in practice, so it is expected that the following reports will be delivered more quickly and that the reports will be easier to produce. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59377	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'm opening a debate. U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, respected representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59378	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, head of the office, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to say something in the beginning that has a certain character of introduction, the reasons why I'm putting it in part, she said, and Mrs. Secretary of State. Firstly, in this report this report speaks of a sensitive issue, it seems to me to be an important and sensitive social issue that is particularly important for minorities and minority communities. And on the other hand, it is a question which I hope we have agreed is important for the Republic of Croatia because, through this issue, Croatia has a good or slightly worse legitimacy. And on the third hand, this is about this issue and on the third hand it's about that this is a government report, therefore a report on an important issue from a very high place, and that means that we need to interpret it so that, with this report or in it, we need to see and read the message that the government has and gives about this important issue. When we talk about the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, then it means that this is about one important document both in its rank and in its contents, and it is about the responsibility or relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as far as this matter is prescribed by law is going to be consistently implemented and how it will actually persist in this implementation, and otherwise or otherwise it means that this is about the government's relationship again in the way I just said, the government's relationship to its obligation and the obligation of society to respect the law of such a high rank. And one more thing I have to or want to say in something that represents some kind of introduction, which is this report was timed in 2003-2004. This means it's a document made with an extraordinary delay. I will present here today some illustrations that life now has, which reality brings into practice and now you can think what it means in relations to two or three years earlier. One more thing that makes me feel unsatisfactory, which is that this report has yet to come after quite a number of interventions and dissatisfactions, the last requests for such a report to be made. It is of course now but is certainly made late or we are faced with a delay which is not suitable for the body of high rank as the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I hope that a good lesson should be drawn from that that is not going on. Something about the content of the report on behalf of our club can make a certain point. I'm talking about the structure of the report. That's where I list three things. A large number of pages in this report refer to single money and invested money in minority institutions and minority programmes and minority content. It should be said that there is a good trend and that the government has shown good will to allocate significant amounts and that the Council for National Minorities plays a significant role in this matter and that there is also a positive assessment and a positive trend. The second thing that appears there is perhaps even more pages in this report you have about the interventions of the Ministry of Culture, more or less about the investments of the Ministry of Culture in the body of cultural monuments. Now of course cultural monuments are important in its minority segment here, but you know the question remains whether they are part of the total cultural corps, the monumental corps however you like, the Republic of Croatia. I have the impression that he's singled out here just to sort of get the overall impression of activity reports relative to minorities stronger. And the third thing about content, I think it can take notice. This lacks assessment of difficulties, of the facts faced by minority communities in society and when it comes to respecting the law, but probably also on the other hand the assessment of the facts and difficulties that the Government may have in realising what the Constitutional Law says. It seems to me that I repeat such a document from a high-ranking body which should also be evaluated as a high-ranking document that it was necessary for such messages, such assessments and such conclusions to be written in this report. I'll tell you here, I'll be free to present some illustrations that show one side of the shift compared to earlier times, but they also show a series of difficulties that minority communities are having right now. I'm going to single out some illustrations that refer to the return environments, because if I can be a little selfish, I'm more interested in it, and on the other hand, I think it's actually reading the biggest drama of someone individually. You see, at the end of last year, we agreed with the government that we had resolved the issue of return of property. We agreed because we felt that there was no need not to vaccinate on some low numbers, although human fates should not be judged that way. But despite that, in one place, you now have six people whose name and name I know, who are held by singles, family houses waiting for those families to come into possession. These people are waiting for other accommodations to be made for them, which we say is legitimate, to be discussed, but it is legitimate. But the house occupied by one single person times six is extreme irrationality because you can make some accommodation at the end of the day and together. That shows two things. It shows the absence of sensitivity for such a kind of problem and shows that somehow there is no consistent law enforcement and the solving of these practical problems that I am talking about. Of course, I don't want to, although it's not fair, make a policy of five cases. But you know five cases where they've been dragging for 10 years are some kind of policy. Another thing I want to mention here, because it's wise to say, for example, an eclectic example. In another area, in another municipality, 10 people were given a solution to have a reconstruction first. The restoration of their houses that were destroyed at one time, so the space was cleansed, so the land was brought in, and the grass was planted. People have been given a solution to rebuilding and appropriate services, organizers and designers have been ordered to build houses. The heads of the community say these houses can't be here. Those houses can't be here. Now I won't go on, but when you get such a degree of resistance from local leaders on things that make it impossible to implement a state act on someone's right, it worries you know. That's what's worrying. And now we are at a stage where we need someone who is more patient probably, who has more power, to pray for someone to change their mind. In the structure of this, I will not introduce you to the structure of this problem, but at this level, so at the level of speaking about the implementation of constitutional law or otherwise, in relation to feelings of minority problem. It's a big drama. And I'm not mentioning it to you because I want to impress you here with one location or one example or small numbers. Unfortunately, unfortunately, these aren't lonely cases. I'm here the last time we spoke through the form of parliamentary issues, Minister Calmeta himself said 5,500 people have no electricity and now one action has been launched to bring this thing in. I just come from the question, it makes sense to come from the question, what were your numbers when we got back in 2003? And that's not in the report. I'm not saying, I'm not asking for a report of numbers individually, so if that were important, but it would be expected to go inside cases that make inaccessible human drama, because that's why we're all responsible. Here today, this morning was, we had a report from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, actually by the board of directors, etc. I'll tell you one example. It seems to me that one colleague said, so you're missing, there's been no official communication of the office with the individual to your user. What's this about? In an older law for people who were retired before the war, then, there was a suspension of their pension, and then there was an establishment, a compensation for the establishment of a pension, at which point the law allowed someone to receive a pension for three years in reverse. I guess the Bureau was supposed to let that know. When the man found out, then the Bureau said it's been three years, it's out of date, you have no right anymore. And now that, as I thought this technique of yours wasn't working well, I'm going to respect it. I will, it's a similar thing with education, etc. In conclusion, I'm going to say the next thing you know, it seems important to me from this level, and it seems to me that we should pay attention to it. In nature, therefore, compared to the law, there is a large amount of mistrust among people in nature, but I dare say in the minds of people and in the hearts of people there is much more trust and understanding than we affirm. From this place from our roles we would have to affirm it. Finally, I will only say this sentence with this affirmation and sensitivity for people who are cooperative is the element that the Government of the Republic of Croatia requires its orders to respect the law. That would be, those two would be very important for the realization of what we all stand for together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59379	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59380	Your Honor, Mr. President, Agent Gajica himself said it was just a few cases, but here, they have a family, so it turns out it's a lot. I agree, and I am very close to familiar with solving the problem of minorities. I think if the Croatian state solves Croats as well, then I would be very pleased with all of us. Thus, it does not appear that it has not been solved or that it is being dealt with poorly. Never ideal. "Nobody's perfect." But I would just like to remind you of a case of television coverage of our Croatian defenders near Pula. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59381	Thank you. HDZ representative club respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59382	I would like to thank Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State and the Office for National Minorities. The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and on the spending of funds provided in the State budget for the needs of national minorities for 2003/2004. A year. And we will therefore stick to this very report in the context of these historical data for two years to which it refers, to what the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as well as the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities and the Law on the Elections of National Minority Members of National Minorities states and therefore on those means which are intended to do so. The subject of this report is not the general state of a particular minority or is the subject of a return so that here is the Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts this report although we also think that it may have been possible to wait a few days and together with the 2005 report to come up with a real state which in this year is because it is a series of positive and dynamic changes in favour of national minorities with increasing resources that are being allocated for different action programmes that would give real state of mind and show all the efforts that the Croatian government is constantly showing in several areas. So also in the area of lawmaking that enables it, the education of minorities to consume these laws and to pay those costs that these activities require, and all of this results in the fact that this moment in Croatia can proudly say to minorities as many as there are and which are organised, consume these rights in a far greater percentage than any minority in any European country, and much more than Croats in any country can theoretically achieve. So, while respecting the right of every minority to want to continue to be more and more, we must underline that the structure of this report is made by the ministries and that it is very easy to see that in 2003 and 2004 what the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Education and Sports and others who participate in this is a visible increase in the allocation of funds which, of course, everyone recognises but also the activities are visible so that a series of public documents have been issued in minority languages. That in the 31st unit of local self-government, and in 67, this theoretically and possibly introduced the use of the language of the national minority throughout the area. That the judicial authorities allow the use of the language of the national minority and therefore we must say whether it is little or not, but there has been no appeal by any of the members of the national minority in those two years that could not have done so in court. So what we can say is that in this report the most and best possible work is done and the biggest shift is to raise and educate members of national minorities that this right to teach in their letter and language in one of those models and we have 3 models used by 7 minorities. That religious education is also organized in the language of the national minority. That unfortunately the number of children in schools is visible, but what we want to point out is that even minorities share the fate of the total state and people of everyone living in this country, which is a permanent decline in the population and unfortunately a smaller number of children in schools, so that's also the case here. We have preschool education organized and kindergartens in 11 counties. So model A uses only an Italian minority in elementary school. That the Serbian, Hungarian and Czech minorities combine model A and model C, which means that they also perform the whole course in the letter and language of the national minority, but with the compulsory learning of Croatian language and that they can then also have an additional teaching in minority language, according to the number of members of a minority and according to the number of professional associates who are also employed by the Ministry of Education and Sports. So let's see that there's also a big shift because there are six new advisors employed by different national minorities who are concerned that this teaching is in line with what minorities want. We must therefore point out that cultural autonomy is ensured and that 375 national minority associations are provided with money which through various programmes of museum, archival, library activities, through the financing of different cultural and artistic activities, through libraries that are listed here achieves a significant realization of their programmes and with considerable resources. Therefore, they have the right to demonstrate their faith since a series of Croatian state contracts and churches belonging to minorities are signed, also with the Holy Table, with the Orthodox Serbian Church, with the Islamic community, with the evangelical church, with the Bulgarian Orthodox, with the evangelical churches, so different adventistic churches in Croatia, and it is evident that the teaching of religious science can be organised within two hours per week according to the wish of schools. We must therefore say that it is possible to access the means of public communication. The only thing we have to say is that only during this period for which we will have received the report has been established by a fund to promote pluralism and diversity of media into which the funds have started to flow, so we have received a report on how the right of minorities to be consumed through Croatian television through the Prizma show, on the first programme of Croatian Radio, so through the "Glass of Croatia" and on the radio stations of Rijeka, Pula and Osijek consumes this right and on a series of local radio stations, so that I do not list everything now because it would be too much. We therefore have a report on the representation of minority members in the bodies of the state administration, although we must say that in order to establish such a record, civil servants and tenants would have to declare their nationality every time they are employed, which is practically impossible because there is no way for you to force a man to declare his nationality if he does not want to. But other conditions should be assumed, therefore, to base a public tender because it is a model of employment in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the state service, those expected, so the expert prepares. The question is whether this is sometimes possible given the structure in some part of Croatia's members of the national minority and to fulfill it. We must therefore say that we have a report only for police administrations where this is being conducted and that regardless of why we have a little disproportionateness between the percentage of national minorities in the total population and the percentage in the number of employees, we also have bright examples because in eight counties in Croatia you have a higher percentage of national minorities in the police than in the percentage of the population. So there are examples like that. I hope, then, that in the next period and in the part where it has not yet been achieved, the average will be improved. We must therefore say that there has been no case in this period that any of the candidates for judicial duties, I am talking about judges and other officials, complained that he had not been admitted to the service and that this was his right to be a member of a national minority. So what I'm saying is that we've also made it possible by law for the councils of national minorities to function. It's, of course, the first time something was done was a little harder because the mass of people didn't even know how to do it. The Croatian state has organised courses and additional elections for which it has spent more than 15 million kunas, so that people are educated, organised, elected and elected representatives who, of course, care for their issues and this process and the process is under way and in great progress. We must say that the Council for National Minorities, which has only one of the powers to allocate funds, is also established. So, what he was saying before me, Mr. Gaitsa might be the task of counseling. The Council has the right to give opinions and suggestions to both the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament on the potential problems of individual minorities and on how to resolve them, so that, in addition to I say, the funds deployed and managed to control their spending according to the unique criteria for each national minority can be addressed and therefore established by a number of other issues for the benefit of national minorities and, of course, the benefit of the Croatian state. So we have to say that, compared to 2003, the 10% increase in the amount of advice was received. It's not a small amount of 22 million kuna and it's probably rational and spent. We must therefore say that we also have a special programme for the Roma where certain status issues are addressed and where certain programmes are also done. And we must therefore say that in 2003 Croatia totaled nearly 32 million kuna and in 2004 more than 45 million kunas for the achievement of certain rights guaranteed by the constitutional laws that I had just counted. So these tables that we have in hand really detail and very detailed show in which way and where location are located individual and preschool institutions and secondary schools and primary schools, police administrations that have a certain percentage of national minorities. And the Croatian Democratic Community therefore believes that this report should be accepted as it is, it is a set of historical data which still shows great progress in a very short time, given all the difficulties that Croatia has netted out of the war should be particularly appreciated and based on the acceptance of all international documents that we have accepted much earlier than some members of the European Union, although we have not yet. What I would like to point out, therefore, is that multiethnicity and multiculturality is the wealth of Croatia and the Croatian Democratic Community would therefore like, in the next report then perhaps to further methodologically do what we have here, so that according to some national minorities, we have concretely obtained from members of the Czech minority, which was shown by members of the Serb minority according to these individual paragraphs from the state administration to the Council for National Minorities, to school and preschool education, so that we would see in some ways how much support a certain national minority has received. And of course they have the same criteria and are completely equal to Croatian laws. And what I just want to underline, so the Croatian Democratic Community would be happy if we were able as a state to fight that members of the Croatian people in all the countries that our neighbours have and even a little further have or begin to get the rights that we have all achieved together through the adoption of these laws in the Croatian state. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59383	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59384	Thank you very much. So I am correcting the incorrect assumption that minority authorities are not represented amongst other things that, as the colleague said, there may not be enough appropriate personnel, or structurally not responding. Because then how do you interpret that neither, let's say 25 minorities are represented in the number that works, which is both represented and in the population. In fact, I think it's one possible space or example where it would be easiest to meet certain obligations because it doesn't really cost anything and it can be very easily solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59385	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59386	Dear Mr. President, esteemed gentlemen, State Secretary, Honorable Mr. Representatives. So there is no doubt that the Republic of Croatia has appropriate minority legislation. That's what I'd dare say, no doubt. And exactly says Mrs Ivana Sucec-Tracostanec that we also have some norms that few European countries know. However, whether everything here is in the Republic of Croatia, just as great or perhaps there is part of the people's paper that suffers everything. At first glance I repeat, it seems that when the minority injuries in Croatia are all great. But we all know that's not exactly the way it is. According to the 91st census, there were 581,000 Serbs in the country, 2001. 201,000 minus 380,000. The Italians were 21.303, 2001. 19,636 minus 1,700. Hungarians from 22,000 to 16,500 minus 6,000. Czechs from 13,000 91 to 10,502 2001 minus 2,500. The letter was 91. 5,606, 2001. 4.712 minus 900. Slovenians find it interesting how many their numbers have also fallen, almost 50% from 22.376 to 13.173 minus 9,000. The Germans were more, 2,635 per list in 91, 2,902 per list in 2001 plus means 267. Right here was the war, the Serb leaders who raised the rebellion against Croatian authorities are the main culprits why the number of Serb minorities from 581.663 91 fell to 201.631 in 2001 or minus 380.032 and there lies the data why Croatia fell from 4,784,000 to 4,37.000 minus 346.000. It was also clear that some inappropriate procedures on the Croatian side could not be escaped, lay off from work 91st and so on. But that can't be the reason for the rebellion. The truth about the position of minorities may not have been so persistent I would dare say fight, as the citizens of the County of Istrianally fought for their historic moments that anyone would divide those citizens by nationality to find the same fate after 18 and 47 somewhere on the wave of an exodus. All of what the Istrians of the 1990s were accused of was through international contracts, whether by law, today it became a Croatian minority standard. Whether it is a parity representation or representation in the authorities, bilinguality of certain local environments, use of letters and languages in the state administration, etc. What is meant in 93 was installed in the Statute of the County of Istria today in some way becoming a minority standard of the Republic of Croatia. Whoever thinks it was simple or to fight for, that's just as naive. I've never experienced a single member of a national minority in my life as a minority. Why, though, do I use the term "national minority"? First of all, because of the law, but also the fact that the leaders of national minorities speak that way. In some ways, I resent the leaders of national minorities after they have resolved their status that they give up on the principle of this positive discrimination mainly of double voting rights, as this makes it difficult for the elections to be fair. This should certainly be the biggest grudge today when minority rights are in the process. Why? Because unless it happens, in this country, it literally punishes those parties who sincerely respect minority standards. I agree that apart from Slovenia, Romania, a little where minorities are directly elected to parliament, but almost everywhere they have a double right to vote, because otherwise, as I said, they punish those parties who have stood up for their status all the time, for their existence and for their inviolability and that Mr Furio Radin knows very well no matter what we intend to replicate. In 2003, the new Electoral Law did something that counted for minorities to prevail in favour of the former government. At that time, the number of minority representatives in this House rose from 5 to 8, but no double vote was given as the Bosniaks and Slovenians did not return to the Constitution. The current electoral system in that part I will say is not logical and until that part of the elections in Croatia is corrected in some way will be clearly fair, but the question is whether it will be fair, and the electoral model in some way is the instrument of ghettoisation, regardless of the fact that there are eight minority MPs in this Parliament, and not the expression of real minority freedoms, because the truth is that fewer and fewer citizens vote for those lists, and the representative with 300 votes won or a thousand votes won, is a representative with all rights and obligations as well as any other, but on the other hand, I want to stress it once again, the punishment of the citizen party is being punished. Whoever I think doesn't see it, I just don't know what he sees. Today it is also clear that minority leaders will decide who will be in power. I am aware that it is also clear today in 2006 that the raw nationalist passion will never again appear in Croatia when people in Pula, Rijeka, Zagreb sometimes feared their origins and sometimes it was dangerous to walk on that concrete. I am pleased to see that they have just returned from their meeting with the President of the Republic, Mr Furio Radin and Mr Pupovac, and that the President of the Republic, Mr Mesic, supported the principle of positive discrimination. I'm betting that no one is privileged or discriminated over because of their origins. I hope there'll never be another count of blood cells. I hope that no one will ever question the loyalty of our minorities again because the loyalty of our minorities to the state today is unquestionable as I also believe that the highest officials of this country, that I do not mention them, will not talk about the shared loyalty for the citizens of Istria, Rijeka, the Primorje-Goran County that will exercise the right and take this Croatian-Italian citizenship. Me too. I'll speak plainly. That's why I'm not happy. I'd be happy if we were one of Austria so nobody would think about that passport. But I'm also the last person to defend this to these people because just if it goes that way against these people, these spaces will be destabilised, and against the destabilising of these areas, we can only protect ourselves with honest minority policy if we really integrate into our legal standard of European gain and learn some of these historical lessons. On page 6, you have information on how many identity cards have been issued in the language and letter of the national minorities. 2003. 8206 for: Italian minority 8097 of those 8206, for Serbian 103, for Hungarian 5, for Czech 1. That's probably our colleague. In 2004, 4591 means that identity card in the minority language. Of these 4591 Italians took 4454, Serbs 133, Hungarians 4 cards. What's he saying? That minority members are more freely expressed in Istria mainly by Italians who have raised 12,797 cards from 12,551. All the others, all the minorities only 246. And that number tells you gentlemen how many Croatian-Italian citizenships will eventually be? Today we have 8047. Finally, it means so much somewhere else because it does not forget that this passport will also be requested by many who are of Slavic origin; Croats, Slovenians clearly working in Italy and thus resolve their existence. What does that information say about these IDs? If the position of minorities was still not as great as our laws say, or our politicians, especially those who were in 1990, we know what positions they were in, and today they should become the protectors of minorities. It also speaks of a kind of uncertainty because if you plead as a minority member, it doesn't seem to be good. It is commendable that in 2004, the government for its protection I do not know the Serbian churches issuing 3 million kuna plus 350 thousand kuna for their mobile goods. Clearly with the Roman Catholic Church, we have a concordate. There's over 200 million kuna, but we have some similar contracts with other concessions in those areas. What's certainly good to say the Muslims have in the military or in the military, I don't know what to call a pandan to our office. And it's certainly something that few armies in the world have. Today, I think the biggest problem in minorities is the return of the Serb population. We also have problems with Roma, and I would like to say that their status in Istria is incomparably different from in some other parts of the Republic of Croatia. It's a good thing we have this cop in the community, extremely well, and maybe they could make sure that there are fewer racial incidents, conflicts with minority members, and so on. The clear biggest problem is the return of the Serb population. I told me today by statistics we have 380 thousand Serbs less than 1991. It's back around 120,000 in the meantime. As much as that is, it's formal. Is it really 70, 80, 90 that's less important? In 1995, 95, 100, 120 thousand Serbs fled from Krajina. Mostly who's coming back? The old men return to where they were born and buried. Sometimes it escalates violence against Serbs. It can't happen, it can't be tolerated. She reacts mostly with lateness. How's the renovation going? After 20,000 collapsed buildings in the Krajina area? So we can say that somewhere around 50% of these buildings have been restored according to Mr. Pupovac's words, which should also be welcomed. I don't know why you're reacting to me now. How's it going, however, by opening jobs in those environments? Maybe now, in Costa Rica, where a nice coalition like this agreed to make me a cynic for the better. But such coalitions compromise I would say parties to the left province but what do I mean? Local self-government is paused, deposed, and unless we strengthen the gentlemen's fiscal capacity that we talked about yesterday, and this is primarily possible through one decentralisation and through jobs, and the environment will become only I would say occasional weekend of violence. There's also a pension problem Mr. Gajica was talking about. To end the position of minorities, we must admit it is changing for a better clarity and because in 2006 it is not possible to conduct a policy like 1996. Clearly, it's been 10 years since the war. I don't think the position of minorities is better because of "Christ Be Born" or "Bongional" but that praise was worth the message, too. And because of that, I don't think that the position of minorities is better that they participate in power is part of the ruling coalition, but their position is changing among other things because today some other times, some other topics are current. Some other topics dominate our interests. Today, we also have no one to blame for the economic situation. Today, Croatia is not being threatened by anyone. We're in danger of something else today. It is clear that in the area of minorities by the European Union, Croatian authorities are being tested and it is good that there are no more problems in terms of restoration or return, nor about dual citizenship nor about the financing of minority communities. No trades with the neighborhood. Nor about the status of religious communities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The problem today when minorities are by comparison is the double right to vote. So this positive discrimination and the clear security of the return of people who decide to return to their hearths. If we could be safer, maybe the intensity of the return would be higher. If there were more jobs but that is the general problem of all in the country, the problem would be much smaller. In one word, I will end up as I started Croatia having appropriate minority legislation, there are no doubts there are some gaps. And that, year after year, he's moving for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59387	Thank you. Eight corrections of incorrect allegations and one proposal to stick to accurate terminology or to termise with regard to the labelling of certain political concepts such as landscapes etc. It has its own clear meaning. Let's get to those corrections. First respected representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59388	Mr. President, I would correct two false allegations and not correct many of the good allegations Mr. Cain made. The first is that we gave up that any of the minority MPs gave up positive discrimination in the vote. Half an hour ago we were at the President of the Republic with that question, we asked him that question and we got Mr. President's support, which means of course we're constantly dealing with it. And not only that, but the agreement I have with Mr. Sanader states that I will continue to stand for the so-called. double, better said, additional voting rights although, of course, HDZ disagrees. Another allegation is that Italian citizenship will be possible for those of non-Italian origin. That's not true. That's not possible under the law. They'll only get descendants of Italian minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59389	Okay. Second correction by the respected representative of Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59390	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59391	Third Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59392	Thank you. Well, enough of this fellow Cain said what should be corrected and I will remain as Mr. Radin at this positive discrimination and the claim that almost everywhere minorities have twice the right to vote except in Croatia. It is simply not true because what rights and rights Croats have in Republika Srpska and Serbia-Montenegro when I spoke on the board and advocated the right of reciprocity then I got an agreement that would not be good because they are at that level and we are away, we have to provide them with far, far greater rights that they achieve. But here I want to say because today is about this proposal that Croats in Republika Srpska and we have to take care of the environment in which we live, they have no right to return, they have no right to property and often have times when lives are threatened. So it's an environment, and when we're having these discussions, then we have to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59393	Fourth correction by the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59394	It is incorrect, however, to a certain extent, and an offensive allegation that colleagues of Cain are being punished in Croatia by those parties who advocate minority rights. That's what I'm saying. I'm sorry, as a member of the Social Democratic Party, I don't feel a bit punished or the party is punished for favouring minority rights. Or it's about some exclusive understanding and copyright to protect minority rights from fellow Caine. And as for those who should be given Italian citizenship, nothing is questionable except whether this is explained by the occupation of part of Croatian territory during the Kingdom of Italy as one of the criteria on which it would be obtained. We are absolutely against it, especially those who were under Italy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59395	Honorable representative Kruno Peronja rectification of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59396	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! A wrong colleague said it has repeated several times that minorities feel better and resolve themselves in the Istrian County. Namely, the data in Split-Dalmatia are impeccable from formal and legal decisions to providing technical opportunities for the meeting, for the selection, too, and in the town of Split where the established councils of the Serbian, Montenegrin, Slovenian and Macedonian national minorities were established and a representative of the Hungarians was elected. Namely, it is also almost offensive where a colleague cites a raw nationalist passion. At the time, it was a folk enthusiasm that could only be created in such a way, founded the Croatian state, arranged as its Croatian home.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59397	Next correction by respected representative Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59398	In the culinary dictionary, this difficult complexion is questionable indigestion and statues of incorrect allegations and then I'll just quote two. And this is that in some way fair elections in Croatia, so counterpart Cain in any way is all the elections in the Croatian state are legally very fair and the local administration's statement is paused and it's quite incorrect. So local administration and self-government have exactly the powers of as much money as we gave her in law and we discussed it yesterday all day. And don't "incontinuity" create real inaccuracies and evil blood where you don't need it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59399	And respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59400	It is incorrect that fellow Cain claimed that there was no problem with religious communities. Maybe it wasn't in the papers, so he doesn't know it, but when he mentioned that matter himself that has nothing to do with minority rights now, maybe only in an indirect way. And many religious communities that are registered in Croatia as a religious community are based on a strange conclusion and a secret conclusion by the Government that is not publicly published to these same religious communities were refused the right to conclude, even though by law they have the right to conclude a treaty with the state, so that these religious communities had to seek their right, their legal and constitutional right through the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59401	That's the government's secret conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59402	Yeah. It's kind of like a rabbit decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59403	We don't know anything about him. We don't know anything about him about that secret conclusion. So we ask the government to give us that secret conclusion. Honorable representative Zdenka Chuhil for the National Minority Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59404	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Respect for human rights and freedoms where national minority rights are certainly included, the degree of their protection is certainly a reflection of every country's democratisation and stability. The Republic of Croatia has assumed the signing of many international agreements to protect the affirmation and respect for the rights of national minorities, which it has incorporated into its national legislation, above all the Constitutional Law on minority rights and then two special laws. Three years since the adoption of the Constitutional Law, i.e. five years after the adoption of the Law on Education in the Languages of National Minorities and the Law on Official Use of Minority Language, we have received the first report on their implementation, which indicates the state of minority rights in the Republic of Croatia. At first, I have to say that the report is incomplete, superficial, but first I want to point it right at the gaps and what it is necessary to fix. It is not enough to conclude that we have good legislation and therefore respect for, that is, the quality of respect for, minority rights. Just implementation at the level of units of local self-government indicates a series of violations both of the law and of human and minority rights. The right to private and public use of minority language is completely free and is not subject to legal regulation. Unfortunately, he is at lower levels of the mustache with equal official use of minority languages in front of state administration authorities and local and regional self-government bodies, which is regulated by the Law on the Use of Language and Letters. Today, 61 units of local self-government have been incorporated into the statutes of equal use of minority language. In 27 units this right is regulated by the foundation of one third of the minority population. Five rights are granted by means of bilateral contracts, of which certainly two have acquired the right and the basis of one third of the population, which makes up 30 units of local self-government. As well as the fact that 31 units have acquired local self-government or more than 50% bilingualism, there is no answer either in this report or in the relevant ones, although it is known that these units have acquired this right by virtue of the rights acquired, Article 2(2). Constitutional law on official use of language. There is no answer because there would have to be an analysis of what is wrong with the other units of local self-government that have the same right, but the local powers don't want to implement it, the statutes of those units of local self-government are so far out of line and the Ministry of Justice today the Central Office of the State Administration is doing nothing to enforce and comply with the law. Moreover, advice is given on how to avoid and not implement the law, allowing the local self-government councils to vote whether or not to implement the law of the Republic of Croatia and without sanctions. If this is added to the fact that bilingualism is not applied even where the statute is harmonised, obviously we should all be concerned and we should review this situation. Similarly, the implementation of the regional minority language charter signed by the Republic of Croatia in 97 years is not respected. Again, we have an alleged sensitized state policy, but at lower levels of implementation, there is no. In achieving the right to education and education in the languages of national minorities, it has gone the farthest. In part, this is the result of the fact that the 90 years of the constitution or the formation of the Republic of Croatia did not result in an interruption of teaching in the languages of national minorities, but merely the abolition of certain rights that were returned by the new law in 2000. Bilingual documentation has been returned, and minority advisors have been working again since 2005, whose realization has been pending for five years, but the fact that they are working today and solving the problems of minority education means progress. The third problems are with minority school textbooks where, in addition to the lack of financial resources, the greater the problem makes the spending of funds, the lack of criteria for textbooks, summer schools, education of teaching staff and all the way to scholarships. Thus, a minority who has no minority language education from the same ministry and a position for textbooks for national minorities could also receive 500 thousand kuna a year, while those who have schools in the languages of national minorities will be denied. The course takes place either entirely in minority language, model A or in particular social objects in minority, and naturally in Croatian model B. A special model is language care for five hours, model C which includes language, culture, history, geography and religion. The model is unacceptable, unacceptable for children, parents, school, but also for lack of qualified staff and thus unprofessional teaching. Five hours is impossible specifically to schedule in the five-day working week and children have to go to classes on Saturdays that burden them themselves, parents, as well as a school that has higher expenditures. History and geography are hard to find teachers who know minority language, so teaching is unprofessional. For five years now, it has been trying to promote a three-hour model by national minorities, to promote a three-hour language plus an hour of culture that would be acceptable to everyone. Unfortunately, because of the tromility of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports or perhaps even calculatedly, this model is not legalized. If you go to the primary language class, it restricts children in the selection of other subjects, which is also unacceptable. When we talk about cultural autonomy, the development and demonstration of our own culture with the aim of maintaining tradition and identity, it happens through 375 associations that are also funded from the state budget. But the problem is that already three articles aimed at protecting and promoting the interests of members of national minorities can form an association, daily we witness the creation of new associations that often involve ethnic business and not always the protection and promotion of the rights and interests of minorities. When adopting the laws on associations, we warned that it was necessary to regulate associations of national minorities and their establishment that could not be the same as an association of migratory birds, butterfly observers, etc. that we have not achieved as we have not even achieved the definition of self-recognition which has opened the avalanche of associations from new economic or migration minorities which have also begun to focus on budget funds. The report pays great attention to the museum's archival literary activity, although minorities and minority associations have little influence on it. It is good that the Ministry of Culture supports and finance the work of the central libraries of minorities but it is difficult to explain that the central libraries of national minorities are not where the highest concentration of minorities is. So, for example. The central library is waiting in Bjelovar where 150 Czechs or the central library of Russian and Ukrainians are registered in Zagreb instead of Slavonski Brod and Vukovar. How to explain that funds for art, multimedia and museum activities are allocated only to one or two minorities, except that there are no known criteria for all. It is similar with the publication of books and literary magazines funded by the Ministry of Culture. Access to the means of public communication is the area where the least seems to be, although legally it could be said that there are no problems. Although the HRT Act has been prescribed that HRT is obliged to produce and publish emissions intended to inform members of national minorities for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible, so far no chronicles in minority languages have been returned, and minority languages on HRT can rarely be heard and even in the Prizma itself. As far as the Italian minority is concerned, thanks to the proximity of the regional radios of Pula, the Italians can be satisfied with the information, about which a colleague, equally a minority of Hungary, will be informed because of the regional proximity of Osijek Radio where the Hungarian minority is certainly informed and, in practice, because of the financing of HRT with 70% of the subscription, normally there are no problems, but the rest of the minorities are as informed as they succeed... funds and advice for national minorities units of local self-government because local media as commercial companies exclusively have a commercial relationship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Radio and television stations have the basis of Article 18. The constitutional law must produce and broadcast emissions intended for members of national minorities in order to protect and culture and traditions, unfortunately almost nowhere is implemented even though units of local self-government should bear responsibility but I will talk about it more when I talk about minority councils. As far as minority press is being financed from the state budget as part of cultural autonomy, there has been major progress and now there are minorities on how to make this information as high as possible and as accessible to every minority member as possible. It is necessary to improve the criteria within the Council for National Minorities in order to be transparent as to which minorities will be financed and what is included in the commercial press. The constitutional law stipulates that members of the national minorities ensure representation in the authorities of the state administration and the judicial authorities, there were speeches here, we know that this representation is below 3%, that the composition of minorities is 747 and therefore if we look at the judiciary, if we look at the Ministry of the Interior, that representation is at the lowest level. Croatia is defined as the national state of Croatian peoples and members of national minorities and as such would have to implement the ethnic census because a number of rights are defined by ethnicity, and it is in the state to find a way to ensure data protection and secrecy. The fact is that an excuse for someone's belonging is unknown, and therefore the Constitutional Law does not justify the body of the state administration and local administration and does not amnest them for not implementing the law, but it is also normal and the right of an individual to consume that right. Minority self-government or participation of national minorities in public life and local affairs management through minority councils and newspaper representatives is in Croatia. It was defined for the first time by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities 2002. In the May elections in 2003 as well as in 2004 on... Around 70% of the councils have been elected, unfortunately they are not all established today, much of them are not working, or out of 250 councils of 338 selected are registered, 90 of them have not yet started working after three years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problems are numerous, from the constitution, because the problem was not done by the mayors or mayors to the lack of minimum logistics, meaning simplicity and minimum means of working to insufficient education, which are the rights and obligations of the council. I must say, three years since the Constitutional Law, many municipalities and cities have not harmonised their statutes because there is no responsibility or sanctions. Some units of local self-government apply the law on a partial basis, i.e. city and municipal councils are outlining who will apply what and what will not from the law. The question of what has been done by the competent ministry, or what is the Central Office for the State Administration that has not yet adopted the sublegal act, i.e. I must say that the sublegal act has yet been passed 1.3, so I am correcting myself. As the minority self-government is with us, it has been chosen for the first time and a series of shortcomings that should be discussed in these reports, which should be under way and the adoption of a new law, as well as in the course of work that should be corrected. The issue is financing and promoting elections for minority councils where a colleague here said 15 million were spent. My colleagues, no, 35 million were spent, 22 times, 15 times, or 37, but not for the promotion and not for the financing of the direct work of minority councils, but above all for election committees. The number of polling stations in one local self-government unit is unfortunately only one thing that means changing it to be as much as the unit does. The voter lists are inconsistencies and in general the question is whether all environments should be selected by minority councils because where the minority is most I think this should be brought to an end and the same as it means... Members of the national minority in one small community, say, with 3,000 inhabitants, or what 100 or 200 members of the national minority are the basis for selecting councils, and when talking about 800,000 inhabitants and the relationship where they are not known and where they are not organised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must stress that in 2004. The National Minorities Office played a very important role in doing so, the National Minorities Council, which does work very hard on the allocation of funds, but I think that far more should work on promoting the rights of national minorities, respect the recommendations of the Committee, Ministers, the Council of Europe on the application of the Charter of Regional Languages, and I will try to cut short because I see that time points out, normally, that the tactical listing done without a thorough implementation analysis does not respond to the implementation and creation of minority policy and remains more at the declarative level, because it is necessary to think of how a strategy in the area of education of teachers would be spent on the necessary measures to use minority languages and to what I have talked about the elections of national minorities that should be held with the local self-government units elections because less funds would be spent and would probably be more high quality and because of the polling stations. And one more sentence, Mr. President. I must say that the National Minority Club will be restrained, and some want to vote against this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59405	Thank you. At 12 and 56, it was time for a debate of 10 minutes on this agenda point. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59406	So the colleague claimed that the problems with the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities were at local level, and that the Government, however, was highly sensitive to law enforcement. That's simply not true, and that's not exactly what you're witnessing, and the conclusion that the same government made, you know when? Well, we also found very interesting and quite accidentally, and found out about it, on July 22, 2005, and you see that conclusion that is contrary not only to the Constitutional Law but also to the Constitution, and therefore the Government itself violates the Constitutional Law and the Constitution, and what is it about? So the government has given guidance to all units of local self-government that since it will solve minority representation in local self-government units in a manner, please do not have the relevant results of the 2001 census but of the 2001 census.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59407	State Secretary Želimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59408	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. I am pleased to hear that the esteemed representative Chuhnil, speaking of this report, has very commended her on what was done with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in cooperation, so these are the problems we are solving together with you. So if you want to go along with Mrs. MPs, and I am particularly pleased that you have highlighted these six advisors that we have appointed in cooperation with you and who are now doing their job and we hold that this problem has been resolved at this point. But I want to give you one exact piece of information when you were talking about programs or when you mentioned a three-hour model. The accuracy therefore works from the ministry assistant Mirko Markovic and in collaboration with the Institute of Education is working on the verification of programmes that are not verified and, of course, is also considering this three-hour model. I don't see any reason why he won't be accepted. This, of course, begins at the beginning of the school year and I am sure that this job will be completed and that since the beginning of the school year we can count on this finished job, and of course all the other problems that life brings that we will solve with you and I hope that you will be as happy as you are with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59409	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramaric for the HSLS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59410	Dear Mr. President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know how Mr. President's Rules of Procedure is supposed to do that, but I'd be willing to give my colleague Radin five minutes if he didn't get angry. No joke aside. I think here colleague Cain has raised this question, should we be pessimistic or optimistic about respecting the implementation of minority rights in the Republic of Croatia? We're always here somewhere in a situation like the one looking at half a glass of water, so for the optimist, it's half full, and for the pessimist it's half empty, but the facts remain the same. But in this way I am still trying to prepare for this debate to recall all those events about the adoption of constitutional law in this House. All those nerves that were then ruled. All those heated debates, agreements on how to get off this public stage, but it was even more interesting in those towers, in the halls of the government, and in some other places where we really want to be a little self-critical then we'll say that we're not every time nor what usually belongs to those individuals who say to themselves that the left and right each time stood out with a civil-liberal attitude about minority rights. But thank God that law was passed. And now that this impartially from a distance of three years we're looking at it, we can say that a very good job has been done. That a job that was unforgivable was done and that just by passing this law, one of the European Croatians, the tolerance of Croatia, the democratic Croatia, the decent Croatia, and all of us can be proud of it. We also remember right after that constitutional law could then the then prime minister go to Athens and somehow just apply, open up the whole, all of these processes that are now happening. And it didn't take much time. Already there, in late November 2003, after those elections, a step further took place and minorities participated, participated in the government or supported the same political option that realised that only with one transparent, correct minority policy could be europeanised Croatia, can be modernised. I'm not going to talk about "Christ Be Born" or "Bongionary." This may seem to us at first sight to be symbolic moves, to have this very one character, but they did indeed show no matter what was before the people who, politicians who saw the same way about the problem, saw a significant turn in Croatia at one national level. And these are the things I say that must make us and should make us happy and happy and satisfied and sometimes it seems to me that we are too much masochists, so things and in our own country we see kudikamo or we see them more ugly than they actually are. It is the same Croatia on this legislative basis at the level of legislation has gone much further, much further than many countries in Europe and the world. I really don't know any countries in Europe, let someone deny me I'll be, I'll admit to him that, I don't know, rights are founded on three levels. That it may also be a representative in Parliament and that at the same time, that at the same time it must be participated in local self-government where the number of members of the minority is above a certain percentage and that there are still councils. These are really these things that just show that one decent democratic, toleranceal face of Croatia. A country that realized it was multicultural. That the right to the difference, that there is, that this right to the difference should be respected and respected in all segments of life. Public, political, cultural, estradino. Wherever you want. And those are the facts. And then I can say that as a man who comes from this liberal option and who is exactly this, some liberal worldview is, these are actually the kind of attitudes that are really the most normal and in no way him, in any way I really shouldn't be too excited or excited, but it's always good when it becomes a standard. And after that, you really can't go under those standards anymore. I'm not going to say there's no problem, but what I'd like to do here is be a clear message, which is that it's not a system policy. And those excesses that happen that we can read from time to time in the papers that, in a quick and effective way, the rule of law solves them. That indeed no one in this country can claim the right to discriminate, chicanize just because I don't know belongs to another nation or another religion. And that these are things that need to be spoken of honestly and openly. I say I'm an optimist on that side, and it really turns out that these 15 years we've done a very important step. When I talked about these problems, then certainly the problem of Roma remains one of these same burning problems, and we hope that we will know about this problem in a peaceful way without any euphoria, without any cleaning up the problem under the carpet, making a new policy. I'm not going to say I'm as cynical as you say and think that winning is one cute guy on some show who happens to be a member of the Roma nation that has solved all the problems of the Roma in Croatia, that because of that their position is sudden, but that also says something that is precisely because he was not ashamed of his or her origins and that he clearly declared that yet they voted the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that is what they recognized first of all the nice guy and I say and that, he showed the same thing and offered a different face of Croatia. It doesn't need to be ignored either, it doesn't need to be modified, it doesn't have to make any euphoria, but it also shows this very willingness and this sensitivity that some things are simply experienced and understood just as, I don't know, as a game, as fun. And there's no figs in his pocket. In fact, at the end of the day, they say, whenever a young lady who also happened to belong to a minority nation was one of his main opponents, and now that one of these female associations has also been sensitizing the public to show exactly how this problem and problem is in Croatia... It can be solved so this competition, in the end I say, has just got one, how do we say, one national character. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it has re-legited Croatia in some way as a democratic and toleranceal society. But I'm saying, these excesses, these incidents that happen, they really do say, we can't ignore them, we can't marginalize them, but we just have to ask the system institutions to act quickly, efficiently and normally in accordance with everyone... the laws of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just because every actual such event he doesn't actually take place on this civic... how it should take place, but unfortunately it can always get this unpleasant and national, and be nationally impregnated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say that I belong to that party who has always insisted from this assembly there in '99, I remember that there were some variations, some electoral law. One of our proposals was just that positive discrimination. To make it possible in some way. Although I'm saying, picking out minority advocates still has a whole series of these theoretical dilemmas, issues that should first and foremost solve the theory, solve the waist. Exactly because of their general character, but actually just choosing in a different way. But I'm saying, these are the same things that need to be achieved here full consensus as they did at the end of 2001, in early 2002, when we passed that constitutional law on national minorities. What's certainly the same thing as good, it's that in this country we're carrying out the process of integration, certainly not the process of assimilation, and it's precisely that none of us are doing national democracy but doing civil democracy where that principle of an individual citizen would in some way have to be the taste of all our projects. I have to admit I'm here reading, this is how you always know these extensive, there was a short, short report just now, so it's no good. Then they're, these are much more extensive and then they say again, they're no good. But let's just say, I came across the data, and I've never done anything special about it. In Osijek-Baranja County, for example, the representation of members of Serbian nationality is slightly less than 9% and representation in these services is more than 12% of state and city services. It is also true, I must admit, that there is also a great share of the City of Osijek city administration that has really been in place since the very beginning of these last 15 years when I was led by one express sensitivity and exactly where we chose people according to expertise and competence, and where this, this national element was not exactly more important. But I'm saying, statistics are always like that to prove what we really want to prove. But aside and statistics, aside and legitimate. Simply this everyday life where Parliament is right now, so the government, so these institutions, so the education system is actually very important for this very process of integration. And indeed to say then that Croatia continues to legitimize itself just as one, I say, small, proud but decent democratic and European modern state. In this regard, the HSLS Club will give full support to this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59411	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59412	Thank you very much. So the over-representation of minorities in this part of Croatia in which Mr Kramaric spoke, in state and city services, is still not the result of some thoughtful policy but above all the signed Erdut Agreement. And unfortunately, there's as much as that average is above it, so, which is good, it's in the other middle of it. In fact, I think you should think right now that this rule that was imposed there is actually being expanded and implemented throughout Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59413	Comrade Lucin, this is one explanation, isn't it? Explanation of the structure in Osijek-Baranja County. ... under the firm's correction of incorrect allegations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's forgiven today. And respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59414	Thank you, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The government has sent us this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law as required by law with a full delay of one year. The media is already talking about it in the announcements of this point. But there's not much debate about it here, and it's not a problem at all. What do we care, get a report in two years, five years, 10 years. It's kind of like screening. So the further maybe the better, huh? It is not enough that only minorities support the government so that we believe that the problem that was great in Croatia is solved. Here all the MPs talked about it, including the Government's representative, as it is indeed and now we all stick together with the Constitutional, our Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. If we remember that time and the time of the coalition government when this Law was passed and finally passed, it was painfully passed. However, he was brought. His execution remained a painful task of this, but also of any other authority. Here you see, while the prime minister quite encouragingly congratulates one of our national minorities, specifically Serbs, Christmas with the words "Christo is born", noting that some new times have come in Croatia. Some still think that those times have not passed but will never pass. You see, this report says a lot about things, about things, about money, so that's how we admire how we help minorities. Of course, without funds and without money, there is no exercise of any single right. That's perfectly clear. Yes, right, that is, its implementation costs just as much as it costs all the good things. But it's not about people here, it's a big problem with this report, a little team of those words about a man, about a minority, about a member of a national minority. It's about schools, it's generally a bureaucratic report that's not good, which essentially doesn't want to get into the essence of the problem. I'm sorry here that they didn't have the courage or some who spoke for the minorities, but they're not only well-invited to talk about them, and in that report there's not one single line that gives a few the right not to overrun, but also the right taken away, let's say the right to live. That in just one year, the last one had 38 incidents of an attack on members of the Serb minority, that only one had been discovered, and the question was whether it would be resolved and how. These are the problems that you see in this report there is not a single word. Representatives of the Serb minority here are the Serb Democratic Party, which is in coalition with HDZ, so they represent the ruling one, however, is just sure and encouraged by the events on the ground, wanted to initiate a debate on the 13th of December 2005 to the Human Rights Committee. The HDZ opposed it and said there was no such thing, that the basic reports there were the police, precisely because of the frequent attacks on Serb minority members at the time, and then it was said whether by representatives of some of our HDZ colleagues here that this should not be debated, that the police were doing their job. However, I think that we should take good care of it, Mr Jurica Malcic said that it is certainly necessary to discuss the problem of the attack on Serbs in Croatia, as well as on that committee. That's what he said. You see our public defender. Last year's OSCE representative precisely recapitalising the situation on the ground said a recent trend of violence against national minorities has been visible in Croatia. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the OSCE High Representative said. Then HHO's representative just warned the public about the poor results of all investigations in these attacks with physical, brutal consequences and the deaths of a few people. There's not a word about that. I don't think that's good, it's not good because these things need to be talked about so that they really will be contained and that this message of peace, tolerance at the end of the day and our common help to develop democratic institutions of the demographic institutions are developing, they don't come out simply by the will of the legislator and so be it, and then the next day immediately so. It is a hard work that certainly takes time and effort together. So in this respect and as we must advocate ourselves as promoters of the protection of rights, the rule of law and human rights in general, but in particular work on education for these values. There's no such thing in our schools. It has been promised so many times, it is our obligation to European standards, but there is no such thing in our school, either through other colleges or teaching units, either in primary schools or in secondary schools. At times, at least in a way, it was talked about in kindergarten. That the government has serious problems with its declarative nature and I'm already doing it in a replica, that is, correcting an incorrect quote, now I'm going to do a little bit more detail on this, that this particular government on July 22, 2005 has reached a conclusion that violated this Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and our Constitution. In this conclusion, it is literally because all units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and before the regular elections did not comply with their statutes in accordance with the Law on the selection of members of the local self-government units and therefore order them to, I quote, that they are obliged to do so in a way that the relevant and official results of the 2001 census, while the government boasts that it is in the programme, boasts more outside than at home. When it leaves it tells how many members of the national minorities, specifically the Serbs returned, how many houses were restored to them and so, and now that they have to exercise their right under the Constitutional Law, based on this law that we passed somewhere last year in the spring just before the local elections, then there's another story. But it's not like that everywhere. Where members of the Serb minority were also on HDZ lists, there is no problem, not by election results, but by law and by application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, as well as this Law relating to elections for representative bodies of local self-government units, as in Virovitsk-Podravska County is applied without a problem. However, it cannot be applied in one of Zadar, as that member of the national minority is not on that list. There is one single flaw, to be applied this Law is not on the HDZ list, but on the list of some other coalitions. And that's exactly what we asked for, and the data on how many numbers there are, how many members of the national minorities, so this information is incorrect here, it's incorrect. Now it is not known whether it refers to 2003 or 2004, it is not visible. So in the Zadar area, or Zadar County, you claim that there are 3 wholes I don't know 6%, in any case you should go to the 12th from the list in Zadar, and Mr. Palaric won't hear about it, but in this way he serves the prime minister that he has to sign this conclusion, which he wrote to him. I believe the Prime Minister certainly didn't ask him to, but he did so against the law. So, according to the voter lists alone, you have 11.2% of the Serb minority voters in Zadar County, so I do not say that voters are also residents, because they do not all live and stay in the area, however. In any case, this 3.2% information is not correct. And I'm like this, the fact that this came at two years, with a year late that we don't have a 2003 report here, especially for 2004 all together is against the law. Therefore, something that is contrary to the law can not only be made out of these formal but also on its own for these content reasons which I have only partly said because there is much, it cannot be discussed in ten minutes or listed those violations but we are leaving it perhaps for another occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59415	Thank you. Now we'll stop the debate, continue with the replicas. The honourable representative of Sima Lucin, then Jure Bitunjac, has replicas, and then the respected representative Nenad Stazic. Ladies and gentlemen, continue the session. Replica is a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Replicated to a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59417	... I'm sorry my colleague's missing, but I'm still going to say one sentence, Mr. President, quite briefly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, my replica refers to the part where Mrs Ingrid Marinovic spoke about the political position of minority political representatives. I personally believe that it is not important for the position of minorities in Croatia in the position of their political representatives. However, what needs to be borne in mind is that, nevertheless, the question of how political, political representatives of minorities behave is, in fact, a certain responsibility. In fact, my responsibility in the opposition and responsibility of whoever participates in power is certainly not the same in any part or spectrum of political issues and political life, so neither in political nor then in representing minorities. I personally believe that it is more logical that political representatives of minorities are with authority for a simple reason because they represent certain specific interests and will certainly be easier to achieve these interests in such a way than to be in opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59418	Thank you. The reply to the replica will be gone for the time being. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Replica Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The history of relations with minority communities in these areas is on the one hand rich and on the other hand often took place in very dramatic circumstances. On the eve of the world... In the first half of the last century, one lofty and romantic understanding of the national degraded to nationalist or Nazi. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that freakish ideology of blood and soil has unfortunately found echoes in these areas. This led to unprecedented crimes in which the cause of the crime was solely motivated by the victim's nationality. Resistance to this ideology was given by the People's Liberation Fight in World War II. And brotherhood and unity have become naive, perhaps but a magic formula for resolving national issues. For 45 years, this philosophy was an official state policy, so minority rights were raised to the level of holiness. The nationalist rampage of Slobodan Milosevic and his followers has sparked a chain reaction across the countries of the former Yugoslavia and ultimately led to a war conflict. The consequences of that war are still felt today. Apparently, towards minorities, minority communities and their relationship with the Republic of Croatia were significantly influenced by the policy implemented by HDZ during its first administration. The famous precisely legendary remains the memory of the first Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tudjman, that he is happy that his wife is neither Jewish nor Serbian. Unfortunately, the president, in such a display of impatience towards another, different and generally weaker, has been joined by others. He didn't stay alone. The systematic robbery and arson of thousands of Serbian houses after a brilliant, professionally executed "Storm" action aimed at reducing the concentration of the Serb minority in the Republic of Croatia and succeeding.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59420	My colleague I will ask you seriously to stick to the topic: Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia without entering such assessments. You have now embarked on accusing a political party of the Croatian Democratic Union, marking it as the cause and culprit and responsible for various crimes and indifferences. It doesn't match, first I won't open up here or allow here a debate on the subject because it's a debate that causes evil blood, and the second one is out of the question. So please stick to this particular topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59421	On 3 January 2000, there was a change in government after the elections. And in this respect, the situation is significantly improving. However, it should be said that something has been missed and done in that period, which could have been done first and foremost, in the change of electoral legislation. It is missed to introduce an additional right to vote for minorities, because at that time it was interpreted completely wrongly as a double right to vote which it is not. Since minority representatives choose a limited number of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of their response to the elections, their vote cannot be seen in this respect as a double vote, but rather as their right to vote on the political lists of those parties they believe can best ensure for them in Parliament the protection of minority rights, and on the other hand to exercise their constitutional right under the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and on the other lists, on the other hand, they choose their own representatives without giving up their civil rights in political decision. After the last elections, the new government of Ivo Sanader is turning a new page and it should be recognised for a significant change in attitude towards national minorities. Compared to that first HDZ administration I was talking about and why I was interrupted. What does that affect most? Probably an election result. The need to create a parliamentary majority to vote in confidence with the Government and with the presence, with the participation of not only minority representatives, but also the SDSS. This allowed the government to vote, but at the same time made minority representatives an important factor in state policy. Those representatives who can indeed effectively fight for minority rights because their support depends on the existence of the government. It must be acknowledged that the Prime Minister himself has shown at a level that should be followed. He congratulated for the first time as Croatian Prime Minister for the Orthodox believers and after that, his Christ was born nothing in Croatia was the same. Thus, a civilized civilised behavior became a standard which as we can see is respected for years afterwards and will likely remain as a tradition of behaviour in the Republic of Croatia. Are all the problems solved? No, and it would be naive to expect that they could be in a short period of time. There's still a problem, a big problem coming back, because that return isn't fully met. The restoration is, but the big problem is the purchase of properties that used to be in the housing regime. Just because a number of our former citizens, and also today's citizens, are Serbian nationalities, the problem has not been solved for the Croats either. In Vukovar, a large number of Croats were unable to submit an application for an apartment within the deadline. They lived in a housing system. They couldn't because there was no postal traffic between Vukovar and Zagreb. To whom do you make a request? Well, I guess not to the authorities, they wouldn't admit it anyway. Therefore, due to objective circumstances, they were prevented from using one of the rights that other citizens of this country had the right to use. It's a problem to solve. It is a problem that stands before this government but also stands before representatives of minorities, representatives of the SDSS because their power is at this point due to the skeletal of political relations. Because by voting for government proposals, they're holding this government. Their power is objectively such that they can solve this problem not only for the benefit of the minority they represent here, but also for the benefit of Croats who are completely unjustly placed in this group of people of second order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59422	Thank you. Replica's respected representative, Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59423	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, I ask you why they sow the seeds of hatred in this House, the seeds of discord among Croatian citizens. When we see that relations, international relations, when it comes to both Croats and minorities that in the past few years not only have these relations gone according to certain standards and that this Croatian government in that field has achieved enviable results. I believe that in this Croatian House all the performances and representatives of national minorities are also in the spirit of co-existence. We, uh... life and tolerance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We live together. We have a common home of Croatia and why you are constantly returning to, in discussions you are returning to areas that are not subject to discussion. On the one hand, and on the other hand, why intolerance, hate sows over the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59424	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59425	I have to admit, I didn't get you very well. By which I sow hatred and impatience. I commended this government. I think I had arguments to commend her. And if I remembered the sentence of the late President Tudjman that he is happy that his wife is neither Jewish nor Serbian, then you cannot accuse me of spreading hatred and impatience, but you would have to accuse the author of that sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59426	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59427	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in any case, this government report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of the National Minority is for every praise, because the Croatian state which is also in some way the bearer of numerous democratic processes and changes in the territory of the former Yugoslavia has the right and obligation to boast with all those laws and agreements that the Government and President Sanader have, but also the previous governments that have worked. Because the status of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia is, by my judgment, extremely good. In this part of the national minorities are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and by the laws of all rights. And that they are not declarative confirms this report. I would like to look back at the beginnings of all these submitted reports and stress that indeed in the Croatian Assembly there are representatives of national minorities, almost all national minorities who exist and are located in the Republic of Croatia. Unlike the states in our environment that do not come to mind, good examples of the Republic of Croatia and in the right way and through the Croatian Parliament, but also through all the institutions of government, from regional and local self-government in all these units of local self-government are guaranteed the rights of national minorities right through organised access to the system of local, regional and most national legislative authorities. It is not enough to say that I support this report, but that each of us should actively contribute to making the rights of national minorities in Croatia even more secure, even greater. And of course it is my wish, and I believe that all parliamentary representatives feel equally secure and free in the Croatian state. As one of the people in the peaceful reintegration process was in charge of creating conditions of co-existence in the Vukovar-Srijem County, I can personally stress that at that time we made great efforts to create basic assumptions about the survival of Serbian and other national minorities in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, as well as the return of Croats by peaceful means to the territory of the Croatian Danube. And I believe that we are such a political victory and Croats, as well as all other members and national minorities and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that we have created good assumptions for future co-existence and for future relations between the Republic of Croatia and Vojvodina or the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. I'd like to point out here that it's exactly the fact that it's since '95. the year when it was registered in the Republic of Croatia 338 thousand and 618 returnees, of which Croats about 218 thousand and about 120 thousand minority citizens of Serbian nationality have so far been resolved or returned to the premises through the restoration of houses and the creation of basic conditions for most of these citizens. And of those refugees and displaced persons, it is estimated that we can still expect the need for housing from 20 to 25 thousand people. Through the implementation of the Sarajevo Declaration, the data exchange process with Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina should be speeded up, thus obtaining accurate information on potential returnees and providing them with a way to return to the Republic of Croatia. I would like to stress here that in areas of special state care, a total of 2 thousand and 440 families of former tenants have been resolved and taken care of inhabitantly, most of them in the city of Vukovar, in apartments that were renovated by the ministry. To resolve the remaining 5 thousand 236 demands of former tenants, of which a thousand 719 are related to users who are already temporarily staying in their apartments, and for them it is necessary to complete the administrative procedure for determining the right to housing, and 3 thousand 517 requests do not involve users for whom housing facilities should be provided. And in that part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Resolute Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development is also working on a public information campaign in cooperation with the OSCE in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro, where it wants to animate all those who are not properly informed that they can use their right to rebuild and thus provide themselves with basic preconditions for returning to the Republic of Croatia. These funds spent on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities would be far greater if the Republic of Croatia did not have to allocate for the period 2003 and 2004, precisely for the construction of family houses, for the restoration of the residential infrastructure fund and everything else that must be done in 2003, 863 million, 823 thousand and 708 kuna. For 2004, a billion 811 million, 345 thousand and 047 kuna. And for 2005, which is not covered by this report, but it should be noted that 2 billion, 11 million 396 thousand and 090 kuna were spent. Of course, without basic assumptions of return, we can hardly discuss the provision of higher amounts from the state budget for the needs of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to stress here that he would be overjoyed if in our neighbouring Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, and mainly in Vojvodina, Srijem, Banat and Bačka, such rights would be guaranteed to Croats as a national minority as guaranteed to all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Last Saturday, I spoke to representatives of the Croatian National Council who informed me that there are certain movements of though declarative, but also Croatians and others want to actively engage in life and political life within Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, and it is up to us here to give full support to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, but to ask neighbouring countries for the same protection of minority rights as we offer here to other national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59428	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59429	Thank you, Mr. President. When I speak on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, then and now as a representative, I sign every sentence that I have said, but here in an individual debate, I will allow myself to express some personal opinions on not only this report of course but also, as all colleagues who have allowed themselves to speak a little bit more widely about the state of national minorities, and on the basis of this report for which I repeat that in this period to which it refers for 2003 and 2004, it corresponds to the real situation at the time, that today's real situation is much better and much different and that we expect it to back up with the 2005 report, and that, of course, every moment we are making progress so vividly to say both in this area and that it is undisputed as a representative of the government on all efforts, and that we are telling the representatives of the Committee that we are in this problem and sub-committees which we are present, hopefully contribute to the quality of the position not only of formal law that we are responsible and that we are able to ensure that we are able to ensure that we are able to do so that we are able to do so in the rightly, in the rightly, that we are able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to apply in the right in the right, in the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of So most European countries don't even know these solutions on paper, and these are the majority of the representatives who spoke here. I will just say that part of the problem arises from the very organisation of minorities, therefore not reducing the efforts of MPs representing certain minorities, often in the organisation of minorities themselves, and I guess the difficulties, so I will say, and among these advisors that we have employed, therefore the training of teachers to train in minority languages should in some way fall into the burden of minorities in the majority of ways, that those in their ranks are animated in some way, so that they accept this difficult job, because there is, of course, a teacher even where there are a number of children and where there is a logistic support and the possibility of an organisation, and yet I will repeat, all of them through every ten-year-old population, that fate falls in general, and then and minorities who, of course, have fought together with our people to say for a better social situation, so that all of them, and all the rest of them, and all of them, are less. So, at 400 or 300 and a few thousand unemployed that constitutional right of employment, so it's hard to achieve, it theoretically exists and I am, of course, for positive discrimination where it's possible, but I'm not that at all cost to be at the expense of quality, at the point of breaking the law going to hire even where it may not be objectively possible, someone just because the minority doesn't think that people might want it. And you often have a situation, so I'm going to say to the Chrysians who are a multicultural environment of the Vikings where there's a former military border and where people of different nationalities have exercised their civil rights not by the basis of their national belongings but by the basis of what they're professional, which they simply had the possibility of achieving and being a judge and right to be a lawyer, the right to be in the police and, of course, that's the case today. So when there was a choice for these national minority councils, there was no such response because simply people didn't feel the need or feel that they were in the hostile environment that they should be specially organised and there was one even to say a bad relationship within the community, because a very small number of people who went to the elections had chosen their own representatives and now they were asking a question that they were at all representing and that story that was happening to us in smaller environments, so where municipalities have no income, where they have very modest to say the incomes themselves is asking whether someone should just be hired, that someone should get some office because we in the town of Križevci provided, so the office and those amounts that need to be compensated and whether it is necessary for someone to say so or is the real need to point out now some of the issues that I repeat them were quite well solved and so far there are no additionally needed to register them, especially, and to be registered. And of course I'm glad that apart from having passed all the laws, the Croatian state has signed three bilateral agreements with Hungary, with the Italian Republic and with Serbia-Montenegro, but also there are problems, so these countries with which we have signed contracts recognise certain rights to members of our minorities, I am not so politically illiterate that I think we have the right to reciprocity in legal form, but at least we have moral reciprocity to talk about these rights, so. I will say only the following, that the Croats in Italy have been formally enabled to report certain tenders from the state budget, local budgets for their language budgets, so to speak, acquisitions, for certain cultural ones. But that it's so bureaucraticly difficult that it's practically impossible in practice. Therefore, the Italian State does not finance Croatia's minority and I must say that our people there wrote an open letter to President Champi, which supports its contribution, therefore, in the European Parliament that these rights are widely given to the Italians in Croatia, but also beg to be consistent and help in their country to do so. That's one thing. As for Serbia-Montenegro, a mixed committee has been formed under the agreement. He has held 2 meetings so far and we know the situation with the Serb minority in Croatia. So I'm not talking about return problems because it's not a national issue. The problem of refugee returns is a strategic state issue, it's not a question of a national minority, in my opinion, therefore. So, in Serbia, when Croatians are based on an agreement on the protection of the Croatian minority in Serbia to achieve what the Serb minorities have achieved here, they must finance it themselves, so in Croatia, the national community council has instructed the Croatian state with its own resources and the Croatian Consulate is doing it again. So, they don't work Serbian authorities. This is what we need now in these bilateral agreements, therefore, to insist as long as we have them, to respect the provisions of these agreements so that then, but quotaically, what we have provided here can also be provided to the Croatian people in neighbouring countries for which, of course, the most difficult situation in the countries of the former Yugoslavia is because they have suddenly found themselves in situations, therefore, that they are special, not minorities in separate countries. And there is an example of Slovenia which the Croats did not recognize as a national minority, of course. And a series of other problems. And based on that, of course, I'll accept the report as it is because for me it's a set of historical data, the figures are not sentimental. The numbers speak for themselves and interpretation is a little bit possible. And everything the government does is visible from a series of media inscriptions. I can say that in this case, I'm satisfied with the media that are monitoring this area intensively, so they're reporting every activity, and that's what I can say, and I'm going to end it. Therefore, the right to access the most important media, electronic, Croatian television, minorities have secured, i.e. the Croatian state has provided minorities through a prism that goes every week at a certain time per hour, per hour on the first programme that is seen much further and much more than is seen in the second programme on which two shows about Croatian minorities are submitted. So at some point that's less appropriate. Somewhere around 11 or 12 hours, you never know exactly what time, not even the time, is in double the duration. So, which is not seen where members of the Croatian people should look at it. So you can't even see it in Montenegro, you can't see it in the good part of Vojvodina. I'm talking about the second Croatian TV program. Now, in this whole problem called minority concern, I hope that all of us together, closely following everything that's going on and making sure that these standards that we've achieved, which are among the highest, I repeat in Europe, we keep, we develop them. Develop one tolerable, friendly, multicultural and multiethnic society, respecting one another and enjoying the diversity of one another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59430	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59431	I want to replicate to my colleague, namely, in that section, I agree with you colleagues that the Council of National Minorities is not an obligation but that units of local self-government can choose them. A council of local self-government units. But the problem is something else. In 2003 and 2004, elections for the Council of National Minorities were completely unprepared. No promotion was carried out, no funding was provided, no education was even carried out. What do the councils mean and who's proposing them? And surely the coming out and the elections were the way they were. But the fact is that today, too, there may be something more to be said about what it is, that is, to define the electoral threshold and to talk about changing the law. I have already suggested that it is not the same when 100 or 200 representatives from the middle of 3 thousand, i.e. from one local unit that numbers 3 thousand inhabitants propose such a council where all are known or 100 or 200 members of a minority, for example from Zagreb, which makes up 800 thousand inhabitants, where they are not known, where there is no organised form, try to choose such a council. Where it ends up being elected with 1 or 7 votes. Where it is normal when their legitimacy is also questionable and that apparently the councils of national minorities must experience certain changes in their work, as well as in their selection methods. And this particular report should also serve to pay attention to such illogicalities as are happening to us on the ground. If someone, or if a minority is not in one unit of local self-government, if she doesn't want to do what then there and call elections and choose such a council that she obviously won't have a function.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59432	Replica reply, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59433	I'm glad, dear fellow, that we've been giving each other a line of thought. So I'm glad that I encouraged you to express your support for me in this part of which I will re-absorphate, so to speak, the corresponding replica. So the abstinence in the election is a general phenomenon. It is, of course, also passed on to abstinences for elections for the council of minority local self-government. Minorities themselves should, in my opinion, animate their members as political parties do when they go to the elections. They do not expect the state to educate and animate members of a particular political party to go to the polls and vote for its political option. In this case, minorities should, therefore, encourage their members to go to elections in an organised manner and where they feel the need to choose their representatives, where they do not, no. But when that doesn't happen then, then, I'm in favour of making a nice analysis of the existing territorial structure why they've been chosen somewhere, why they're not so that it's not generalized and not said in the 61st report where we're guaranteed to have 30 so it turns out that the government either didn't allow it or did not disable it. It's precisely because that life, therefore, requires it. Either there are too few organised members of the minority or they have no interest in organising themselves separately or not enough from their own members to be educated. So the state also bridged that, to put it this way, so it further educated after she had called the regular elections, made the extras and spent a lot of money. Thank you for correcting me. It was 30 first, so for extra 15, a total of almost 50. So that's where we agree together that it's a lot of money we've spent. So maybe we should have, we didn't. I suppose that I, too, expect the legislator to have made the frameworks, and then those to whom it applies invest all their energy and ultimately have the means and advice for national minorities. I'll underline that, I think I should start playing another role, not just deploying funds, so thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59434	The second replica of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59435	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed colleague said well and correctly and I am proud that Croatia is the leader in the region under the legal regulation of the protection of national minorities and that is good. However, I will give you an example of what you have stated that in this case, in particular Italy is different and there are many, the laws are not so good in terms of national minorities. But I'll give you an example of what's going on in the field. In particular, the city of Manzano, which I collect with the city of Labin in elementary school, has a Croatian language. One of our professors from Rijeka, whose husband was employed in Manzan, left five, six years ago with him and with a lot of effort together with our consulate and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, managed to achieve this in agreement with local self-government, that the children of our emigrants had a Croatian language. And the more beautiful it is not only children of our emigrants, but Italian children who want to learn Croatian. So that's what you might want here in some things to point out, that at a local level maybe a little bit more effort is made to make this legislative regulation work as best as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59436	Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59437	The general rule that the exception confirms the rule is in this case proven. So, you're just saying that someone by their personal pawnage, by their own personal will, has managed to do something that should be a rule. So we also have a case that in Moliz we have a teacher of Croatian language where they are... Croatians organized in those 3 villages as an indigenous historical community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I repeat, the Croats aren't even that... The community recognises in the Constitution of Italy as a national minority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have been granted the right to serve with their own language and to issue certain cultural content, to practice sport and folklore, but they do not have that policy as the Italian minority in Croatia, I will now not deliver, and I do not repeat the possibility of getting more substantial resources to support this work because getting these funds has been prevented by enormous bureaucratic demands, a long-term procedure, ultimately not solving the problem, by not obtaining funds. So I know well that there is a community of Croats in Rome, Milan and Trieste. Of course, I consider Moliz special, it's additional and that there are our associations, that there is a community of associations. I also spoke to the mayor of Milan. There are separatist connections. Crosses are friends with Lombardia, with lots of cities from... But that doesn't solve the systemic problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the systematic problem could only be solved by the Italian state recognising the Croatian minority as a minority and recognising all political rights as it recognises both to its inhabitants and to the Italians here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59438	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59439	Thank you, Mr. President. I've heard enough about minorities. I'd like to say the same few words. As a living witness to the war in Vukovar, the aggression of the Serb minority against most Croatian and non-Serbian majority. Minority genocide above most. We were expelled from a town of 25,000 Croats was expelled from the City of Vukovar. Driven to minority camps, killed and killed over 2,000 people by a minority hand. A living witness and leader of a peaceful reintegration that we've conducted without any incident. And after so many years, here are reports of the current situation of the Vukovar minority and how the injured majority treats the Serb minority. The town of Vukovar is a multinational community in which the Serb national minority is the most numerous. Statistical data records as well as the '91 census. In the year Vukovar had more than 44,000 inhabitants of which more than 47% of Croats and about 32% of Serbs and other ethnicities. After the persecution of the non-Serb population in '91. In the year, 32% of Serbs, 58% of Croats and 10% of other ethnicities live in Vukovar today. The status issue of national minority rights is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and the Statute of the City of Vukovar for the city itself. Along with all legislative regulations, with all due diligence from local authorities, a highly untrue and devastating thesis on the threat of the Serb national minority continues. I remind you, 8 of the SDSS council members in the City Council of the City of Vukovar, among the Serb national minority employees in the local administration, are represented according to the population percentage. The executive body of local self-government is the city's headship. There are three members of the SDSS, and the second deputy mayor is Serbian nationality. The Serb minority has and radio station Dunav in Vukovar. In particular, he also said the benefit used by children of Serbian nationality from kindergartens to secondary schools. The entire educational process is fully conducted in Serbian and Cyrillic. Even classes are separated as children in kindergartens as special institutions for preschool education. So parents, because I don't think it's a child's wish, getoize their children from the earliest age using 100% legal opportunities for education and education, and certainly to the harm of their children. However, most of their children's colleges end in Serbia even though they used all the benefits of free elementary and secondary schooling in the Republic of Croatia. That more newborns of Serbian nationality are born in Vukovar is known and why. Because births with a personal ID card at a Vukovar address simply come to Vukovar because it provides them with maternity benefits, child benefits, assistance from the Centre for Social Care and the assistance of Osijek for Social Care in the headship of the city. That werewolves live in Serbia and for social assistance they come to Croatia and it's not a secret. The Republic of Croatia has enough money, probably one part, 1/3 of the Republic of Serbia is funding this way. I warned the relevant both in Vukovar and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this would end. There are institutions that are doing this, who would be on the spot to see it. However, no one looked back. Buying apartments like someone mentioned flats in Vukovar. The purchase of apartments goes to the Serb minority as well as to the Croatian majority, and very soon the apartments of these days have already started to rent, and then there is a ransom. The number of employees in the company's percentages and to the detriment of Croat returnees is not a very rare occurrence. For example, Croatia's post office in Vukovar, Borov settlement of 20 employees 18 is Serbian nationality, is two Croatian nationalities. Of the 4 writers, 1 is Croatia, and 4 are Serbian nationalities. Then Vupiko from 65% to 70% of Serbian nationality, so also in Chazmatrans. What to say about the Golgotha by the Croats in '91. years, and due to neighbourly or neighbourly recognition they often paid with their heads. In the camps, Serbs from Nis didn't complain or any place in Serbia knew us or our families, but that's why they were neighbours, and then we were in '97. years back in town as a minority. The local administration and the Office of State Administration and HDZ, which returned the same as the local administration. We had almost parallel power... who came with representatives of the Norwegian government once and told us that the Serbs were at risk, and then there were 10% of the Croats we returned, a handful of poor minorities because 10 of us and they told us that the Serbs were threatened by us when we started coming back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be best if you didn't come and normal and they told us so what do you think we're protecting, that we came here for the Croats? We are here to protect the Serb minority and good. Keeping empty apartments, while staying in Serbia in perspective should ensure the purchase of these apartments and their sale at market price and all these calculations at a time when much of the exiles did not return to Vukovar because of the housing issue. Of course, the fact that housing is provided by exiles or young people who have received a job in Croatia will never return to Vukovar, from it are expelled as children, and today many of them are mature, often highly educated people needed in the environments where they live from persecution, which is 15 years old. For this reason, the city of Vukovar has introduced new measures to encourage the arrival of young highly educated people of deficit professions as well as Vukovar as others. With the daily struggle to rebuild the city, life and economy, which is certainly a driver of complete reconstruction, so with efforts to achieve a man of dignity regardless of nationality, the difficult circumstance creates a thesis of the threat of the Serb national minority in Vukovar. As soon as the burden of the Croatian state is being restored and unbroken houses in certain villages with a Serbian life that were simply built from the country, new ones are collapsing and making new ones where no grenades have fallen, so the minority has received their own ministry so that they can repair houses that have collapsed on their own. It's not unknown, the people of Vukovar, it's a pure fraud. The house didn't die in the war, but it was made as if it were and here comes the restoration. Well, it's already a kind of privilege over the Croats, but also other national minorities, because there are opportunities to expand and rebuild the house, and all at the expense of the state that the truths have destroyed for the will, and these procedures show that they don't appreciate it but take advantage of it. Vukovar is often, in Vukovar there are four unrenewed schools and one student home, and it is now under way to rebuild the primary school in Borovo village in the place where the most severe attacks on Vukovar occurred, at that school in '91. the years of the atrocities in which women and children were killed, never returned. Those who have destroyed their jobs, killed, honored exceptions, their workmates, destroyed their hometown, left their jobs alone, we have witnessed these days the workers of the former... Borovo. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are people of Serbian nationalities who are looking for severances today, and during which they either sent grenades to Vukovar or robbed machines from that factory and transferred them to Serbia, where they opened private companies with our machines, and all this time they worked in Krajina, and in '91. For years, they went to Serbia on vacation, leaving us who until the aggression on Vukovar and Croatia at their jobs told them to come back in six days on a white horse and tanks. I think that among these horses and tanks we should look for their severances that they are now looking for, but they are actually invited to return to Croatia, they are offered materials for rebuilding houses, their houses have already been renovated and houses are nowhere to be found, where there have never been houses, we have witnessed ourselves in the town of Vukovar, there are invented houses and made up. Croatia is the only country in the world where home is restored to destroyers and aggressors on state spending. There are 15 thousand killed non-Serbs in the Homeland War, and the Serb national minority is at risk in addition to everything I have listed, and all of it is true, everything is verifiable, true democracy and the degree of democracy achieved is verifiable in Croatia, but also in Vukovar. And in the end Croatia is El Dorado for minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59440	Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59441	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. If it wasn't always El Dorado and how a good law in implementation can lead to absurdities I want to illustrate exactly on my minority. Namely, when a national minority asks its city to exercise minority rights, and not just any guaranteed by the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Use of Minority Language, and the mayor declares that this minority is therefore tightening relations and doing its damage, it is not possible to assess it differently but completely intolerant, alarming, which first leads to the dissipation of hatred and impatience as well as to disregarding minority rights. I want to point out right away, it is a minority that has been inhabiting the area for two centuries, it is a minority that has left a significant mark in the culture and economy of the region and which surely proved complete loyalty in the Homeland War and during the first days of the defense of the city was more than half of the Czechs in defence. Five years have passed by the adoption of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, three years since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. All warnings on the necessity of harmonising the city's statutes with the law end with worse and worse acts. The statute was changed in 2001, bilingualism that was abolished in '93. the year with the reason that this is not yet regulated by law does not return to the statutes, although the Czech minority has the right to be subject to bankruptcy rights in Article 2(2) of the said law. The Ministry of Justice and local self-government, in its opinion in 2002, warns the city of non-compliance, in 2003 the statute is changing again, but no bilingualism is restored again, and some new articles are then still with several laws, the Law on pre-school education, the Law on Associations, the Law on Institutions. The result is the creation of several minority problems and violations of the law. The problem of financing the Czech emissions on Daruvar's radio even though the show has been broadcast for 35 years and weighs the owner of Daruvar Radio are units of local self-government. The Czech kindergarten for 6 years does not want to be approved by a group of mangers, although the kindergarten has been converted. Funding for the work of associations is being reduced. When members of the minority council ask for a word on the city council, and the president approves it later, he is made public and invited to come and check the report. When council members representing the Czech quota in the Council attend a meeting of the Czech Minority Council which should be called on to be party responsibility and are valued at work. So much for Article 8. Constitutional law, which requires that the provisions of minority law must be interpreted and applied with the purpose of respecting national minorities and the majority people with the aim of developing a understanding of solidarity, tolerance... between them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It does not want to be understood by the Institute of Positive Discrimination, it does not want to accept the fact that the minority or wants to endanger the majority, that the two books published in the Czech do not endanger Croatian publishing with hundreds of books published, but that this is the only reading in the Czech language in the Republic of Croatia. He does not wish to face the assessment of the Council of Europe's report that Daruvar is violating the Charter of Regional Languages and thus also brings the Republic of Croatia into a position not to implement the Charter. In the autumn of 2005, the Czech National Minority Council again requested the harmonisation of the Statutes with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Official Use of Language. The result of this harmonisation is to give bilingualism to peripheral settlements around Daruvar where there is not a single official institution and therefore the possibility of applying the law by chasing the official use of language with the right to the private and public use of minority language which is free and is not subject to legal regulation. In view of a number of further provisions introduced in breach of the laws of the Czech Council, it asked the Central Office of the State Administration to act in accordance with Article 32. Constitutional law and suspend the application of acts contrary to the Constitution, the Constitutional Law and the Law on official use of language. What does the central government do at that time, especially the Central Office of the State Administration? I gotta say, don't do anything. No surveillance was performed when requested, i.e. the control of the compliance of the statutes with no minority law. At present, it does not act under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in Article 32, nor does it normally act when they are addressed and requested protection and treatment by other councils of national minorities. And I ask you, don't blame me if I have to conclude again that the government and the entire central authorities have only a declarative will to resolve some minority issues and unfortunately no implementation at local level. And I need something else to read yesterday, reading how many MPs are asking written representation questions and how satisfied they are with the answers I have to conclude that I also asked this question in the form of the parliamentary question exactly the right of the Czech minority in Daruvar to bilingualism and the government's reply signed by the prime minister was just last year that Daruvar had acquired the right to bilingualism. However, when implementation is to be carried out, there is no and the Government's answer to the parliamentary question again remains the same dead letter on paper. Therefore, I think that we must work far more to implement the laws themselves at local level, or that the Government must find the Institute of Control both the institutes themselves and their compliance with certain laws and their implementation, because otherwise we are talking about the great sensibility of the Government to minority issues about the desire to really carry out certain things and on the other hand we have violations and those minimum rights that existed and which today do not want to apply. A colleague spoke of the Serb minority. I know there are reasons why we're still angry and bitter about that minority, but I don't think some minorities deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59442	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jenna Adam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59443	Honored President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The satisfaction of citizens with government and even life in the country is the strongest support in building a picture of the country in the international public. Creating a good image by respecting human rights, full integration of minorities into political public and economic and cultural life guarantees the basis for their significant role as a factor in regional cooperation. Protecting the rights of national minorities contributes to the political and social stability of states as a strengthening of minority rights in building good neighbourly relations. I must express my satisfaction after the Government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and on the spending of funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities for 2003 and 2004. The Subcommittee on the Rights of National Minorities, whose chair I held at the meeting on 8 November 2005, discussed issues or topics from the work of this committee. The debate pointed out that it is not a formal enforcement of the legal obligation but a need to consider, on the basis of the credible facts that the Croatian Parliament will consider, in the above report, the implementation of the Constitutional Law to identify the causes of the problems that arise in the implementation of the law and to establish guidelines for more effective implementation of minority rights. I would like to stress that a significant success has been achieved in the protection of minority rights over the past few years, but that there are also problems that need to be addressed to ensure that minority rights are guaranteed in practice. Problems relating to the exercise of minority rights to representation in representative and executive bodies and bodies of units of local and regional regional self-government, representation in state administration bodies, judicial authorities, problems in the exercise of education rights in the language and letter of national minorities, open issues regarding the use of language and letters of national minorities, the issue of guaranteed access to the media at the state, regional and local level, problems with elections for representatives and members of the Council of National Minorities and working conditions of those minority bodies. The various international missions overseeing the achievement of minority rights and the effective protection of minorities and the enforcement of international commitments are also an important element of the current negotiating process with the European Union. From the findings and proposals of the Committee of Experts presented in the report on 7 September 2005 in Strasbourg, I would like to point out the following. As regards the Hungarian language, the Committee points out that, on certain issues, the situation of this language has deteriorated in relation to the situation until 1991, especially when it comes to the official use of Hungarian language in Bela Manastir, although it is one of the main administrative centres in the area in which the language records a significant and traditional presence. The use of minority languages in the field of education and education in the Committee's view is difficult because of the fact that it is mostly achieved outside the framework of regular teaching, which is why minority students and members are exposed to a significant additional burden. The report by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports on the allocation and spending of funds secured in the State budget for 2003 and 2004 for the education of national minorities is incomplete because there is no justification for the spending of funds or gives the criteria by which the funds are allocated. I therefore propose that, in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the criteria for the allocation of funds and methodologies for the monitoring of minority spending and that these documents, together with decisions on the allocation of funds and reports on the spending of funds, be made public so that the public concerned is fully informed of the spending of that part of the budget. When it comes to financial support for programmes and activities relating to the exercise of the law of established rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, I am pleased to conclude that the funds provided for by the Council for National Minorities have been increasing for years. The disadvantages observed in certain areas need to be corrected. Take concrete measures, define specific tasks in order to protect and promote human rights and the rights of national minorities established by the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59444	Thank you. Honorable representative Nikola Mak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59445	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues and... The government with which we minority representatives work very well, but that also does not mean that you are pre-amnesty from our criticisms and our suggestions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who are we talking about here today in this report? It is 7 and a half percent of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who declare themselves members of the national minority. I would add only that this is a much larger number because our statistics are still quite imperfect. We know that Roma doesn't have 10 grand but that there are about 40 grand, but because of certain problems and our statistical services, 9 thousand 800 are recorded and I don't know how many. The Germans and the Austrians also don't have 3300 of us, but there must be 50, 60 thousand of us and they're called the Schenbergers, the Poltzs, and so on. So they are undoubtedly of German origin, but people say that the Croats are and that is their sacred right, and therefore I am not questioning their normal statement but I am saying that this problem that we are discussing today in the context of this report is much larger, much wider than it is 7 and a half percent how much our statistics show. Well, I would now like to discuss the specific sighting of this report and the problems it presents. First, an unequal report. It is seen that it is made up of, from various resors, which is quite normal and that is proof of this government bench where the representatives of various resors are. However, one firm hand is missing, one editorial hand because I need MPs to get a uniform report, not how who sent the report to the person who summed it up and prepared it for us. So this is a very serious principled observation that future such reports must be in both content and volume uniform, which does not mean that any problem should be given equal space. Someone needs more, someone needs less, but they need to be even in one sense, and then the methodology of the data needs to be even. I know it's very difficult and this is the first report and I am grateful as a minority representative but in the future it must be more uniform. Second, funds. I'm not talking about what the report is about how much money someone got, how the funds are being shared, but I'd like to say just one principled remark. First of all, what is a colleague of Jena Adama and other speakers have put this in a less or more explicit way than usual way to bear responsibility for the funds spent and the control of the spending of those funds. Without that, I don't know an increase of 20% or an increase that doesn't solve the problem of national minorities if someone wastes their taxpayers' money uncontrollably and irresponsibly, and the person who gave them on behalf of the taxpayers is not in a position for subjective or objective reasons to control how these funds are being spent. These are the funds of the National Minorities Council, these are the funds of the Ministry of Education, these are the funds of the Ministry of Culture, these are the funds of local self-government. And now you have here with the means one, one interesting phenomenon. It's basically a budget rule that no one can get the money out of a budget in two or three places. Data review shows that this is happening, that someone gets funds for similar, I won't say the same, but for similar programmes both at the Ministry of Education and at the Ministry of Culture and at the Council for National Minorities, and I have data that for the same programs, not similar gets from local self-government funds either municipalities, city or county. This must be avoided because this leads to an unequal relationship between members of national minorities. Both between national minorities and between associations of national minorities. Second, the second question that is also mentioned here is associations. We have a real flood of associations. And I don't see any other way to solve this problem but to strictly apply the allocation of funds to the programmes, we will probably not be able to limit the democratic rule of what is now in force 3 citizens can form an association and then a normal association of national minorities. But we have, we have ways that if all those funds they give to national minorities are strictly for programmes, not for the president or for the very name of the association itself. And at this point, it's the only effective way to come, and we're fighting with the amendment of the Association Act that can't happen absurdly that a father is starting his father's fatherly association, a mother from the same family, from the same national minority mother and female association. The son founded me not knowing what kind of youth association, the daughter founded also a youth association, and in this way we have a single flood, and in fact it's about the same goals and the same purpose. But so I'm talking about how the funds should be based on the programs, and then at least we've solved this hand. The mandate of the Council and representatives of national minorities. I propose that the Parliament adopt such a decision legally not to go elections for councils and representatives when they are regularly out of office, but to wait 2 years and that when local self-government is elected we choose the councils, because they are part of local self-government. The proposal has already been made, and I am also joining the proposal. Council and Office for National Minorities. We finally got profiled what it is to the National Minorities Office and what it is to the Alliance for National Minorities. It was a great pain because it was primarily meant to explain to the members of the national minorities what the competence of one is, which is the competence of the other. Both with full and complete satisfaction, I can say that both the Office and the Council are fully available in terms of human resources, financial, etc., and they fill their role to a full extent and we have taught people what they will address, and what they will address to the Council and that they know who, what and what responsibility they are responsible for. Of course, I'm here first and foremost to talk about the Roma. And I want to tell you that the question of Roma is not a question of Roma, it is not a matter of advice for national minorities or the Office or the Committee on Roma. They are only the most responsible for the situation of the Roma in the Republic of Croatia. But the question of Roma is the question of Croatia's credibility not outwardly, and outwardly, but above all towards ourselves here in Croatia. And when we all realize that, when there is one full coordination between all the ministries, between all the bodies that exist then we will really be on the verge that in the next 5 to 10 years this issue in one extremely civilized, in an extremely humane way we will solve it to the end and that Roma will be integrated in all, in every respect, into Croatian society. Now they are outside of that Croatian integration. And about positive discrimination just to say something briefly. It's certainly not right for me as a member of the national minority to be deprived of my civil right to not be able to choose my own civil political option. Because if I go to the national minority poll box, which is donated by the majority people, I am also denied the right to choose my political civic option. Then I should be relieved of my tax obligations if I don't have civil political rights. A bit of a cartoon, but it's a picture of that relationship, and I mean, when the election law changes, we need to talk seriously about it. We national minority representatives have a very clear view of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59446	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59447	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Croatian government, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are just ahead of us with a thorough report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and I also stress the spending of the funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities for 2004 and 2003. It is just one continuity that the Croatian Government, as well as the previous one, continues a modern continuity in the protection of national minorities, shows that the responsibility of all of the municipalities, cities, counties and Croatian governments should be strengthened to protect those who are less than the majority in the Croatian state. Of course, compared to the former constitutional Law on Human Rights and Freedoms and the rights of ethnic and national communities or minorities in the Republic of Croatia since '91. Well, '92, '92. Also, then '05. and in 2000 this Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia from 2002 sets out what units of local and regional self-government should do. Regardless of this report, I think it is one of the greatest progress, because in this way national minorities who in municipalities, cities and counties should have a safe place in the statutes are told what rights they are and how they exercise the rights of members of national minorities, for example in the county. And by means of, of course, the Council of National Minorities and representatives of national minorities elected in all units of local and regional self-government. Which suggests that in those environments where these representatives live, that these very municipalities, cities and counties are obliged to protect them and achieve exactly those legal provisions that are prescribed by the statutes. For example, they have the right to participate in public life, to manage local affairs. But what is most visible to us at first is the right to freely use the signs and symbols of national minorities and to mark the holidays of national minorities. Seal and stamps. I am also saying what is important to emphasise that all of these statutes of local self-government and regional are discussing the provisions of constitutional law which prescribe the representation of members of national minorities in executive bodies and the administrative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. It is these modern gains that no developed country of the world can be raised, mainly the European Union country that we all understand and realize that this is exactly the way to strengthen responsibility by prescribing in all statutes must be evened in mind and without prejudice by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the amount determined from the budget of municipalities, cities and counties also says that it systematically cares about the development of such national minorities. So here you also base the figures relating to every segment of Croatian society, not only in terms of language and letter, but also in terms of the media, in terms of emissions, in terms of the amounts given to which minority is said to be just like these, we have provided analytical reports to enable each of us to contribute to the development of Croatia's society so that every Croatian citizen is equally equal to the law, but also in practice what is guaranteed the same right. Therefore, the right to manifest its faith and to establish religious communities together with other members and faiths regulated by the Treaties speaks of a high European gain applied in the Republic of Croatia, but it is said that all religions and religious communities are fully equalised. Therefore, the representation of minority members in state administration bodies is a normal and logical sequence in the application of constitutional law. It is therefore up to us to respect both our daily lives and our work in municipalities, cities and counties, and in particular in this honorable House we must respect exactly these most modern gains in order to provide a guaranteed guarantee for the free development of all in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59448	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59449	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague here said it comes from a liberal environment so it is natural to adopt standards that respect national minorities as well as human rights otherwise. I would say that we do not need a liberal this or that environment to look forward to the progress that is evident when it comes to respecting the human rights of all citizens regardless of ethnic origin in the country of Croatia. We also have to get up to protect all those who are being violated by rights regardless of party membership. I would therefore take advantage of the occasion and talk here about those who live in Croatia, who do not have resolved pensions, have not solved full employment, i.e. to a greater extent than others, as well as the housing problem have not been solved, and one outstanding example of the violation of their rights is the way they come and how they get health insurance. It is about Croats who were displaced during the war who were not loved by the will but by force, so exiled from Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is known that this group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia has not received any pensions since 31.12.2004, so people who need to receive pensions do not receive pensions because their home countries do not pay them and do not meet their obligations, and the Croatian part they paid for has stopped doing so. It is known that the group is to a greater extent unemployed than others. All those problems related to these people’s housing problems are also known. And when it comes to health insurance, I think this is really an example of how you shouldn't work, how you shouldn't do it. To have health insurance in Croatia from Bosnia and Herzegovina, then the condition for obtaining it must be checked out in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Imagine, so there were about 180 thousand Croats living in Republika Srpska, there are about 5,000 of them at this time. So much for respecting the human rights of the people, not the minority, but the peoples of the neighbouring country. And to get health insurance here, they have to check out in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think someone really needs to take care of this and prevent it because it's an extreme violation of human rights. We heard from an example of a colleague who spoke about our neighbouring Italy and the level of human rights there, or minority rights when it took the Croats 138 years to get the right of a national minority and in a small... and nowhere else. [[You don't understand.]] I told you about neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I don't think it's too much to mention that recently one nation has resorted to national interest, so... national interest to actually prevent the help of other people's victims. It therefore speaks of the level of human rights in our environment. However, this should not be addressed, however, Croatia should stick to its minorities, to its citizens and should level the criteria and do all the best it can to them all, but also to use this act as an argument not as a pressure but as an example for all its members, so that its minorities in other countries, but also for people in another country, all human and national rights are respected in the neighbouring country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59450	Thank you. An individual debate has been concluded. National Minority Representatives' Club, five minutes of debate, respected Zdenka Chuhnil's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59451	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Once again, I just want to encourage the importance of some of the details that my colleagues emphasized. First of all, it is about the importance of education carried out by the Office for National Minorities and the Council for National Minorities when it comes to the Council of National Minorities, but also about the education of local self-government units and their relationship, because the Council of National Minorities is nevertheless representative advisory bodies, primarily local self-government units. As the Council has mentioned very little here and that today we do not have a representative of the Council for National Minorities, at least the President, because yet the Council is the most body, I want to say something about this advice that remains unsaid here. In the Club of National Minorities, we estimate that the Council has indeed had a full engagement in the monitoring and education of minority councils, but that it has equally engaged so much in the information problem above all in the troubled part of electronic media and information in minority languages. It should also take note of the comments and recommendations made by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the application of the Charter of Regional Languages itself, and I must say that a total of 42 million kuna was allocated to information and publishing in the languages of minorities and cultural amateurism. However, when compared to 17 active or organised minorities and 375 associations, normally it can be for some a great deal, and for those who end up spending little, but it should be said that the transfer to financing had primarily associations that normally gathered most of the individual national minorities and those who really achieved significant results. Normally, the most time in the Council has just been spent on the schedule of funds provided in the state budget for these purposes and normal monitoring of transparent spending and annual reports on the implementation of these programmes, which unfortunately lacked workers for detailed analyses in the advice itself, and if we want to monitor more quality budget spending, I think we should take account of this, because I think the Council should be more concerned with the problem that was being discussed here. Normally, monitoring and implementing laws at lower levels, both monitoring and minority education and using minority language means, not just spending money. And in order for this report not only to remain a tax-listed list without a thorough implementation analysis, I think we should ask that the 2005 report give exactly some answers, i.e. to bind them to individual ministries, e.g. to come up with a strategy in the field of teacher education and to ensure appropriate doactics for minority language education. To take the necessary measures for the official use of minority languages. To truly comply with the statutes and comply with the law until the end, which includes the introduction of bilingual names of places in all relevant cases. To enable minority language speakers to be recognized, significant presence on public television and presence at local radio stations, which is responsible for both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and local self-government units. And what's already been said here. The elections for the councils of national minorities really try to hold elections for local self-government units, which would also mean saving funds and resolving the number of polling stations to a promotion that really wouldn't cost much. Therefore, we expect that the report, which is likely to arrive by June, because this is a commitment for 2005, will precisely be better quality and will contain, apart from what has been done and the analysis of the ineffective. Why something isn't done, how to do it, and who's obliged to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59452	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and on the spending of funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities for 2003 and 2004. I am voting first on the proposal for the next conclusion. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the expenditure on funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities for 2003 and 2004 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 79 for, 16 abstentions and 8 against, the proposed conclusion was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59455	Thank you, Mr. President. In view of this conclusion, the Government accepts the conclusion in part. Namely, the Government accepts part of the conclusion that the Government is in charge, and I will now repeat this part, that by 30 June 2006 at the latest, the Croatian Assembly report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of the funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities in 2005, with the obligation to declare in that report the observations and proposals made in the 2003 and 2004 parliamentary debate on the report. The government doesn't accept...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59456	Wait a minute. Now this part of the conclusion that is one whole, we will vote on it. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. We're voting on this part now, on this part of the conclusion. It's a separate conclusion to yourself. The result? 79 for, 16 abstentions and one against. This conclusion was adopted with this majority. Now we have a second conclusion, a second part or another conclusion, but it's completely separate, separate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59457	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This second part of the conclusion or second conclusion, precisely because it is not related to the implementation of the government's legal obligation to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, is not accepted by the Government. The Government therefore does not accept that a report on the implementation of the constitutional law and a report on the measures it is taking or will be taken by the Government on the issues listed in the report of the Committee of Experts and the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers of 7 September 2005. Of course, the government can and should provide that information, but not within this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59458	Thank you. Dear Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59459	Mr. President, this sharing of conclusions in two parts is something creative, but in fact it cancels the meaning of one conclusion so that we, as the chairman of the board who has made this whole conclusion, I'm surprised that we're voting on the first part and then on the second part and... the way this House adopts one part of our conclusion forgives, and then in the second part of course it refuses. Either it's a conclusion or it's not, which is why I'm drawing a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59460	This conclusion voted and there is no more withdrawal. In view of this second conclusion, it is quite clear and precise that this is a separate conclusion. Tell your colleague, Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59461	I would ask you, Mr. President, in which section of the Rules of Procedure is such a practice allowed?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59462	By the logic of things, by the basic logic of things. It is a proposal for one conclusion, which consists in a material sense of the wording of a number of conclusions. Elements, elements. We're voting on this second part of the conclusion. Wait, don't serve me... Did you draw the second part of the conclusion? ... The first can't, it's over, it's settled already. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59463	...the whole conclusion, since I can't do the whole thing, so then I'm just pulling the second part.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59464	The next item is - Proposal for a decision on the maintenance of military exercises of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of other countries during 2006. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59465	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. International military exercises, both bilateral and multilateral, are the highest quality and highest degree of international defence cooperation and mutual trust between the two armed forces in military co-operation. They directly support the interoperability and compatibility of our Armed Forces with the armed forces of the NATO and European Union member states. In particular, it should be stressed that international military exercises are also an integral part of training and training of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to participate in international military operations. They are the highlight of the training of individuals, commanders of headquarters and units, and show the degree of training, preparedness and interoperability and compatibility of tasks in the international environment according to the given scenarios. The Republic of Croatia has already gained considerable experience in organising and participating in international military exercises, and knowledge acquired contributes to strengthening the defence capabilities of the Armed Forces and harmonising their actions in accordance with NATO procedures. Participation in international military exercises is one way for the Republic of Croatia to be legitimate as a responsible member of the International Community who is ready to take over its part of the burden of global security, and acquired knowledge and experience are a prerequisite for active participation in the peace process in the wider international community. Participation in international military exercises is one of the most important partner objectives of the Republic of Croatia as part of the implementation of the NATO membership plan. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia gives a great accent on training and professional training programmes for active military personnel, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. However, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the best way to acquire new knowledge and new skills, to adopt standard operating procedures and adapt to NATO procedures is to maintain international military exercises and show that we have adopted a large part of it and to side by side with the modern world's armed forces as we ultimately want to become ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support in making this decision. This contributes to further raising the defence capacity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59466	Thank you. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59467	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held at the 62nd session held on 16 March 2006 discussed the proposal for a decision on the maintenance of military exercises by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of other auctions during 2006 provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Committee shall be informed of the reasons and objectives for which the proposed decision is to be taken by the representative of the applicant, stating that the adoption of the Decision is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and its inclusion in Euro-Atlantic organisations. Furthermore, it states that participation in military exercises is one of the partner objectives of the Republic of Croatia as part of the process of approaching NATO membership. The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and does not object to the proposal to adopt this Decision approving the maintenance of military exercises by members of the Armed Forces and the armed forces of other countries during 2006. Therefore, he unanimously decided to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament on the maintenance of military exercises by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of other countries during 2006, as proposed by the decision-makers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59468	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59469	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. What's there to say? You should actually repeat what might have already been said. Participation in bilateral, multilateral military exercises is of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia as regards its involvement in Euro-Atlantic integration and organisation. Knowledge and experience acquired is important for quality education and training of officers, officers and soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the task of establishing peace in the wider international community. The participation in these peace operations also contributes to the recognition and promotion of the Republic of Croatia in the wider international community. That's something that needs to be emphasized. What I want to point out is that it is important and concerns training units that are almost impossible to make more quality than through participation in such forms of demanding multinational exercises that are demanding, I would say in every respect, logistical terms of education, respect for language knowledge, diversity of procedures that are standardised and experience acquired by such exercises and are extremely important, training and qualified representatives of the armed forces and troops of the Republic of Croatia for successful and effective participation in peacekeeping missions and operations. Only a high-quality well-prepared and implemented education and training which, as I said, is almost impossible without such a form of cooperation that is well-planned, well-organised and ultimately carried out very well within the framework of most NATO exercises, a partnership for peace and has its own deep meaning because it qualifys candidate countries for training with regard to future NATO membership. Also special attention deserves to be trained so-called training. standard operating procedures and procedures that I would say extremely much and their training in the environment of multinational compositions, different languages, different cultures, different habits, extremely challenging, difficult and demanding and therefore these exercises have full meaning. Croatian headquarters officers should also stress their very successful participation not only in exercises but also in various peacekeeping missions, in various multinational headquarters teams where procedures and requirements for their tasks are significantly more difficult than all those procedures and requirements they meet during exercises in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, when we talk about these exercises, we need to say something concrete about what this decision really is and what it is about and what it is about. Exercises on the territory of the Republic of Croatia are specified in point 1 and a few words about them. First on the exercise mentioned here in the proposal for this decision concerns bilateral exercise, military service to members of the United States Armed Forces to be held at Zadar Airport. The implementation was planned in April 2006 and that is what I would say the borderline term from the moment the joint bilateral, multilateral military exercises in the Republic of Croatia started one of the most sensitive problems and issues was the problem of the terms and places where these exercises are being held. It was certainly unacceptable for these exercises to take place in tourist resorts, especially during the summer and we believe that this term is still acceptable. The aim of the exercise is to improve interoperability with pilots in the performance of flight tasks and to assess the capacity of their own forces, train pilots and fighter scouts of the ARZ and the PDO for the use of standard operating procedures in the control and protection of airspace and is extremely important as well as to improve interoperability with US pilots in the performance of flight tasks and to assess the capacity of their own forces. It should also be pointed out that within the framework of this exercise with HRZ and PDO representatives, appropriate units from NATO Air Force Base will participate 20 persons and F-16 aircraft. The second bilateral military exercise Gardex-06 will be held at the Eugen Quaternik Training Centre in Slunj, also a bilateral military exercise related to so-called. a cooperation programme with the state partner from the United States of Minnesota. Those who do not know, I will remind them briefly that 10 years ago we signed a partnership agreement with the state of Minnesota in which the Croatian was once governor, the respected Mr Prpic. This cooperation during this ten-year period was extremely important for the training of parts of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, but also in a political sense in order to develop mutual knowledge and a overall partnership that is not only related to military exercises but also spreads to both political and other economic spheres. The practice with Minnesota, which we discussed last year during the summer in the Croatian Parliament, will take place in the United States in July. Furthermore, one of the exercises that deserves the same I would say is related to the multilateral military exercise of Croatia xar-06 which will take place and will take place in cooperation with the armed forces of the Republic of Albania, Macedonia and Croatia in Osijek, or near Osijek at the Gasnica polygon. Implementation is planned for May, the target of training and adoption of standard NATO operating procedures in so-called combat search and rescue operations, meaning rescue and search operations in combat operations. Why is this exercise important anyway? It is important because the framework takes place within the so-called framework. US Adriatic charter, meaning three countries representing candidates for future NATO enlargement and all exercises in that format I would say deserve special attention. The exercises that will take place in 2006 outside the Republic of Croatia are also interesting and very different for their purposes and objectives, perhaps mentioning the international fire drill of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, the armed forces of the Republic of Hungary in the area of Lake Balaton, where the Republic of Croatia will participate in this exercise exercise of operational procedures carried out in international assistance in the event of major accidents and fires. The exercise will include 10 members of the Croatian Armed Forces, one Canadian plane and one MI8MTV helicopter. Certainly this exercise deserves attention as part of the preparation for what could possibly happen during the summer season in the Republic of Croatia. Exercises in the Federal Republic of Germany and Bosnia and Herzegovina are related to the training of liaison troops, the exercise with the armed forces of the Republic of Italy is also extremely important. It refers to improving the interoperability of the naval forces in crisis response operations, combat evacuation operations, marine interception operations, combating terrorism, humanitarian aid, disaster action and the enforcement of the embargo. Therefore, this form of exercise is very current, especially very significant during the tourist season because of the fact that through the Adriatic there are unfortunately huge amounts of illicit movement of people, goods, drugs, etc. Thus, an important preventive exercise. And joint exercises in Ukraine, Moldova, suggest that the exercises of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are in general very diverse, very demanding, not only in the Republic of Croatia. They also take place in neighbouring countries, the United States, Ukraine, etc. This is in some way an indicator of how NATO sees regional security, how NATO sees the need for co-operative security especially between countries in this area, giving priority to bilateral cooperation through these exercises under the US-Adriatic Charter format, which is the basis for future NATO enlargement. We hope that happens in 2008. As always and so far from everything said, the HDZ Club gives full support to these exercises by the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia both in the Republic of Croatia and abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59470	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59471	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the debate on this agenda point, I would like to highlight a few things on behalf of the Croatian Armed Forces' Club of Representatives in 2006 on behalf of the Croatian Armed Forces and Armed Forces. This type of military exercise is certainly good and necessary both for the Croatian army as a whole and for individual members of the Croatian military as a good military and professional experience. Such military exercises boost close not only military co-operation between countries especially countries in the region. Also, Southeast Europe is part of a wider Adriatic-Mediterranean defence circle that is an integral part of NATO's actions. Since joining NATO is one of the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia, all military exercises, regardless of what is being held on our territory or on the territory of another country, contributes to the achievement of this goal as well as the modernisation of the Croatian military and even greater professionalisation. By becoming an equal member of the International Community, Croatia has received rights and obligations, as well as participation in military exercises with members of the military forces of other countries that we can view and as a certain fulfillment of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. In such a way, our country ranks among responsible members of the International Community who are willing to take over its share of the burden of global security. At the same time, we support the insistence that military exercises are carried out in the territory of our country outside the main tourist season or that the shock months for tourism are not scheduled for July, August and September as months for military exercises. But once again, as during previous discussions on individual decisions and laws concerning military and security issues, we warn that we are obliged to protect our own resources but also to set certain rules, behaviours and conditions when military exercises are planned to take place on our country's territory. More importantly, we hope that while performing these military exercises on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the safety of the population living near the training range will be guaranteed and that all other standards will be respected in order not to endanger the natural resources that we have. More important than that, guaranteeing the safety of members of the Croatian armed forces while staying in military exercises is more important than any exercise or type of weapon being tried. When we cannot boast of modern and well maintained military equipment, let us at least be aware of the quality, high-school officer's staff of the Croatian Army and try to ensure the conditions for their further progress in future times. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party supports the proposal for a decision to maintain military exercises of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of other countries during 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59472	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59473	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The HSS Club will support this Decision on the maintenance of military exercises by members of the Croatian Armed Forces for the reason that the HSS Club has always considered that the best quality and best way to train and assess the situation as well as the implementation of all those reforms containing the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is to measure all levels of relations with the countries of the region and with other countries that belong to NATO as well as other countries. Of course, the specificity in which the Republic of Croatia is located and the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia tell us that it is also with this specificity that we look at the reasons and objectives of these exercises that are being maintained and not so long ago is in the debate in this House about whether it is good that all the levels of military exercises held in the Republic of Croatia should be supported or whether in some way selectively try to evaluate and try to reconcile the needs and conditions in which Croatian society, Croatian economy and how reforms are being carried out within the armed forces, whether these specificities should also be imposed in the way of maintaining military exercises, the time of maintenance of these military exercises, the character of these military exercises, and I think that, given the fact that NATO as a political and military organisation, in recent times, it has been more pronounced. Civilian objectives, that and in this sense, would suggest that the character of military exercises held in the Republic of Croatia should reflect certain interests that the Republic of Croatia is trying to achieve in some way at this time, and which relate particularly to the aspect of Croatia in those military exercises which in some way try to strengthen a certain role of the civil component such as fire drills, such as those of the exercises that will give one of Croatia's dominants at sea. So to strengthen one maritime component, maritime component and Croatian armed forces, as well as those interests that the Republic of Croatia citizens of course and the economy have in that area, as well as to try to define those segments in the armed forces that we want to further strengthen, or where we want to particularly motivate or specialize in, through these and these military exercises. That is why it is good to have one, one level of military exercise held at the premises of the Republic of Croatia. We clearly always need to make sure that they are not in conflict with the tourist season or with the behaviour of normal life, work and economic activities, at least when they concern and touch those held in the Republic of Croatia as much as possible with those exercises held outside the Republic of Croatia and in this proposal for measures and explanations of these decisions, there is such a positive feeling that these military exercises which have a multilateral character and which contain values in which they can be assessed that Croatian armed forces on these exercises will be able to achieve what is the goal of all military exercises, which is to compare certain criteria, certain positions that all those involved in these exercises have, but that a practical application of these military exercises can be further used in those situations in which and for which members and members of the armed forces are trained. Therefore, this multilaterality of military exercises that are being held is very important and I think that Croatia in a pool of possible activities in the coming years that will be held in 2007 should aimly try to clearly agree with partners, the partner countries should try to agree on those exercises that will have a completely multidisciplinary character. Which will try not only at a level to constantly have a certain conflict let's call it a local population that is naturally opposed to these military exercises or that is misperceptive, to establish one character of trust that should be precisely in areas that are harder to establish one system integration, such as uninhabited islands where there was, in history, not so far away, a cohesion, a good relationship that all structures of the military in relation to the civilian population have tried to find an interrelation with both military exercises and other organizations of that military part. I think it would be good to take these military exercises that are held in these areas, of course, these areas are risky because they are extremely high-quality and therefore this element should be taken into account, but behind them should remain an affirmative atmosphere and within the local population, which simply in simple language should have better infrastructure after each military exercise, better roads, better relations with those who have completed those military exercises. Simply every military exercise to local self-government and local community where it happens must leave one positive atmosphere. Then we'll have one thing in common and a total view both against NATO and against everything in one positive and well-articulated and well-designed strategy. Therefore, I think that the structure of military exercises is very important, that it should not be leaned solely on those pre-set military potentials that Croatia once had but that it should differ somewhat. In particular, I would stress the necessity that military exercise should be held in Croatia as soon as possible which character would have one, one character of civil protection of action in certain natural disasters, actions in those conditions for which we simply have no habit of practicing them recently. And I think that those in the aspect of NATO systems are very important and that they in their essential part are the basic content of every well-placed armed force anywhere in the world. In other words, I think it would be good for the military exercises that will take place on the premises of the Republic of Croatia as much as possible to make them acceptable for the resources where they are being held, for the local population and for the clearly armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to draw together with their partners and bilateral and multilateral benefits. This is the way in which, with this one observation, the planning of military exercises for 2007 may need to be partially and partially and partly and in part the structure and content of these military exercises to adapt both to the needs and interests of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59474	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59475	Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I notice for the first time there's not a single military exercise in the pulse area. As a rule, it's always been so far, and these military exercises have always been happening in the season, which is certainly not good. One word on the coast needs to be restored to tourism, it needs to be returned to the economy. These details don't take place in the season should be taken care of. There's no doubt. The Republic of Croatia must also participate in these types of military, under quotes, operations as it must participate in the operations of the United Nations that we talked about at this pay phone a few days ago. This decision concerns if I counted well 13 bilateral or multilateral military exercises. Some will be held in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, where forces, armed forces of the Republic of Croatia with foreign armed forces will perform military exercises on the territory of either our neighbouring countries or some third countries. So it's a bilateral military exercise to be held at the Zadar airport in April 2006. It's going to mean 85 participants, and it's going to take 10 days. There will also be forces of the United States. Then we have a bilateral military exercise again with the United States forces at the Eugen Quaternik exercise site. There will be 35 participants in the exercise. It'll take 18 days. Then we have a military exercise in Osijek in the Gachins. The aim of the exercise is to train, win NATO standards of operational procedures in some of these activities. There'll be 45 participants in the exercise, it'll take five days. And now don't let me count it any further. It is interesting, among other things, that our Armed Forces go to Hungary, Balaton, to go to the Republic of Germany, or Bosnia and Herzegovina. They go to Italy and it is some proof of good, correct relations regardless of these political markets between the Republic and Italy. The note only mentions that the trade in goods is over six billion dollars in both directions. And what almost surprised me was that this military exercise would take place in June means at 6 months and that combat evacuations, sea interception operations, counterterrorism, humanitarian aid, etc. will be simulated, etc. There will be 40 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia plus one lifeguard. It'll take five days. Here, we see that some countries that are touristic, under quotes "far away", do not say "attractive", but, more organised than the Republic of Croatia, hold a de facto military exercise season. So it's nothing unusual. When something like this happens to us. Then we go to Albania, we go to Ukraine, we go to Moldova, etc. Once again, it is understandable that the Republic of Croatia must participate in such military exercises, as it must participate in the actions of the United Nations, because we cannot forget the fact that the United Nations is also in the period of '91. '95. through UNPROFOR means the presence of these peacekeeping forces great pain given to the Republic of Croatia in defense of our own, our meaning sovereignty. All of this is to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59476	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first and only gentleman is Agent Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59477	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the time of relative peace of asymmetric threats and new forms of threat to the world's armies, and especially NATO member states are practicing on response scenarios to terrorist and other attacks by trying to predict possible future conflicts. However, almost no country is strong enough to resist such threats on its own and in all situations alone. As a result, countries are united both in economic and military alliances, each of which gives its part better and stronger than others, relying on others in other segments. The pooling of resources, the community of work, the sharing of opportunities and capacities is necessary for today's forms of maintaining security and stability, both in Europe and in the world. This is why joint exercises are a key element in which countries check each other's compatibility and it is necessary for the Croatian military to be present in such exercises with other countries of the region and the world, check and improve their ability to work together, tactical and technical flexibility and the possibility of full implementation of NATO standards in our ranks. So far, the Republic of Croatia has imposed on itself and has shown its exceptional ability and professionalism through military police units. After three years of involvement of military police officers, military criminals, staff officers, as well as official military-police dogs in Afghanistan for whose work they received countless commendations and became the basis for stability and security in Kabul. They are irreplaceable in the western structure of NATO, but also among the locals. As a result, no one really doubts that they are fully capable of all and the most demanding tasks of NATO to the mission. That is why it is good to know and it is no wonder that here are the only non-NATO members who entered NATO as an equal partner to a multinational military police battle, led by Poland to become operational in 1.1.2007. Learning on the example of the Military Police is evident that, with good leadership and command of our troops, they can be compatible, able to participate in all the most responsible missions in which they should contribute. The military police have succeeded in taking part in these missions in front of other troops of the armed forces, and even in the new structure, here I see on the international scene, so I think that even in the new structure we should keep it in the lead place, to continue to be a driving force and an example of how it should go towards international integration. In the end, I must say that it is constantly stressed that our greatest value is the Croatian soldier. But to promote these soldiers and the entire Croatian army, it is necessary to hear them more, to see them, to feel and recognize the imagination, the ability to adapt, the strength of the spirit and the bodies of our soldiers the officers and officers. Even with weaker technical equipment, our troops will fight for the deserved place in modern and modern armies of the world. Therefore, our troops and troops should be sent to international exercises and other joint activities both abroad and worldwide. ... abroad, yes, and let them show everything that the Croatian soldier was in the Homeland War. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What is today and that the strength of the Republic of Croatia will be able to rely on in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59478	Thank you very much. Does the minister want it to be final? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59479	Another decision to maintain the exercise of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of other countries during 2006. Also needed this required majority of 102 votes, please engage. Please vote. The result? With 103 votes for one abstention, the proposed decision was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59480	We move to the 8th point of the consolidated agenda - Proposal for a law on registered partnership – Proposers of the representatives Šima Lučin and Ivo Banac, first reading of P.Z. No. 358 You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Here you go. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59481	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The main objective of this bill is to ensure the rights of the so far-treated citizens of Croatia, regardless of their sexual orientation living in extramarital or same-sex communities, which are in a significantly worse position than those of the citizens living in marriage communities. The justification of this proposal is based on a well-known fact that the degree of democracy in a country is measured precisely by ensuring the rights of minorities whose rights do not threaten the rights of the majority. I would therefore point out at first that this bill does not in any way compromise, restrict or reduce the institution of marriage and the rights of all those citizens for whom traditional marriage is one of the greatest values. With this bill, we want to ensure legal protection for all those other citizens both heterosexual and homosexual orientations that cannot be identified with the values of traditional marriage, but they want to assume all the obligations and rights of life in the community with those they love. The current framework of the Family Law is absolutely insufficient in view of the exercise of the rights of extramarital and same-sex communities, so the proposal for a law on registered partnership is set up as a necessary compensation institute, a necessary compensation institute that allows the application of the legal effect of marriage in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, without being affected at the same time, I repeat not to enter the marriage institute as recognised by the Family Law. Although it may seem to anyone who has not been involved in legal analysis that only the existence of an out-of-marriage and same-sex community institute fully equalises the rights of citizens in these communities with the rights of marriage partners, the analysis of Croatian legislation points to devastating results. Thus, the extramarital partners achieve only 46% of the rights arising from the formal marriage community, and the same-sex partners achieve only 3% and only 2 out of the 62 rights arising from marriage, only the right to restraint and the right to common property. Other rights arising from the formal marriage community such as the right to succeed, the right to co-determination in the medical procedure, the right to non-compliance in criminal and criminal proceedings, health care rights and pension insurance are only partially accessible to extramarital, and completely unreachable to same-sex partners. Although formal Article 21. The law on the same-sex communities contains a ban on discrimination against the same-sex community, it does not appear to constitute a sufficiently legal basis for the application of other laws. For example, it was also the case with the Inheritance Act which, although passed after the Law on Same-Sex Communities, deprives it of same-sex partners who provide marriage and extramarital heterosexual partners. This shows the discriminatory practice of legislation, and only the declarative level of application of anti-discrimination provisions of the Law on the same-sex communities. Therefore, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this legislative initiative in which, as it claims, I quote: "Family law and the Law on Same-Sex Communities, and in accordance with civilization standards, fully regulated the right of man to marry, to live in a heterogeneous extramarital community or to live in a same-sex community" is the conclusion of the quote, in fact contrary to the practice where discrimination really happens every day. By ignoring the declarations, the Croatian legislation in reality covers only two already mentioned rights, leaving equal partners without the possibility of achieving the rights that belong to married partners. That is why it is necessary to introduce a compensation institute that will make the lack of a legislative framework and discriminatory practice of legislation a part of the past. If Croatia's legislation really developed in accordance with international civilization standards as this is nicely highlighted in the government's opinion, then the government would not reject the introduction of this compensation institute but would put Croatia side by side by side by side of a number of countries that protect the rights of same-sex couples in a larger or smaller range. I will mention just a few: Spain, Portugal, Great Britain, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Hungary, Luxembourg, so in our European neighbourhood and in some of the US, Canada, New Zealand and even the South African Republic at a wider scale. It is evident from this that such institutes are also accepted in those countries that have a strong Catholic tradition. The adoption of the Law on the Registered Partnership of the Republic of Croatia would place not only a declaration but also a fact in a group of countries with highly developed standards and a recognizable quality of human rights and freedoms. At the same time, such a law prevents the possible imposition of compensation measures by the European Court of Human Rights in the case of individual lawsuits for which legal precedents already exist. This was the case with other countries, for example when the European Court ruled in favour of Christine Goodwin in the case against the UK in July 2002. Moreover, this legislative initiative opens up an opportunity for the proactive action of Croatian legislation, not reactively after some negative assessment of the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights ruling, as has been the case so far. I ask the question why should Croatia not go alone through the adoption of higher legal gains, which have become applicable in the last decade in the area of the protection of the rights of same-sex communities at international level. Do we really always have to wait for a negative assessment and adapt our own legislation in an important procedure only after our obligations are imposed on us by external... in the first order of the European Court of Human Rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The self-initiative provision of the compensation institute would undoubtedly result in a strong impression in the process of joining the European Union, while at the same time not questioning the traditional evaluation of the institution of marriage. This would show that we are able to prevent discrimination in view of sexual orientation, and by ensuring additional rights to minority groups in society, to show that Croatia is able to achieve a higher degree of democracy. This is where I hand over my colleague Shimi Lucino's podium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59482	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59483	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I have to start off with a dilemma. This morning, if you'd asked me if this law would pass, this bill, I'd say it wouldn't be in the government's opinion. But since I attended here today a debate on a report that also speaks about minorities, only national minorities, where it was expressed such sensitivity that I am not so sure that even this law will not pass. Because the minority is a minority, every minority requires special treatment from most. So here, I really think that this one, there's some chance that this law would pass. But something right at the beginning, even though my colleague Banac said something about the government's opinion. The government's opinion actually refers to marriage. This Law does not speak of marriage, it speaks of registered partnership and what is very interesting, which is that it calls for certain charters, conventions, etc. However, there is no European Charter of Human Rights, there is not a series of Council of Europe directives and what is most important, there is not, for example, the European Parliament's last resolution on homophobia. This Law has been publicized for some 7, 8 months. He was addressed in a debate on September 30th. And I must express my satisfaction that he has come to this House, which is therefore already being debated on several occasions and on some committees and supported by the parent board. However, what has happened in the last five months regarding this problem when this Law and this Proposal are in the process. Like, it happened next. That the number of excesses, the incident towards homosexuals has grown. It happened that a few days ago, we all had a chance to see in the media and listen, read, how I don't know a group, a group, whatever you want, people go into a half-private party and beat up a group of people there. They only beat 'em because they're gay. Now, gentlemen and ladies, we have one chance to make a contribution to both our discussions and our discussions, so, in relation to this law, to the atmosphere and therefore to the overall relations in society, let's say that these phenomena don't appear or say they're minimal. Another thing that also happened, which is in the second month. The European Parliament, therefore, a month and a few days ago the European Parliament adopted a resolution on homophobia. What is this resolution talking about? In this resolution, it is said that in some Member States of the European Union, and even in some Member States, there is a expressed homophobicity for EU candidates. So the same European Parliament, therefore, gives suggestions to the European Commission, i.e. the European Union Commission, that it must take all measures to remove any discrimination and possible discriminatory provisions in both member and non-member countries. So, in fact, this law could have been free to have what else "E" and go by emergency procedure because it is, in fact, nothing but European law. Why did I actually mention these two cases? For the simple reason that this bill is not motivated by any of these two cases. But for a simple reason, the promoters appreciated that the quality of democracy is essentially determined by the level of human rights, especially fundamental human rights, the rights of minorities. That's what everyone or a large majority of you had a nice discussion about until about half an hour ago. I hope that such a discussion will continue because the quality of democracy today in the modern world is primarily measured by the level of human rights. If you go back a little bit in history, but we don't have to go into history, you'll actually see what's less human rights, so if you want gay rights, you have a situation that societies are actually less democratic, or that they're totalitarian. So you have examples throughout history, totalitarian societies have physically calculated themselves in the worst form possible with homosexuals, imprisoned them and punished them. And let's say, in democratic societies, they have all the rights. What I suggest and what would be good is that we actually talk about this law as a law that treats human rights. I know, and there's been a lot of that in the debates and on committees and out of this House, which is to express certain views. Attitudes like this, I don't know, that the influence of the Catholic Church in Croatia are so much and so much that it's impossible to pass. I don't know, the electoral body won't hear that. But colleagues and colleagues, let's make a list of topics and questions that, in every survey, you can prove that, the electoral body doesn't quite accept or look forward to, and this is where it was brought. Take a look at the topics that the Catholic Church in Croatia does not support or problems, which has also been adopted and adopted both in recent years and earlier in this Croatian Assembly. We can start on Sundays, so I don't know where it's gonna take us all together. It would be good, so why am I pointing this out? In this debate, we should not be inclined to manipulate the Church, which we have often witnessed in the political space of Croatia or not to manipulate voters. Because today none of you can guarantee what voters think. So, if we start with this Law, read this article in 36. you will actually be much clearer to this Law, that this Law has only one intensity, which is that one group of Croatian citizens who have, therefore, who are discriminated against to allow me to remove this discrimination. Now, look, we've already reached one level actually on this field, and that's the law on same-sex communities. What I think would be devastating, which is that in this debate we return below that level. I'll repeat what's important as well. Often around this Law and in a public debate, it was actually said that it was about marriage. I repeat it is not about marriage although it is already said here and whoever carefully reads the law will see that there is actually no word of marriage. Now it's just a question of whether we're ready in this case to show a certain proactive policy in the sense that we don't have to act like little kids in the classroom all the time and wait for her to erase or from some other European metropolis tells us what we have to do. This may be the best example to show ourselves what we have to do and not actually wait for us not to know in a year or two or three days it happens that this, that someone imposes such or similar laws on us. I would ask you to look at actually this European Parliament resolution on homophobia and read only a few items. I'll read you one. It requires Member States to adopt legislation suspending discrimination suffered by same-sex partners in the area of inheritance of property relations, leases, pension insurance, tax system, social security and others. So, all those topics that this law actually treats. It directs its President to direct this resolution to the Commission, the governments of the Member States and the countries in accession as well as to the candidates, and given that, not thinking that we are doing this for the sake of others, it would be good to adopt this Law because I am convinced that this Parliament is now in a position to show that it can in a certain way create a positive atmosphere in society. I see some colleagues and colleagues are laughing at this topic. You see, while some colleagues and colleagues are laughing at this topic, maybe in a bar next door, they're hitting someone just because they're gay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59484	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59485	Thank you very much. A great colleague of Luke's Catholic Church does not support the same-sex communities, is manipulated by the church, etc. That's incorrect. As soon as the church shows its reflection on same - sex communities, there are immediately NGOs who appear and respond in the form of various protests. Clearly, the church does not support this, but not because it is the desire of the church and church dignitaries to make life miserable, but because it teaches us the Catholic faith and the 10 commandments of God.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59486	And a respected representative, Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59487	Here I would correct the incorrect allegations of MP Lucin when he said that this proposed law does not speak of marriage, and I would only remind you of article 24 in your proposed Law which is just talking about registered partners about the birth and rearing of children. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59488	And respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59489	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations that it's time to get rid of it. There's Europe, that's it, but I don't think that's the time right now. It is time for us to solve the problems of Croatian defenders to the extent that they do not kill each other, and this category that you so strongly advocate will understand because you said yourself is about reasonable people and categories, etc. So, in other words, some homosexuals, or I apologize, Croatian gays can wait a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59490	Legislative Committees, Gender Equality, President-in-Office of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59491	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 33rd session of 15 February this year, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on registered partnership submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Šime Lučin and Prof. dr. Ivo Banac representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed the draft law in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee held the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the act in which the Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Proposal for a Law on the Registered Partnership. In the opening statement, the promoters pointed out that the same-sex partners living in the same-sex communities do not enjoy all the rights and benefits enjoyed by hetero-sex partners in marriage communities and therefore suffer discrimination. Discrimination is viewed in the opinion of the applicant throughout a series of legal regulations, i.e. social relations, and... in the areas of succession of health care, property relations, pension insurance, tax system, social security and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the time of the adoption of 2003, an important Law on Equal Communities must have been a step forward in the protection of human rights, i.e. protecting the rights of minorities with different sexual orientation, but in the opinion of the Proposer and most board members, that law is a declarative nature and does not solve the inequality of persons of different sexual orientations in practice. In the opinion of the Proposer of the Law on the Registered Partnership, the compensation law and the adoption of such a law do not in any way violate the Institute of Marriage or reduce the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as the fundamental value of society. This proposal would ensure high standards of protection for minority rights, while at the same time acting proactively on the path of European integration. Most Committee members support the adoption of this bill because, in their opinion, the proposed solutions ensure a high level of protection of human rights and promotes culture of tolerance and real, or full equality. The debate concluded that in order to protect the interests of the child to registered partners, it should not be allowed to deal with foster care. It is also not excluded for child rearing in such communities to affect children’s sexual orientation. In the debate, part of the board members expressed their agreement with the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The opinion is that this bill is merely a combination of the provisions of the Family Law and the Law on Same-Sex Communities. Since the Family Law regulates marriage, relations between parents and children, adoption, custody and the effects of the extramarital community of women and men and the Law on Equal Communities regulates the same sex community and the legal effects of the existence of the community as an explicitly prescribed prohibition of discrimination directly and indirectly on the basis of the same-sex community and homosexual orientations, these members of the Committee pointed out that the matter is institutionally regulated in accordance with international standards and that it should be advocated to implement existing rules as effectively as possible. The promotion of culture of tolerance and equality independent of sexual orientation prevails in Croatia's legal order as well as in most European Union countries that allow same-sex communities and not same-sex marriages. It has also been concluded that even the applicant is not aware of how many persons in the Republic of Croatia are in the same-sex orientation proposed by the adoption of the Law on the Registered Partnership. The discrimination of persons of the same-sex orientation referred to in the Law on Heritage, the Law on Health Protection and other regulations of the Committee considers that this inequality can be corrected by amendments to the rules governing these issues. When it comes to property rights, it is also the opinion of the members of the board that the same-sex partners can regulate their relations in a way that suits them as well as on the basis of a valid will to become heirs. After the debate, the members and members of the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions: "The Proposal for a Law on the Registered Partnership is accepted. All opinions, objections and proposals will be delivered to the applicant in the debate." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59492	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The SDP representative club is a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59493	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The right to freely show sexual orientation and gender identity is one of the fundamental human rights, and the fundamental principle which is currently in force in international law, which touches the rights of members of same-sex communities, is that there must be no discrimination based on sexual orientation and that the scope of law must be equal for both heterosexual and homosexual partners and partners alike. In January 2005, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on Homophobia in Europe. This resolution strongly condemned any discrimination based on sexual orientation by the European Parliament. Among other things, the resolution calls on Member States to ensure that gay persons are protected from hate and violence and to ensure that equal partners enjoy equal respect for dignity and protection, as well as to all other members and members of a society. The European Parliament requires, among other things, the resolution from Member States and the Commission to improve the fight against homophobia through education such as campaigns against homophobia in schools, universities, in the media as well as in the administrative, judicial and legal sense. This Resolution also requires the European Parliament to require Member States to adopt legislation suspending discrimination suffered by same-sex partners in the area of inheritance of property relations, pension insurance, tax system, social security and others. Finally, the European Parliament directs its President to refer this resolution to the Commission, the governments of the Member States and the countries and to the accession as well as to the candidates. In the middle of 2003, Croatia passed the Law on the same-sex communities, which the government also called for in its opinion that rejects the proposed law on registered partnership. However, the Law on Same-Sex Communities represented this and today it is only a clear first step towards recognising diversity. However, in nature, this law today has no practical and economic consequences, and it does not exist. Therefore, we at the SDP Club welcome the Proposal for a Law on the Registered Partnership, which was referred to in the procedure by our fellow representatives Šima Lučin and Ivo Banac, and we will support his reference to the second reading as a club. Whether we like it or not, Croatian society today has not been fully tolerated according to differences and this is particularly true for a group of persons whose rights should be regulated by this Bill on the Registered Partnership. Croatian society is still homophobic because unfortunately and too often we are witnessing hate speech, fostering discrimination, mocking verbally, psychologically and physically violently, violating the principles of equality and unjustly limiting the rights of this minority. And all of this, sometimes or most of it packaged in justifications based on public order, religious freedoms and the right to disapproval. By inaction, by impunity or by persuasion of various forms of violence, the hate speech of society actually tolerates and supports intolerance, intolerance and contributions and misunderstandings, and then different bullyes and hooligans experience themselves and generally remains unpunished or unpunished. The rooted prejudices, stereotypes, inequality, inequality, intolerance and misunderstanding are the most likely to surface just when it comes to people of homosexual orientation. The problem Croatia has and because of its non-compliance and non-compliance with its own laws is precisely most evident in the laws and legal provisions sanctioning discrimination. The law on gender equality is clear and prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation. Penal Code sanctioning hate speech, Labour Act that prohibits any discrimination is essentially not implemented or implemented to a sufficient extent. Or, perhaps even more precisely, that in Croatia there is still a lack of understanding of anti-discrimination laws as already mentioned by the Law on Same-Sex Communities and refusal to impose anti-discrimination provisions into other laws. Because how else do you explain that, for example, how did the Proposer put it in his argument that in the Law of Inheritance adopted after the Law on Equal Communities, the rights relating to the spouses and extramarital partners of heterosexual orientations cannot apply simultaneously to partners in the same-sex communities. Or when we discussed amendments to the Law, for example, on health care and when we pointed out that certain rights were not given without reason to members and same-sex communities and were given to members of the marriage and non-marriage unions of heterosexual partners with this particular speaker, the former health minister and vice president of the government said literally: "They have their own law. There's no way they can be mentioned anywhere in any other law.". Because of all that I have put forward on behalf of the SDP Club, I express my support for once again the proposal for a law on registered partnership, and we believe that there are no valid arguments that would prevent members of different sexual orientations in Croatia from exercising their rights from, for example, health care, patients' rights, pension rights, inheritance or if not fully as marriage partners do at least in the way that they do so in one part and partners living in an extramarital community of heterosexual orientation. The SDP club supports the proposed law on registered partnership and will vote in favour of its second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59494	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59495	The sentence: "Croatian society is homophobic" is quite incorrect because if there are any members or several very rare members of the Croatian society who are homophobic to no one, and even Mrs Sobol does not have the right to generalise the entire society so much as to declare it homophobic, so I ask that in no case be left uncorrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59496	Second correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59497	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's an incorrect assumption that society tolerates impatience and discrimination. If a colleague meant what happened a few days ago, that's what hooligans do in football stadiums, they work everywhere and everywhere. I think the police will do anything to stop it. And what society irritates is intrusiveness which seeks to equalise one community and clearly expected communities, or registered partnership. I don't think society will actually accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59498	The club of HDZ representatives, a respected representative, Marijan Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59499	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to say that I understand very well that there are no numbers of men and women who show deep, deep homosexual aspirations, and for most of them are both a test and a major problem because as minorities live in the majority of the world of heterosexuals. That is why we should accept them with respect, compassion, and consideration and avoid any form of discrimination or homophobia. Unfortunately, the proposings of the Law on the Registered Partnership itself recognise that the registered partnership is neither marriage nor family, and yet Article 24 and 36 in particular suggest that the same sex communities enjoy the same rights and benefits that the state provides for marriage communities and heterosexual extramarital communities. This proposal relativises the institution of marriage and family, and the family is under the special protection of the state as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has established that the right to marriage is governed by law. Article 5 Family law defines marriage as a legally arranged community of women and men. According to such a definition of marriage, the right to marry and to start a family is guaranteed as the right of man in several international documents, and that is Article 16. General Declarations of the United Nations on Human Rights, Article 23 International Civil and Political Rights Pact, Article 12. Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms as well as Article 16 Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in Article 61(2), provides that the extramarital community is also governed by law. The Family Law therefore determines that their provisions apply to the life union of an unmarried woman and an unmarried man. This is because society owes its survival to a married family. The inevitable consequence of the legal recognition of the same rights to communities of the same sex is the redefine of marriage, which thus becomes an institution that loses a significant foothold in its legal recognition, given the factors of the relationship, related to heterosexuality, such as the pro-creative and educational task. If, from a legal standpoint, a marriage between two people of different sexes were to be regarded as one of the possible marriages, the notion of marriage would have had a fundamental change with enormous damage to the common good. By putting a community of the same sex on a legal level similar to the one where the marriage and the family of the state would act voluntarily and would conflict with their own duties. Population and demographic policy, health care. In favour of the law of the same rights to communities of the same sex, the principle of respect and non-discrimination of any person cannot be called upon because this is not about the rights of persons but about the rights and benefits of significantly different human communities such as marriage and the extramarital heterosexual community on the one hand and the same-sex community on the other. Depriving the grace of a particular community is indeed unacceptable only if they oppose righteousness. Denying the social and legal status of marriage to forms of life that neither are nor can be married does not oppose justice. Neither can a prudent appeal be made to the principle of just personal independence. It is one thing for individual citizens to be free to carry out activities that they are interested in and that these activities generally enter into the general civil rights of freedom, and another for actions that do not represent a significant and positive contribution to the development of persons and societies to be granted special privileges from the state. Society communities can get special privileges from the state. Communitys of the same sex do not even play nearly the roles that marriage and family deserve in particular and legal recognition, since married couples are the guarantees of generations, so they are of exceptional public interest and are targeted by institutional recognition. In the community of the same sex, biological and anthropological elements of marriage and family are completely excluded. They are unable to adequately ensure the birth and extension of the human race. The potential lack of respect for human dignity because of disrespect for the child’s right to grow up in the family is a serious matter of resorting to means that have put recent discoveries in the field of artificial insemination. As experience shows, the absence of a bipolarity bond is a matter of obstacles to the normal development of children who are possibly involved in these communities. They lack the experience of motherhood or paternity. To involve children in communities of the same sex through adoption means actually to commit violence against these children in terms of exploiting their state of weakness to include them in an environment that does not suit their full mental development. Such a practice would certainly be in open conflict with the principle that it was also recognised by the United Nations International Convention on the Rights of the Child by which the highest interest in which the child's interests should be preserved is precisely the child's best and most vulnerable. A psychological analysis of the creation of homosexual attraction provides the greatest evidence that the nature of this condition is acquired, not innate. Most modern analysts agree that for the creation of homosexual attraction there must be a lack of sexual identity in boys or girls in the case of lesbianism. In a boy, a relationship with his father is essential. He longs to follow his father, to become a man like him. Because of the unconscious problems in my father's personality, lack of kindness, friendly treatment for my son, passivity, absence, life on the periphery of family life, narcissism. When a father serves his son to strengthen his self - respect, the father rejects the boy so that he does not enter the male world. Since he has no support from his father or connection with him, it is difficult for him to establish an equal relationship with male peers. He prefers to look out the other boys' window playing over playing with them. He doesn't really feel like a man. Lack of sexual identity. He's very idealizing the boys, but he doesn't have the courage to join the competitive male world. It's similar to what happens and because of the great possessiveness of the mother, the mother's son. When it enters puberty its idealization of boys can take an erotic dimension and hence the possibility of homosexual behavior. The psychological dynamics described in homosexual attraction are also true in the case of lesbianism. A girl has severe problems in her relationship with her mother and does not develop a sense of femininity, can fall in love with a person she finds extremely feminine or one who shows certain feelings that she lacked with her mother. If the lack of sexual identity as a cause of homosexuality can be acquired in the family because of the wrong actions of the father or mother, what fate would children who would grow up in same - sex communities expect? I therefore again appeal to the International Convention on the Rights of a Child by which a child should not be deprived of the right to grow up in a family. Following all this, I believe that the existing Law on Same-Sex Communities adopted in 2003 provides satisfactory security and protection against discrimination. As provided for in Article 19 of the same Act, a special contract may also regulate all property and ii relations between partners in the same-sex communities. Family law and the Law on Same-Sex Communities have fully regulated the right of man, or to marry, or to live in a heterosexual extramarital community or to live in a same-sex community. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59500	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59501	Says our esteemed colleague, and the doctor...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59502	Peace, peace, peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59503	...that this bill relativizes the family. You can see that's not true. Because family isn't just husband and wife. The family is two sisters who do not live in a homosexual community, but they live together in a series of different living circumstances. And it's family. Next, and you say, which is incorrect, and then you say that there's a father who rejected a child and, or his own son, that son cannot enter a man's world, according to you. We, what kind of man's world? There's a world where we stand for some equality. However, that is incorrect. Because as a doctor, you should know that the father and mother are the ones who are raising, not who started the child. And one more thing, you here express that you should give compassion to homosexuals. It seems that those who listen to you should give compassion to you and these statements And it's not an insult to your compassion... [[This is an insult.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59504	Okay. Who's in charge here? Three Sisters of the Czechs. And did you watch Three Sisters? ... She was prime minister the other day. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Antun Vujic, the next correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59505	Mr. President, I wouldn't have come forward if I hadn't been constipated by the pseudo-scienceal characterization that actually criminalises and artificial insemination and actually condemns and adopts. It's a series of such things that would be worthy of one Rosenberg and his racial theories. How to draw these conclusions...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59506	Correction, correction, Mr. Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59507	The correction of the entire exposure structure...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59508	Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59509	...which is, who is really muddying this Parliament. I'm surprised to be on behalf of the club...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59510	My colleague, please Vujic, don't be surprised. Please state what you think...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59511	Pseudoscience claims that criminalise...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59512	What's that?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59513	... which criminalises artificial insemination and condemns the adoption and claim that it is not an environment suitable for the development of a child. It's something terrible that was heard here, so it's something unique. And not conservativism like this, this is something simply amazing that can be heard in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59514	So be patient, too. The representative has the right to his position and opinion, you cannot judge your opinion and position as well. ... Don't, that's what you use for the 20th century, and Alferd Rozmberg is great. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's offensive. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's a little offensive together again. If you're pleading for tolerance, then let's be tolerant. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59515	The inaccuracy of fellow Mlinaric, who claimed that the Law on Same-Sex Communities fully consumes the right of members of different sexual orientations. It just doesn't stand because it's one of the anti-discrimination laws that this government absolutely doesn't recognise. If she were to admit it then she would have executed a series of laws, and a series of amendments to other laws, and you yourself spoke to the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59516	Dear Mr. Damir Caine, IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59517	Honorable President, esteemed gentlemen MPs. Here I will join Mr. Lucino, but only in the part where I wish to condemn the incursion of the hooligans at the "Streaks" party, which turned into a bloody evening here in Zagreb 4.3, and clearly there is no doubt there is any doubt that non-infringing but criminal charges should be filed against these hooligans, and it is clear that such behaviours will have to be sanctioned and it must be clear to everyone that it will not be tolerated. However, also this legislative proposal is something that I will call it, exceeds the usual mental set of most Croatian citizens. When I say that, then I think that there are simply some unquestionable values in this society, first of all I mean the adoption of children and marriage. You want a divorce, a divorce, a divorce, but you still want to get married by the same conditions as the rest is something that's hard to imagine. Third, as it's regulated in old Europe, I absolutely don't care. I respect their right to arrange it as they wish. Mr. Banac mentioned some countries where the marriage of men and men and women and women was allowed, he mentioned among other things one Spanish which is said to be more papal than the Pope, he mentioned England, the Netherlands, Finland, I don't know part of the states, the federal states of the United States, but that doesn't mean that it has to be at this time and in the Republic of Croatia. I am absolutely against such an opportunity, as well as against the adoption of children. I just don't think gentlemen can be natural. I know that my attitudes will come upon the condemnation of the steps, but it is my advice to them not to be too dangerous, and some of their actions at least irritate and turn the whole community against them and it is not good for them as it is not good for this community. It's clear and that's where we'll all agree, no one can beat anyone, clearly whoever tries it has to be sanctioned. Clearly, no one can stop anyone in their careers, no one can be held back on that basis. It is clear that no one, on any basis, should be irritable. But what they needed, and that's why I'm saying that the whole community at some point is turning against them when they're, for example. filed an indictment against Don Angelka Kachunka,...... Kachunko, I'm sorry. It's the Office of the Military Office. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's to quote from "Free Dalmatia" on Monday afternoon, he spent a little less than an hour on an informative conversation with the police, the reason is a criminal complaint filed against him by the legal team "Streaks" because of the alleged hate speech and insult of homosexuals in the text in "Arena" in which Don Kachunko was commented on by the wedding of Elton John, etc. The day after the author of the text, which says among other things, there are few who dare to say publicly that the achievement of the human rights of homosexuals is just a front for the systematic creation of a morally depraved society. Well, I don't agree with his position, but I agree that he can talk about it. I mean, it's something that this community has to allow everyone. And one of these charges that we've been dealing with, that's something we're not doing, that's just an exaggeration, and they have to understand that in "Step." We are all just people, priests are people and MPs, and we all make mistakes in one way or another, but we are suing someone for what is their position or the attitude of the church with which the note is identified in this case 90% of the Croatian public, and on the other hand we are selling demagogy from these same people about liberalism to some human rights, europeanism, etc. Something's at the end that doesn't hold water. It is clear that liberalism, human rights, Europe, freedoms, etc. They can't and they're not demagogy, but it's demagogy when individuals tell you all about it and then sue Don Angelka for his attitude. I claim that the Republic of Croatia has an appropriate law when it comes to same-sex communities. I am absolutely living the way they want it to be, to be an extramarital community, that they have all the rights that individuals of different sex who live in such or married communities, means that they inherit. In that case, when they inherit the deceased partner's tax exemption, let them even earn pensions, I don't have...... No matter what the attitude of the Croatian party of pensioners. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let them be referred to standards of restraint and what I know, but some distinction must be made between their community and the community of men and women or women and men. I am the first to represent that anyone or better to represent everyone's right to live the way he wants to live, to do whatever he wants to do clearly if it is according to some of the conditions of the law and some of the general moral principles. But I don't even think that these same-sex couples are the destroyers of this community's values, but this environment, which is probably more tolerated year after year, that's the debate we've been talking about before, is still not ready for the principles of this law proposed by Mr. Banac and Mr. Lucin. How is it going to be in 5 or 10 years I don't know, but for something like this today it's hard to gather a critical mass within this Parliament. I'm going to say one more time that "Step" isn't my half-limizing with them, it's gonna have to be a little less media-aggressive. They reported me to the Human Rights Committee because I told Mr. Merlic on the show where I was visiting with the Zadar Archbishop Dr. Prenjo, that the list that appeared here in Zagreb with a thousand 500 homosexuals is something that the state's attorney should treat in the part where there's a couple between a 25-year-old and a 13- or 14-year-old. It's for me in that part, so, just that relationship of that 25 or 26-year-old with that 13 or 14-year-old boy something... Boy, it was a boy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Something that's a felony. That's something my court should sanction. Because of that attitude, they reported me to the board. No, nothing to do with it. But there would be something better perhaps, Mr. Lucin, to do. Ask the father, the mother of that 13-year-old what they think of such a list, that they think, that family, that mother, that father of such freedoms. For the end, as I don't know, in England or Spain, I'm not too interested in it, maybe the next assembly of Parliament will decide differently. But at this point, I don't think this law will pass. I also claim that our legislation in this part is liberal enough, freely enough, that it's tolerance enough, I'm not going to talk about terms modern, etc. I agree that with regard to health care, inheritance, there is still something that needs to be changed and I hold that there is no homophobia in my attitudes. Absolutely nothing. It is good, on the other hand, that these topics can also be spoken for by this Assembly speaker. It is good that we can in this House and polymize about this kind of attitude. And it's good, too, I guess you don't agree on this law. It's kind of good about these topics, I don't know, sensitizing the public. I'm the last one the church could manipulate, but on this issue in most parts of their court. About the ban, say, work on Sundays. About bringing, I don't know, some say the secular character of the community also doesn't, etc. What's gonna happen in three years, I'll say I don't know. The public will be able to be different. Now, it's just a question of whether this law goes into second reading. If it were just a medical, or an inheritance, then probably no one would mind. This is how I doubt he'll get the support of this House's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59518	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59519	Your Honor, it's not true that the Step-Up Association can irritate the community just because it's seeking some of its rights. I suppose in this country every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, even if he and a homosexual have the right to claim their rights. And I think it's a very ugly message from the Croatian Parliament's pay phone that counterpart Cain sent to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59520	Second correction, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59521	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct two allegations. One is that the priest is saddened by his views. He's not sad about attitudes, he's sad about words, and behind those words go baseball bats, they show up live. And those baseball bats are caused by such words... You want it or not. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Does with their behaviour and fact, the second correction to the incorrect assumption, the fact that these people appear on the road irritate them, says counterpart Cain, 90% of the population. No, they irritate those who irritate everyone different. Different national, sexual, by color, by hair... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59522	Peace. Proposer Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59523	It is typical, Mr. President, for our populists, and Mr. Cain is leading our populist to have a bad opinion of the Croatian people and Croatian citizens. That's what he says. Proposers don't know the mental set of this people. We just heard it, and I'd like it to really be so, if homophobia wasn't something that dominates this society. I'd really like to believe that's the case. Then why does Mr. Cain claim that this society is actually still immature for measure, and it will be mature in 5, 10 years, that is, by the time Mr. Cain tells us so, no? Right then. Because he doesn't care what happens in all these countries that are completely irrelevant today because they exist on another continent or in another zone. It's completely irrelevant to him, and it's all about what's right with him. I think that's the kind of thinking we've seen, not just in this case, but in a whole series of other cases, it's totally unacceptable. And I would really like to concentrate on a proposal that has nothing to do with mental blocks but rights. The civil rights that are fully matured for this society and I don't think there can be any thorough differences between the various blocks in this House, if we are to be consistent in maintaining human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59524	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59525	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start my speech differently because when I look at all of you in the assembly one by one I'm compared to you different. I'm yellow. So I'm in the minority assembly right now. And in any case, I think that each of us at some point and in some situation is a minority. And just because this law solves some of the issues of some minorities, I am in any case in order to resolve these issues. Not exactly this way as it's written in the law because I made those remarks on the Committee on Gender Equality and I'm going to take them out again, but I'd like to say to my colleagues that I'm also a Catholic. Among other things, I know that there is a seventh commandment of God that says "Don't steal" and that in a society where 80% of Catholics should in any case bring the situation that there is no theft, that there is no conversion and privatisation that we have talked about all morning. Mr. Niko Rebici my tax card is in the commission, my tax card is flat zero, although 2 thousand 600 kunas should be paid back. All the things that the financial police punished me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59526	Please, don't make that form of communication happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59527	I paid for it, unlike some who'd never done it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59528	It's not desirable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59529	But to return to this topic, there is also this seventh command of God that says not to steal, and we can't talk about it here when we talk about God's commandments or when we talk about Bible reading selectively, because if we look at the Old Testament then in the Old Testament we'll find such things as are described by Lot and his daughters, and if I don't know any more, we'll find so many things that we'll be horrified about, and that's also described in the Bible and the seventh command says "Don't steal" too. But to get back to this, I'm not one of those who wants to apply something selective, so when it suits me like this, then I'm going to, and when it doesn't suit me, I won't. This is just one thing, which is the question of what part of us in HNS will not support, in any case Article 24, which is deviating from the generally accepted social behavior and I believe that this article 24 is defined as being born and raised by children is falling away from the currently generally accepted behaviour in Croatia. Whether this may become generally accepted in 100 years or not, I do not know, but at this point, we cannot accept that part of this article 4 in Article 24 as we cannot accept articles 37 and 38 that also differ from generally accepted social behavior, which is fostering. That part, in any case, we can't support it, and if that part gets kicked out of another reading, in any case, this other part, as far as some minorities' rights are concerned, we're in the HNS club ready to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59530	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59531	Thank you very much. I am very happy that I have learned now that my colleague Kapraljevic is also a Catholic which I did not doubt, but it is incorrect when he says that we cannot selectively apply something that the church has said by thinking here and on the ten commandments of God. Well, this particular debate of yours is incorrect in this regard because you are as well as it is usually that in our society you pulled out of context, ripped out a certain statement from context just as it did when you recently appeared, when children were told they were conceived by artificial insemination, and not a gift and it was enough to immediately start talking about the church in some strange way as you were now acting, and quite the opposite. When I spoke of this way as I spoke in that correction, I said, and I mean that the church is neither judgment nor judgment, but it's just the opposite that it wants to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59532	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59533	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Articles 209 to 214. I never said a word to the church, I was talking about the Bible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59534	PGS club, SBH, MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59535	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me say very briefly the opinion of the Club of Representatives of the Regional Parties on this subject and above all we would like to say that we at the club hold that the proposal of the Law on the Registered Partnership of Honored Members of Banca and Lucin is not enough for us to open topics of the type of Bible evaluation, church, rooted Catholicism in Croatian society, we would not open the topic of what is the right to abortion, which is not the right to abortion. We think that we should stay within the framework of something that can be considered a continuation of the 2003 law, we believe that Croatia opened the door to this topic and that it opened them, but that what was to be done on the subject of same-sex communities was not done until the end. For this reason, we think that this proposal is a follow-up to our fellow Lucin and Banca, and that we can freely say and maintain that it is a law that can be called anti-discrimination law and that is why we support it in principle. What 90% of Croatian citizens think about any topic, including this topic, are not familiar with the PULS or other agencies that are trying to explore what Croatian citizens think, which is scientific, and what pseudoscience about it is often slow and can't agree and for this reason we think that the whole debate is somewhat broad and that we are actually running away from the topic. How this topic corresponds, in fact, with the commitment of most Croatian citizens, it is quite clear. It is quite clear that the laws are not only passed and that it would be linked to what is conditional on someone's opinion at a certain point, and for this reason we think that the proposal for a Law on Registered Partnership should be missed in another reading for reasons to potential in Croatia's society positive and open democratic debates on this issue, which is in a certain way a hot issue, but also all other issues which, as a debate in Croatian society in the process of its democratisation and overall europeanisation, are waiting and all these discussions will very often not be easy, will not be a result of public consensus. For this reason, I am surprised that we too are surprised that in the debate this is constantly trying to talk about what is on this topic the consensus of the citizens of Croatia. So we don't have a consensus on constitutional issues any further, let alone a question like this. But the fact is that it is a good question whether we, as a European Parliament, support the European Charter of Homophobia, whether it is homophobia according to different hair colors as soon as possible, says, eye color, nation, religion or sexual orientation. Therefore, if we support the European Charter of Homophobia at the moment when we swear that we want to speed up the pace where some countries have been fenced in the debate today, now we suddenly care what is in Spain and the Netherlands. And when we talk about fiscal decentralisation tomorrow, then we're going to say that we want to decentralisation fiscally as it is in Spain and the Netherlands. I think there's a little bit of a mix of pears and apples. We would have said very simply. We think it would be a good idea for this law to pass the first reading for a reason for the debate to continue. We, as a small club, would personally suggest that the promoters consider Article 24(4) and Article 38 where fostering is mentioned. We think that by softening their attitude or withdrawing it, they would make their contribution to having a more peaceful, open, and for the sake of Croatian society we are discussing this law because it seems to us that something that is considered broader in the public is more controversial that these provisions are. But to refuse this and qualify as in some discussions it tries is not as good as it is not good through this topic to open the relationship of Croatian citizens to the Catholic Church. And we really think that it would be good to think about and miss this law in the second reading and to suggest to the promoters that they think about what we are and as observations, by supporting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59536	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59537	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct a colleague who said that Europe is looking at homophobia on this problem. The European Parliament does not prescribe or view this way and I will remind you that Article 22 The Charter of Human Rights prescribes that there is a cultural and religious diversity which the European Union will respect, which means that in a legal context, there is neither our obligation nor the obligation of the Republic of Croatia nor this Parliament to adopt the rights to promote or legally regulate the same-sex community in a way that regulates marriage in the Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59538	And a second correction by Honorable Representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59539	It is an incorrect quote from his colleagues when he said that I quote to open the relationship of Croatian citizens to the Catholic Church through this law. That's what no one said or tried, at least not me if you thought of me when you looked at it and said it. The difference between you and me is that as a Catholic Parliamentarian and a Christian, I have the right to express my opinion and I express it that way because I believe that I must say what I am saying against such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59540	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59541	Well, the Rules of Procedure got hurt that none of them were the correction of an incorrect assumption. These should be replicas, so I could answer my colleagues in a peaceful debate, but these are not correcters of incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59542	An individual debate on clubs has been completed. We're going to an individual debate. On behalf of the promoter, the previously respected representative of Shima Lucin will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59543	Thank you very much. I'd like to thank everyone who spoke for the clubs and maybe a few sentences. Talk about this law or this problem if you want and spread and make statements as we have now heard opportunities and before and talk about not being homophobic. And the first form of homophobia is the fear of talking on this subject. So if you want to talk about this and you can talk about this, it's already progress. However, what is the main cause of homophobia? First of all, ignorance and ignorance. I have to say that in discussions on committees I felt a little strange because I actually saw that many of the MPs did not read the law. So now and here someone's talking again, I think Cain is talking about getting married, talking about marriage, etc. But it's not in that law. In fact, they don't know anything about a category machine at all. One of our colleagues says like this: "E only took homosexuals. Where are your wives?" Now, look, it's actually unknowing what the word homosexual means because there are no women, no lesbians. And if I don't move on, some people here are pushing for tolerance at the same time, and I don't know how to teach lessons. To talk about whether we're as a people, as a country ready for this law, I think it's at least hypocritical. Let's talk about whether we're here in this assembly ready to talk about this law. And when I mentioned some things, I didn't mention either the church or the electoral body given the church and the electoral body, but I mentioned them because the same thing in these previous discussions that preceded this session was often, like, "I don't mind, but my electoral body and the church think it." Well, I respect that, okay. But then I think let's talk you're against it, because you have to mind if you disagree and don't accept. I think it's good for those who have spoken and suggested that this actually goes into another reading. I assure you that any debate on this subject will contribute to a lower level of homophobia. Because how come we don't have homophobia? If, for example, in countries where legislation is at a higher level on this subject than with us. The European Parliament finds it homophobic. And let's not do anything, I don't know how you plan on putting it off. What happens I don't know in five or ten years? Nothing important is going to happen in society on this plan, only maybe that's where some other people are going to sit. And I repeat what I said. We like to talk and talk nice about minorities when it comes to national minorities, when it comes to some other minorities, and when it comes to homosexuals, we don't recognize that they are minorities. Now the key question is, why don't we just admit it? Are they there? They did. Are they citizens of this country? They did. Is the Constitution true to them? Yeah. Are they subject to laws? Yeah. E, however, does not apply to them and to others all laws the same. Is it up to us to remove any discrimination, discrimination barriers, or encourage them? I think it's up to us to remove them. So as far as this is concerned, I think two clubs have said something about it. There is no reason for us to discuss some articles and certain provisions of this Law to agree to change them in any other form. But I would beg, I would pray that, that's what I said and so I ended up the first time I spoke that when we talked about this law, we would try to keep one thing in mind. That it's a minority. The minority that's been discriminated against. And that we have the constitutional right to remove that discrimination. I know someone's gonna make a commitment. I know someone's gonna say it's not like that. But if we go into analysis and we admit that homosexuals are not some foreign body on the tissue or in the tissue of Croatia, that homosexuals are not sick, that they have certain rights we all agree on, and they won't be given those rights. I really don't understand it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59544	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59545	Dear Mr. President, my colleague Lucin said that we who think differently about this topic are homophobic because of fear or ignorance. To discuss homophobically for fear or ignorance. That's absolutely incorrect. I have neither fear nor ignorance. I know very well what homosexuality is and I know very well what the causes of homosexuality are and I am, I was against it because two communities that are neither biological nor anthropological are the same don't mean the same thing they want to give the same markings and the same rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59546	Second correction by the respected representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59547	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct a colleague who insists we're homophobic and discuss a law we haven't read. We've read it very well, and I don't know where you get that courage to write that law under the Family Law. So you literally rewritten him. Let me tell you: Article 11 of your law is equal to Article 7 of the almost Family Law. "If the parent finds that it is not fulfilled which of the assumptions," in our family they say "for marriage" you cross it and you put "to enter into a registered partnership, they will verbally tell the bride and the wife", you cross it and say "he will ordinarily tell the partners". "It's not allowed to make a marriage," you cross it "but enter into a registered partnership". "And put together a note about that in the application of the intention of marriage," not but "to enter into a registered partnership." So you've completely rewritten the Family Law with the fact that you're still potential for the conclusion of underage children of 16 years of age which is really illegal and inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59548	We're going to a separate debate now. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59549	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is totally incomprehensible that this argument is, or the government's opinion, the government's opinion that it is actually denying support, consent to such a single proposal. And that says then here's only on the page and a half of the text where it says in conclusion: "The following government considers" and so on. However, what is stated in advance does not follow anything from this because no one here touches marriage, marriage has its definition. In fact, even here, the general declaration of the United Nations on human rights is wrongly interpreted" and this is its Article 23. So he says, and it's even quoted, "In support of the rejection of this proposal that can only be understood because it's very clear, unique that it's man's right to family." He didn't say a man and a woman in particular, only a man. We therefore see in this a false interpretation of the United Nations General Declaration of Human Rights. What seems very important to me is why should I accept a bill like this? Because it is absolutely on the trail of further development of the adopted Law on Same-Sex Communities. This law is a healing law for our society. Why? Because he's treating some kind of double standard that we have, that we have. This law is also a law against hypocrisis. This law is anti-discrimination law. This law does not give any rights but only confirms rights that did not alienate as all others belong to a man from his birth. Therefore, the state gives no right. This is how she refuses to deny it. But what resistance? Why the opposition? Apparently, it's a matter of public virtue, a vice of secrets. And everything is allowed if you don't know. But if there's anything to confess, if anything comes out, then there's a big problem. That is the only way to think or explain the inexplicable refusal of such a perfectly logical normal law. It is true, and therefore, that this valuable law is that someone who practices, who protects himself behind the façade of marriage, is not only civil but concluded in religious form and secretly has an extramarital partner and it's quite OK if you don't know it. But gay isn't OK if you know it. We don't want to admit it. That's our problem. We have some things to call the right name and expose them. But obviously there's no courage for it. There's still no courage to hear the truth, let alone live the truth. Not only through this law, but through a whole series of other laws. Not to mention some national action plans now. You see here today, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we heard something we really thought we'd never hear again. So that's what we heard on behalf of the HDZ Club mentions artificial insemination. I can understand that someone is saying who's a layman, who doesn't know which medicine is a foreign concept. However, medically assisted insemination called artificial insemination means not knowing things. There's nothing artificial about medically assisted insemination. It's all natural. But it's medically helpful. But apparently this government has no courage, even though it has promised in public on two occasions that the law will arrive. He's gone. Yeah, right, there's no Hebrang in the government and there's no law. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you see, here we have and rightly we have our colleague Vujic here, fragrant. We've heard here the quasi-science of some truth that there's a boy who didn't grow up near his own father who can't enter the man's world. And please, how will the child of the dead defender of a few months who stayed in the man's world? For example, what is it like to enter the male world of a child conceived in an extramarital community, by a father who lives already in a marriage community under the auspices of a sacred sacrament, but nothing is known? Will that boy enter the world of men? You obviously won't. But he'll learn for sure, because he better be away from that and that kind of father. Many fathers whose biology, whose biology here is glorified to unsuspecting levels. So that's how a man and a woman's biology should obviously become their destiny. You obviously deny then the adoption institute, because biology is important, because obviously the child can't be conceived but only by sexual act, because obviously they can't live two sisters or two brothers who fed their parents and because others have fled to the world, so they've left their family concerned. You see that community as same-sex because you deny it to the family community. And they're also families. So exactly what you're opposing here, a sex act, one or another, is exactly what you're looking at through sex. It is completely unfounded and wrong to believe that this bill is a redefination of both marriage and family. No one's talking about marriage here. And the family, you can't understand the rope than the existing legislation has already defined. That's what nobody gives you right, but in the absence of arguments, it's good for counterfeiting and the general declaration of the United Nations itself. And these laws we have so far. And then here you are disgusted that children who would grow up next to you, in that same-sex community, will find such habits that you express compassion for, and thus offend these people, do not need your compassion, because that is the same-sexness, or the same-sex orientation, for you obviously twisted, is, well, it's not innate, it's acquired. And in a very interesting way. However, even such a same - sexed one, in such communities in no way can children come near. But you see how far away you are from life and how far you don't know and don't correspond to reality. Today in divorced parents, in single parents, who defends that parent who is entrusted to raise, care and partial restraint, and most often in practice there is complete restraint, because that father went away long ago, which is why the boy will not be able to enter the male world, is he, who defends and does the court oversee it. He doesn't control, he can't control, he can't control, so he can start a same-sex community. And that would be an inappropriate environment in which that child grows. No court has yet taken away such a parent’s parentship, or care for that child. Just for these reasons, for constitutional reasons. Because the right of man is precisely right to non-discrimination towards sexual orientation. Therefore, such arguments are arguments against this law by distorting existing laws. It's something unnecessarily. But you see, when you want to make some arguments and falsify arguments to explain something, you see how you get into a logical trap. I support this law as a continuation of the already passed law on the same-sex communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59550	Thank you. In 18 and 33, it was time to apply for a ten-minute debate on this subject. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations, including replicas. First, respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59551	Thank you very much. I would correct a colleague who claims that this government does not know what family is and how it even misreads the Charter of the United Nations. I am not going to read you all the arguments this government has sent regarding this law, but I am asking myself a question. Don't you want to touch this law into something, a Croatian tradition, which is indeed a Croatian tradition and who knows what family is? And as for the mother and child you keep talking about, the child of one father, one mother, etc., or two dads or two moms. From one of our distinguished professors, I will tell you what she said, stressing the need for a child to have a complete family in which both mother and father are important, but also grandparents and grandparents. And when he sees the world, the child looks at him with his mother's eyes. If Mom's unhappy, the child will see the world with sad eyes. The emotional relationship between mother and child is the basis of all future children's emotions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59552	And distinguished representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59553	Your Honor, Mr. President. Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic said a whole series of incorrect allegations quoting me. First she said, first her statement was incorrect that this law would be for our society healing. I'll just tell you one study from Paul Cameron. He examined 600 necrologists for deceased men in the United States. The average time at the time of death was 39 years in homosexuals who died for some other reason, mostly severe liver dysfunction as a consequence of hepatitis. The average age of a man in the United States is about 75 years. A homosexual has 50% chance of dying of HIV or AIDS. So that's about the healing of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59554	Thank you. Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59555	Well, colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović said in her very inspired but totally unacceptable discussion that there are cheating partners in orderly civil and church marriages. I think it's completely incorrect. So who saw the partners being wrong. Here's what we're trying to do to this Europe, and in Europe it's modern. I don't know if it's modern with us, and I don't know if you have any of that information about us. But let's take Lady Di, for example, the deceased and her friend Charles. That was totally normal with them. I don't know if there's anything in our marriages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59556	Thank you. Ignorance is power, ignorance is power. And the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59557	Mr. President, my colleague said the position of the HDZ Club and our colleague is scientific. I would say free us, Lord Lightning, war, thunder, plague and evil years and this scientific attitude of interpretation of the relationship between the Father and the Son as you have offered here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59558	Replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59559	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. As my colleague Ingrid Anticevic exhibited, I took a political guide, and here I looked where she gave about herself...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59560	Nothing personal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59561	Just a little bit, please. This is public data, she declared herself a Roman Catholic...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59562	But what does that have to do with the replica now?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59563	It's all right. The attitude of me as a believer is to defend certain principles that I have acquired in the church, but also in my family, and I think that you have confused some things when it comes to the family itself where you mentioned that it may be between men and men, women and women, etc. and you didn't, you should have mentioned the Book of Genesis where it says "and God created male and female, grow up and multiply." And you must be like a parliamentary representative and a believer today aware that she is on the verge of extreme liberalism and family and church as the basis of every society. I therefore believe that in view of the attitudes we have, what we have declared to be so we must behave in the Parliament, not one to the electoral body, but another to speak here in the Assembly Hall, the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59564	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59565	Do not forge either the Bible or the Book of Genesis. It says "and create them on your picture, male and female, multiply"...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59566	To the picture and the opportunity!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59567	Yeah, that came later, probably not until you got there yet. You need to read a lot more, it's in your New Testament. It's about that. In addition, by providing my information, I have never spoken publicly about it because if we are talking about it, that should be for every believer, his faith is enough and he does not need laws. The laws of the right state for all citizens, and you believers or we believers have our own laws and we do not need the support of the state, the support of 10 commands or church orders, etc. It is sad if we need a state prosthetic in order to live our faith.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59568	Oh, yes, stretches! Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59569	Thank you very much. Just before in this assembly, we were talking about the rights of national minorities. Now we're talking about the rights of another minority, the minorities, given their sexual orientation. Interestingly, national minorities have often experienced persecution throughout history along with minority members created on the basis of sexual orientation. I'll say it simpler and shorter. Jews and homosexuals were destined for extermination in the third Reich. It is interesting that those political orientations that do not have genuine sympathy for national minorities. They feel the same antipathy for every other minority, and so does the one that comes from sexual orientation. That's what we see here in the Parliament today. Deep irritation to this, to everything else and different, especially if it's minority. It was terrible to listen to what Dr. Mlinaric said on behalf of HDZ. He is apprehensive that the child in any way resides in the homosexual community and says the nature of this condition is acquired and not innate. You, Mr. Mlinar, can say whatever you want, your thing, but they'll make fun of you because you're illogical. If that were true, then the homosexuals in the world wouldn't be at all. Look out, there's no homosexual who wasn't conceived, born and raised in a heterosexual community. He's gone. They were all born and raised in a heterosexual community, and yet they are homosexuals. If the nature of this knowledge was acquired and not innate, such communities would not exist. You speak so illogically. And the illogical court can't be true, it's still confirmed by Aristotle. You tell your colleague Milnaric I know very well what homosexuality is and I know her causes well. I don't know. I'm afraid science doesn't know either. But I'm willing to be tolerated for what I don't know enough. Homosexuality, predisposition to the same sex, representation in the total population of about 10%. A minority like any other minority. The first reaction to the minority in intolerant people is the shortfall of rights, isolation, exposition. But let's ask ourselves, who the hell is this law bothering? Who is this law threatening? No one at all. No one at all. Who's gonna lose something? HDZ says let's take care of the defenders and gays when it's their turn. So what does that have to do with anything? So which Croatian defender would be reduced to any of his rights if we passed this Law? This is about the minority and our relationship to one minority group. That's all I'm talking about. HDZ says we're not homophobic, but we're not for the rights of a homosexual minority group. You know, it's like someone's saying I'm not a racist but I'm against black rights. It's the same as when someone says I'm not a chauvinist but I'm against the rights of the Serbs. It's the same as when someone says I'm tolerated, but I'm happy that my wife is neither Serbian nor Jewish. This is about the minority and our relationship to her as a minority. About that and nothing else. Homosexuals as a minority cannot afford rights in a society because they are a minority. They must be guaranteed by most of them, as most in every society must ensure the right of minorities, but some societies are recognised as democratic and toleranceal, and some as exclusive and non-democratic. This also distinguishes worldly horizons, thus different both parties and individuals. We're taking the exam here today. A test of democracy. The SDP club knows how to pass it. The SDP club, however, knows that others will not pass it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59570	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59571	Dear fellow Stazic, you said homosexuality was not acquired because all homosexuals stem from heterosexual marriages. I don't blame you for not knowing what homosexuality is because you're not a doctor and you didn't do it. You read something from the law. I said it was a mistake to raise a father or a mother wrongly, because of the mistakes of a father or a mother so that homosexuality can be acquired. Father or mother...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59572	Well, it's not, so what is it, what is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59573	To develop on purpose, and I'll say that later in the debate. I didn't mean to tell you about the spic and his definition of homosexuality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59574	Peace. So you want to calm down?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59575	So I'm asking you not to even it out and not knowing that homosexuality is not being raised to pedestals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59576	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59577	Mr. President, fellow Stazic on at least two occasions was comparing and seeking to protect minorities mentioned and compared national minorities and homosexual minorities. It's a correction, it's incomparable, and I think it's a huge insult to national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59578	Third correction, respected representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. So learn tolerance. If someone has a different view, why do you immediately aggressively look at his point of view? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59579	Mr. President, as usual, my colleague Stazic calls for his own democracy, his tolerance, to all that he is not. And go once and say, what I'm not capable of, I can't impose on others. That'd be your first. Secondly, as far as minorities or gays' associations are concerned, like all people in this country...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59580	Well, the claim you're making is corrected...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59581	... so they bear responsibility for themselves, for their association and for their lives. In this House or, I must say, the Croatian people are not fascist, they are not chauvinistic, and God forbid, they are not what you call them every day every day from this stage. If the Croatian people were like you, then I am a member of that people. At least she'd be ashamed. She'd never leave this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59582	Please don't. It's very nice to hear how one particular conclusion is being performed, one deduction if I'm not a member of a certain worldview, then I'm a racist. If I'm not that, then I'm a fascist. Unless I accept certain values of the court and the worldview. You do it that way, the other side does it...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59583	And it's all contained in your person.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59584	And then don't say yes and ask him not to tolerate it. ... Dear Representative Marko Filipovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mirko Filipovic, he's gone, he's losing his word. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59585	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A man wonders when he listens to a part of these discussions is whether some try to be trendy or some want me to use this, to use the popular expression, to make this a brand or brand. Is this just a test balloon that even those who blew it know it's gonna blow before it hits the ground? Has such a balloon played its part here and now? Finding those who, as a colleague says, if they're not with us, they're against us. If I come in danger too, if I'm not in favor of a trend or I can't recognize a future recognizable brand to be declared a buttocks, homophobia, a conservative, a hearth, or if someone's or a legal team will take me into consideration as potentially dangerous and ask for protection from me or my words, or if they're going to put me under... and look for hair in the egg to point out that the discussion comes from an incompetent morally palpable representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Members of the same-sex communities advocate human rights, diversity and freedom of choice and freedom of speech. If they are democratic, and we think they are, then we should allow opinions to differ, not that those who don't think like them promote the climate of intolerance. Some also often mention aggression as a feature of members of same - sex communities. I don't think that's the right expression but intrusiveness, and one of the typical examples of intrusiveness is gay parades. Why are they parading, not heterosexuals? Is it because others consider sexual commitment to be their personal matter, not general? Do they influence other people by demanding that one who is not gay turn himself into one or one who has nothing against them? No, it shouldn't be. Why would someone fit rather than be intolerant to same - sex communities when it is against his personal, religious, national, and other principles or beliefs? And when I say this one more time, I say no to aggression on intrusiveness as it happened here in Zagreb. George... he wrote that democracy, and I quote, "The tools that ensure that we are managed as we deserve.", and a highly positioned politician now retired from the great world power recently wrote, I quote: "We all in the West have become too self-loving about our own certain types of democracy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's high time that we in the West took a break in our efforts to spread democracy around the world and concentrate on correcting our democracy. That must be the top priority.", finished quote. I think it's time for a break, a break and thinking. What do we do when faced with such legal proposals? To say that marriage is based on a family as a fundamental cell of human society and no ideologies, no one else can erase from the human spirit the security to which marriage exists only between two persons of different sex who tend to share their personality and keep in mind the moral requirement and avoid any form of discrimination of persons living in same-sex communities, and it is necessary to do everything so that the atmosphere of tolerance does not turn into an atmosphere of approval of the mentioned forms of common life in the sense that we should disclose every form of ideology and instrumentalisation of tolerance. Converse to human reason to promote the law, a law that represents someone's private well-being, which opposes the common good. Against the legal recognition of such communities, some of the biological and anthropological, there are some biological and anthropological reasons. In the wings of such communities, children can neither be born nor raised, and I do not think in a legal sense there is a need for additional legal recognition of same-sex communities, additionally because they do not, in my opinion, represent vital public interest. By living together, such persons lose nothing of the rights they have as citizens and as other citizens can protect them under general legislation. So, I support the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and say not discrimination, not tolerance and not this, not tolerance and not this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59586	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59587	I want to correct the incorrect assumption that a colleague has actually repeated on two or three occasions during his exposure when he said he opposed that homosexual persons are aggressively and aggressively gay parades and intrusiveness in fact fighting for their rights. It is incorrect that these groups fought aggressively for their rights. Well, not fellow Bucan, they searched through Zagreb for their rights, and aggressive were those who stood in the caves around them and tried in different ways to prevent that parade, so those who opposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59588	Please, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59589	Mr. President, Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. I literally told my colleagues not that aggression is the right expression but that it's about intrusiveness. So, I put aggression in the second row and I said intrusiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59590	The second correction, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59591	Thank you. It is incorrect that our colleague claimed that in such communities children cannot either be born or raised. They can be born, medically aided by this fertilization and can be raised. Another inaccuracies that such a law threatens the common good. This law does not threaten the general well. You know what puts the general good at risk? The laws to be passed, which we have brought to God in the mandate of this authority, which are now being created by a large social gap between one chosen and the other, between attempts to privatise, remember "Liburnia"... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59592	And the replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59593	You wonder if this legislative proposal wants to create a new trend or brand. Yeah. I personally want tolerance towards the minority to be a trend and brand in Croatia. You obviously don't want to. A society where the trend is to throw insults at the Parliament here or on the street, is still not a society or democracy or civilization. It's a firehouse and primitive society. This isn't about who thinks about homosexuality. This is about minority rights. Do not allow a person whose right does not endanger any of my rights or the right of a third party to be cruel, selfish, narrow, intolerant means being homophobic. And it doesn't matter whether this minority community was created based on its sexual orientation, skin color, national belongings, political belief, anything. A negative attitude towards her, short of her rights, means trampling democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59594	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59595	Dear fellow Stazic, probably as always, your hearing aid receives what you want to hear. If you'd followed my statements closely, they'd have spoken differently. And to call only because someone different from you thinks and dares to say it at that time when at least that's not public speaking, that's the problem of your tolerance, not my indemnity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59596	I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. It's the representative of Carmela Caparin. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. There is a debate on the proposal for a law on registered partnership. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59598	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! We are continuing the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Registered Partnership where I must at first declare that I find it totally unacceptable. In fact, when we talk about many laws, we usually ask for a simulation of whether or not it was implemented, and in this law I don't even know how many people are involved, which is the group, how many people this law is made for. It is already in Article 1 where it is said: "This law regulates the living community of two people who are not married or out of wedlock." What is considered an extramarital community here if we know that the heterogeneous community can also be extramarital and the same sex community can be extramarital, so even in that law you didn't predict whether they could go into this registered partnership by ourselves or not. But I would refer to the Constitution our Article 61(2), which prescribed that the family is under the special protection of the state in the Constitution. Article 2 of this Article provides that marriage and legal relations in marriage and in the extramarital community and family are governed by law. And also, let us refer to Article 38. A constitution that guarantees freedom of opinion and expression of thought and this requirement of the law I understand as freedom of expression of their thoughts. Family law regulates marriage, parents and children, adoption, custody, the effects of the extramarital community of women and men and the procedures of the competent authorities in relation to family relations and custody. Article 2 of this Act stipulates that the regulation of family relations is based on the principles of equality between women and men and mutual respect and assistance of all family members, the protection of the welfare of children's rights and the responsibilities of both parents to raise and raise a child and to provide adequate custody for the child without parental care and adult persons with social interference. By entering a registered partnership, this whole formulation of gentlemen relating to the degree and termination of the registered partnership has been taken entirely from the Family Law. The only thing to avoid is reconciliation because of frequent domestic violence. Registered partners are equalised in their rights and obligations with their spouses. It's inadmissible and further equalizations, and as long as it goes, if we simulate all that, then we'll see that this law is really prescribed Family Law. There's one thing here. If you simulate that, then two same-sex people, whether it's men or two women, will come in front of a matriarch who will register them, or in order to tell me to marry me, I can't explain it otherwise. Look here, too. They enter a registered partnership but cannot enter a registered partnership in religious form. I ask you if you asked the people whose faith they belong to. If we're Christians and it doesn't have to be Roman Catholic, did you even conduct a survey whether they're believers or not. So, I don't think it's fixed here. If they are believers, whether they have rights or as minorities, then in my view those rights are indeed denied. And look what it's all about. Those of the Family Law wipe out the bride and groom of course, it's being thrown out. That's where the partners come in, getting married is wiped out of the family but it's about getting into a registered partnership and so on. And I can tell you that these articles fit the Family Law article in a row. For example, Article 15 corresponds to Article 19, or Article 14 if you will. If on a day specified for marriage, it is not now through them to make marriage but to enter into a registered partnership, not to join a bride and groom but those who now intend to do so and do not justify it it will be considered that the application of the marriage’s intention is not to conclude but to enter into a registered partnership is withdrawn. So marriage is erased but then a registered partnership is put in place. So you can conclude for yourselves how the Proposer actually prescribed Family Law. And imagine something else that is disastrous to me that the court may, in an extraparate procedure, allow entry into a registered partnership of a person who turned 16. Gentlemen, a 16-year-old person is a child. I don't know if you had kids, if you had kids. But who can say that a 16-year-old person is so mature that she can even understand the meaning of a registered partnership. So, inadmissible to register a person at the age of 16. Well, it's out of my mind, I can't imagine it. In addition, the same-sex community is equated with a classical marriage and is placed in the protection of children, of course, within the framework of foster care. They'll foster that child. But I don't know, in this country, I guess we all know what a mother means, the feelings of a mother who is passed on to a child, and what it means to a father who certainly gives that child certain safety without talking about grandparents and grandmothers, which, of course, no one even mentions anymore because it's not even important to raise our children because everyone can raise children today, the family is put out of everything. I remember two years ago we talked about the same-sex community to sensitize the public about the public being tolerated because they have different sexual orientations. The same-sex community is considered by the Law on the same-sex community to be the living community of two persons of the same sex who are not married. By passing this law, they would eliminate the definition of marriage as a union between a man and a woman. For some in this House, such a provision would be said to be a revolutionary law. I remember two years ago where it was revolutionary for them that some countries had abolished the notion of marriage because it's no longer the concept that it's a community between a man and a woman. And most importantly, the European Union does not prescribe such a commitment. Gentlemen, this is not a condition for us to enter the European Union and enter the European Union as soon as possible, to improve our entry processes because Article 2. The Charter of Human Rights prescribes that there is a cultural and religious difference that the European Union will respect. This means that there is no obligation in the legal context of either this Parliament or anyone in this country to bring rights to promote or legally regulate the same-sex community in the way that marriage is regulated. Gentlemen, 85% of the population in this country has declared to be Catholics and has traditionally been turned around by families. Our legislation really needs to follow the culture and customs of our people, and I am asking myself, is there anything in this tradition in Croatia that breaks? I don't know, maybe I'm getting a little suspicious after all. The Croatian Democratic Community programme is based on the principles of Christian civilization and therefore cannot accept this law. The foundation of every society is family and our society is as strong as a family. The family is a community of husbands and women who will have children gentlemen to extend their lives, but also the lives of their people. And in that family are sisters, of course, what my colleague mentioned yesterday. A marriage of the same-sex community cannot be in that sense or the foundation of our family. Although in this article 24 of your law, a registered partnership is a family community. I'd like to tell you that the World Health Organization has identified mental health care and return to family values as a priority. I'm a man of tolerance in every way and every individual has the right to establish a same sex community and life in it is the right and choice of every individual. But I do oppose any institutionalization of this kind of relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59599	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59600	It is an incorrect claim from counterpart Caparin that there is a suspicion that this Law intends to break the tradition of Christian culture. First of all, the law of no country is based on any religious rules, laws, and so on. Second, we have examples of countries like Spain that are necessarily a Christian or Catholic country, and I don't think anyone thinks that they're breaking the tradition of Christian culture, and perhaps in the tradition of Christian culture, it's just respect for the rights of minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59601	Second correction by the respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59602	I'm correcting Mrs. Caparin's incorrect claim that the family is a community of men and women. It's not just a family community of men and women because Mrs. Caparin in the Family Law exists and the concept of a single-parent family, so it's a family as much as it may bother you. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59603	Replica's esteemed representative, Kyo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59604	Dear Mr. President, colleague Caparin. Well, you said you didn't even know the number of those proposed by this law. And that's right. They didn't mention it anywhere. According to some scientific studies, there are certain cultures, social classes, historical eras, somewhere around 2% say people have homosexual tendencies. Somewhere less. However, there is still a small number of those who are homosexualally active, and even fewer who wish to live in such communities, and the minimum number of those who have provided for in this Article is Article 24, paragraph 4. on the birth and raising of children in such communities. Moreover, the minimum number of those who have provided for in Article 18 is paragraph 2 concerning the age limit of 16 years. There and that's the answer to my numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59605	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59606	Thank you very much. I was expecting colleagues to pass a law like this, and if we keep discussing the laws, then we're looking for a certain simulation. I was very interested in how many people are we now doing such a law? Why are we doing such a law where a 16-year-old partnership is registered? As a doctor, I can't imagine and a 16-year-old child is registered, we're starting a marriage. That it goes to the mother's two 16-year-old girls go to the mother's house and register. So is it clear to anyone that it can be simulated like that? Suppose my 16-year-old kid comes in front of a mother? Is she aware of her sexuality and of what she is going into? That's what I'm very interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59607	The next replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59608	Comrade Caparin, that she simply cannot imagine that minors enter into a registered partnership. That he can't imagine two girls getting into a registered partnership. And that's how you think what you can't imagine can't happen. That it's impossible for that to happen because you can't imagine it. But you see as a doctor can you imagine a 16-year-old girl getting permission and medical confirmation and often a doctor getting married to a 50-year-old? Can you imagine that? And that happens under the existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59609	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59610	My colleagues can imagine it, but in any case, it needs to be prevented. I can imagine it, but it needs to be prevented. And you hereby advise it to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59611	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59612	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal relativises the institution of marriage and family, and the family is under the special protection of the state as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, such a bill raises the question of the Constitution itself. If all communities were to receive family rights, then the family would not be under special protection. And the family is the foundation of our society. Special protection of family and marriage does not mean that individuals outside these communities are discriminated against. They have all the rights as Croatian citizens. In particular, family protection, marriages signify stimulating, encouraging family and marriage. It is perfectly normal for the state to stimulate and encourage communities and groups that are important and useful for Croatian society which the family and marriage as the basis of the family certainly are. The family is certainly the best educational place, and the family depends most on the demographic situation. Relativeing the family also means relativating all of these, as well as many other values that come from the family. The vote on this bill will show the Croatian public in particular what values are being promoted by which politicians or parties? Recent research has shown that the vast majority of Croatian citizens in life are the most important family. More important than money, work and any other thing. Croatia is a traditional Central European Mediterranean country according to all relevant research according to its system of values and should be respected. Italy, Poland, Austria and Slovakia are much closer to Croatia by value system than Sweden, Norway or the Netherlands, which is unfortunately often taken as models of legal solutions. Each country regulates relationships in society, therefore, in its society, not in some imaginary society. Therefore, the adoption of this law would not only represent valuable violence against Croatian mentality but would be contrary to democratic standards. This issue is affecting an ethical problem that has not been discussed at all. And he deserves a wider public argument. It's not just a political issue, and it's not even a major political issue. That's why we're going wrong here. Politics should come at the end of a wider social debate and regulate relations in society. The approximation of the European Union is not subject to the adoption of family legislation. Each country is just jealous of its tradition because it is an identity mark. The application of family legislation cannot come from a democratic political system. This requires a second political system. And Europe has not yet defined itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59613	Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59614	My colleague Mlinarić mentioned Croatian mentality. That's the syntagmu he used. And you said in some ways that the proposal of this law means violence against Croatian mentality. Another story is that we are now developing a discussion here so that we can try to agree, although we are not scientists, but politicians, what is Croatian mentality at all, what is a psychic or psychological constitution of a nation, so that we can maintain a symposium and get some scientific facts. As politicians, we can really say what we want. I think that in Croatian, if we talk about Croatian tradition, we will also find tolerance as a feature of Croatian tradition, tolerance towards minority beliefs. Earlier, a colleague named Bucan said that about 2% of the population of homosexual orientation is active, etc. I mean, he probably found that data. I only wonder where 2% of citizens can threaten the rights of 98% of citizens. But I assure you that 98% of citizens can certainly, if it is intolerant to compromise any minority rights, even the rights to sexual orientation. Therefore, indeed when we talk about Croatian mentality, I would not reduce it. In my opinion, you've somehow reduced what I know by a reductionist approach. Let's say I believe that you and I belong to some Croatian mentality, and in a broader sense, and I don't agree with you anyways what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59615	Replicate response, respected representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59616	Well, I don't think my colleague followed my exposure well when I said the family was the foundation of society and the jewel of society. I think we should talk about it. And to say that I'm socialist, I mean from, from whoever said it to see everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59617	Dear representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59618	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. What does it bring us in this context, and how much do we need the proposal of the Law on Registered Partnership proposed by Mr. Shime Lucin and Professor Dr. Ivo Banac? When the content of the proposed provisions is analysed, the topics and the institutes and the content that wants to be regulated are immediately detected by the fact that all of this is very familiar to us. It's just something different. This is due to the fact that the existing legislation is, therefore, the Family Law, then the Law on Equal Communities, as well as the provisions of various other laws that regulate, or can regulate, all aspects of the two people's lives are detailedly being discussed and covers everything that the Proposer of the Law on the Registered Partnership wishes to cover by his legal proposal. In this regard, I also particularly think about the Law on Inheritance, and then the Law on Mandatory Relations, which contains articles and institutes that allow the establishment and regulation of all current and future property relations of persons living in different life communities. All those laws that regulate this topic are based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is important to point out that it is clearer to the public that in the Family Law marriage is defined as a legally arranged community of women and men. According to such a definition of marriage, the right to marry and to start a family is guaranteed as human rights and in several international documents. The two nonmarriage sexes of life were established by the Law on Same-Sex Communities. So, the Family Law and the Law on Same-Sex Communities are fully governed by the right of man to marry, to live in a heterogeneous extramarital community, or to live in a same-sex community. To favour the law of only some individuals as proposed by the proposings or groups for their ideological, intimate, personal or various reasons can be caused to ask questions of balance, rights and interest in a social community and to question the legitimacy of a particular legal dominant minority above the majority. The proposed law with its solutions, some of which are literally taken over by the above-quoted laws, and adapted to the proposal's intentions, I would call it fashionable, trendy, and perhaps even targeted project aimed at the part of the electoral body. I certainly cannot call it the law for which there is a need or a reflection of the dominant concepts in Croatian society about whether or not to regulate the subject matter of this bill. However, we are dominated by the view that social survival and development is based on a fundamental social community, which is the family as it is of course defined in the Family Law and that only such a community can ensure the conditions for healthy reproduction and education of individuals and society, and the necessary degree of natural growth of the population. I therefore find it particularly unacceptable to read Article 24 of the proposed law on the right of registered partners to give birth and raise children. To involve children in homosexual communities means to actually inflict violence on children in terms of taking advantage of their status of subordination to introduce them into environments that do not promote complete development, human development. And finally to conclude with the message of the Catholic Church. It is generally well-informed that the laws recognise, support and protect the marriage union of men and women as the basis of the family, as the primary station of society. Equipped legal homosexual communities with marriages would mean not only approving frightening behavior by risking it to be modelled in modern society but also darkening the fundamental values that belong to man’s common heritage. I can't accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59619	Replica, the esteemed representative of Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59620	Thank you, Mr. President. Oh, here's my colleague Solic mentioned that this law favors the same-sexness, that it favors, and I really did when they asked a physicist what he thinks about the appearance of heterosexuality, he's a physicist and... And he explained it very simply what it would mean if someone got involved in these rules of nature. [[You don't understand.]] So he said the whole universe was heterosexual from the smallest particle of matter to the star system, from fly to elephant. They're all heterosexual, and now we want to make a man gay. All matter is said to be composed of positive and negative particles, and in each atom around the positive core, negative electrons are turned around, equal fuels are always rejected, and different ones are attracted. And as the respected astronomer says, if the equals began to attract all matter would collapse and de facto disappear. And he explained it in the realm of the universe, principles, where the principles of centripetal and centrifugal forces apply, because he says that there are no forces that reject each other, then the moon would not turn around the earth, but would fall to the ground or somewhere far away, then the earth would not turn around the sun, but would fall into the sun and burn, or wander away somewhere far away and freeze. And de facto says that in this and that nature where heterosexuality is from fly to elephant, where heterosexuality is respected not only in the animal but also in the plant world and that homophylia appears to attract the same, and that the opposite world would cease to exist. Of course you...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59621	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59622	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Chikesh fully agrees with you, but I would like to further replicate and answer that the laws that allow homosexual marriages are contrary not only to morality but also to the role of heterosexual couples who have a clear task in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59623	Proposer of law, respected representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59624	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I was hoping that my colleague Lucin was hoping that this debate would still be more dignified. I was hoping that we were on the way to a truce, even the end of our cultural wars, and that's why the current Prime Minister is so important to me, because he was able to break up with some atavisms and risk it. It shows political courage, it's very important to me. We must have political courage, although our society values physical courage much more than political courage. But, okay. If any of us already have to vote against this bill, please do it without giving us passion and don't say that there's something here that isn't. For example, when it comes to the so-called By adopting it, it is explicitly excluded from this law. There's no such thing. Although in some laws that are in force in one part of European countries, such a right exists. Of course, we do not rule out the possibility of partners having their own children from previous diverse communities and the possibility of partners being guardians or foster parents. As regards the famous Article 18, it literally reads in its second part, as follows: "Extremely from the provision of paragraph 1 of this article, the court may, in an extraparate procedure, allow the entry into a registered partnership of a person who has turned 16 years of age if she finds herself mentally and physically mature for such a partnership and that there is a valid reason." There's a whole series of obstacles. So don't say that there's something there that doesn't exist. Let us not engage in pseudobial exegesis, not to call upon nature, not to call upon the creator because God who sees secrets knows what is in our hearts and knows all the natural laws and let us not play hide and seek. There's an example here. One political party that has given signs of support to this law, but has not participated in the debate, has not, has not even sent its secretary of state to represent hope in this debate. Let's not play hide-and-seek, because one day some variant of this law will be accepted in this House. Maybe for Caine's five years, maybe not Caine's ten years, consider that. And please, please, don't spread your impatience towards people who haven't chosen their preferences. They're our citizens, they're our brothers, they're our sisters, and I'm asking you nicely to consider that it's only a minority, although it's an unpopular minority, but the minority is nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59625	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59626	... My colleague Banac, it is not true that all those who objected to the Proposal for this Law insulted anyone, including your guests and our guests sitting at the Croatian Parliament gallery. [[Specially enabled.]] It is not true that all those who have opposed, who oppose this Law to express their hatred, their impatience, their humiliation, their dignity. No one's ideology nor yours, no ideology can wipe out the safety of human beings by which marriage exists only among two different sexes who, by their own, exclusive, mutual, personal donations, are more difficult to bring together. In this way, they perfect each other to cooperate with God in giving birth and rearing new lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59627	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59628	First of all, man paints God, he's made like a man and a woman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59629	Thank you very much. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59630	Dear Professor Banac, it is not true that anyone here spreads impatience. We are trying here from our point of view to expose every form of ideologies and instrumentalization, tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59631	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59632	Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing that's incorrect is what my colleague Bucan said when he said Mr. Banac that someone here is spreading impatience towards a minority that's different from us. That's incorrect. And just a different opinion and thinking about something different from you as a proposing cannot, when it comes to you, impose as freedom and democracy, and tell those of us who have a different opinion that we are spreading impatience.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59633	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59634	I thank Mr. President, and very briefly I will remain exclusively on the legal provisions without, of course, entering some of my views or other attitudes that everyone has the right to do. But I'm undermining what's said about nature, and we can't get around it, and of course, God. They're axioms that no one here can escape from, so ultimately it always wins at the end. But I would just like to talk, therefore, about the resolution of the European Parliament that we are all calling upon, which is the latest document that we are waving at, to say the least. But we only wave in those articles that suit us to support this bill. And I will then draw out those articles that are in favour of the fact that the existing Law on Same-Sex Communities, which was adopted in 2003, contains such modern solutions, which will only take effect in some Member States of the European Union on the basis of this resolution. So, it's pretty clear if that's already said in point A, which is homophobia, that then in Croatia the state can be very individual but not systematically or in no way organised, therefore, as stated in point 1. that Europe is only strongly condemned by any discrimination based on sexual orientation. And in 2003, we are told in Article 21 not to condemn but to forbid it. Therefore, the Croatian law prohibits what is, of course, legal when broken and easier to prosecute and can be sanctioned. So we can talk about, then, that in some Member States of the European Union gay parades are banned, thanks to Croatia for many years to parade wherever it pleases, no one is prohibited. ... I didn't say, Mr. Representative, provoking, I said parade. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the gay parades were held, just fine, there was no excess. So it's a point C in Croatia long since been consumed. We can also say point F, which says that at the same time in more and more countries is moving towards ensuring the possibility of including respect and providing protection for what I underline, is again resolved in Croatia. Directive 2000/43/EC states that not all Member States are fighting discrimination. Croatia has already fought for no discrimination. We can talk, therefore, about a series of articles but I will remain on the ground that the Law that would go above the Law on Same-Sex Communities, which is in force, which in its 22 articles is good and fair, so to speak, and quite similar to what the classical family has, said so what about the people who are in the community, in which way they have the right to share their property, in which way they have to take care of each other, that is, to refrain from speaking in Chapter II. Also, it is very good and very precise and detailed regulation of property relations and Zucker Komt zu letzst, I repeat, therefore, directly talking about the ban and sanctions with discrimination. And therefore, personally respecting the efforts of course, but not supporting the aggression that seeks to impose what is in a small number of countries. So, Croatia is in its legal legislation, we were talking about minorities yesterday. I'm not going to say that people are different sexual orientations of the minority, but in the sense that, in order not to insult, therefore, and compare, that someone does not replicate to me, national minorities. But, therefore, they are one minority in certain orientations, and they cannot but face peaceful ways and arguments with others who claim the same arguments, therefore, that they should not spread the rights that are very clear, quite enough in which they allow people who want to be together, and the same sex whether they are men, whether they are women, have protection and have the ability to consume as much as most European countries do. And I repeat, therefore, Croatia, it is always good to be in the golden environment, in which it is ahead, and I am not sure that the first one should be in this to enable what, I repeat, most of the members of the European Union, and we as a candidate still have time. So, even when we are admitted to the European Union as an equal member, we will have what to enter as a dowry in this area, and then we will adapt and I hope that for the next few years the good part of the years will be this law on same-sex communities quite enough, quite modern and quite respectable and compared to other European countries. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59635	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59636	It is not the exact quote of colleague Trakostanec that exists, and I quote: "And the aggression that wants to impose this proposal." I can't see, I really don't think anyone could see the aggression of the promoter. It's about one conversation, it's good to talk, it's bad fashion to hear some tones that aren't very piety.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59637	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59638	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me with a few words to refer to the Proposal for a Law on the Registered Partnership attached by colleagues Banac and Lucin. The attached legal solution of the same-sex community would be registered in front of a parent after which all rights and heterosexual couples would be exercised in respect of inheritance rights, health protection, pension insurance. Social care, etc. By listening yesterday and today in this assembly on various aspects of registered partnership or more easily and more recognizable marriage between persons of the same sex and the effects of such a legal partnership, because other than marriage when it comes to entering into a registered partnership in a formal room, the term of marriage mates is changed by the concept of registered partners, I came to the conclusion that it is two realities, two approaches to this problem. The divisions that, at this time, divide us into those allegedly advanced ones who support it and the reverse constraints that we're against. For proper moral and other evaluations, homosexuality is, in the example of this bill, a marriage must be firstly placed, a marriage as a place of origin for the achievement of human sexuality, but on the other hand, as a fundamental cell of human society. Marriage, however many may view it, can neither be nor have there ever been any community of human beings. This as a fact that no ideology so far has been and cannot erase from the human spirit the safety of which marriage exists only between two people of different sexes are also aware of the promoters who simply tried to hide it behind the names of a registered partnership. Because if such suggestions were accepted that we heard about yesterday and today and discussed then we should redefine marriage and family, i.e. These two institutions should deprive essential elements such as Heterosexuality and procreative and educational tasks. Homosexual relationships and possible marriages are not based on natural laws, they are against nature, and in any case it would be dangerous to accept adoption or adoption of children. The term homosexuality marks a sexual preference to its own sex, and the relationship to homosexuality has changed throughout history, depending on time and culture, and some have viewed homosexuality as normal behavior today, and others have treated it as a disease. Especially is it obvious that the dominant culture is disturbed by male homosexualism because lesbianism has never been treated the same and has always been shown much less contempt than it has been for a man. For me, people with homosexual tendencies do not have to be personally responsible for their condition and should be accepted with full respect. All of us who view this proposal differently as being some kind of monster who advocates the abolition or non-recognition of the rights of homosexuals as some conservative, limited people who cannot possibly understand that there are people who are otherwise sexually oriented and who should have every right because we can't imagine that this is something quite normal. And so long as those who speak of us so in their actions do not want to respect our opinions as some hard-core on the other side are sought and glorified democracy and freedom, but regardless of you and such, I will again say that homosexual tendencies are an objective mess, but I do not condemn them because the policy I belong to does not push them away by discriminating them and not looking at them as less valuable. But it's not good on occasion... This Law also calls for some European countries where something has already been regulated, and it is particularly not good at putting a special accent on Christian, Catholic countries such as Portugal or Spain, because even today they have been correcting an incorrect quote, i.e. replica and counterpart Jurjević said that it is not true that in one Spanish which is actually a Catholic country of such things a long time ago, that is to say, a registered partnership has been regulated for some time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think it's important here to say that in these countries, especially when it comes to Spain and the fact that there are socialists who represent other principles and some other principles that are primarily their concern for workers in whom they have so much hope and in whom they have spoken so many times. They can't do much economically because the situation there is the same as it was, but they prefer an ideological dimension, which is the same sex marriages and relations of the state and the church. Even looking at a purely legal view, I believe that there is no need for special regulation of this matter because it is certainly not a vital public interest since those rights can also be protected by general legislation. I, personally as a Catholic parliamentarian and party member, based on the foundations of Christian democracy and civilization, have both a moral duty to publicly and clearly pronounce and express disagreement and to vote against such a proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59639	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59640	The fact that you're a Catholic Parliamentarian and so do you have to do it without particularly pointing out because that's exactly how you suspect that you're acting, and otherwise when it comes to all orders. What kind of unfair laws have we passed here? Is that what you're talking about? Why don't you object to the divorce, please? So let's change that law too, and then let's really be on that trail. The church isn't some kind of self-service that you're going to pull something from the top of the bottom shelf when something suits you... You have a chance in everyday life to live, not say it. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]] We're here with this law that's not counterproductive. Sometimes it's the opposite of what I'm saying is that we thought they were always behind us. And what you're saying is you didn't just quote but it refers to pure male chauvinism that societies tolerate as much lesbianism but not homosexuality between men. That's exactly the feature of an additional discrimination. And let's not pray. Let's be honest here, what our prime minister said and let's call things a real name and that man who speaks several languages, who speaks... and who knows the Croatian language well, so he said in this style, let's not play "toshake." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59641	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59642	First of all, I don't understand why my colleague Anticevic is yelling at me, which makes you nervous. And whether I live as a Catholic Parliamentarian or as a Catholic will be judged by someone else and not you, not you who, as you are in the interest of public appearance as a Catholic as you yourself had yesterday had the opportunity to claim it, then it suits you. But mostly, when it comes to talking about the mass of things that you as a parliamentarian should warn about in terms of Catholicism, then keep your mouth shut and in this way you have never even performed. And as for the chauvinism of male or female, it's not, I just found out the fact that it's known to all of you and about which you're also talking about and also the fact that just these people upstairs at the gallery, these kids who were up there yesterday, and today they're becoming a little bit of those who sit here and think they have support in your performances, and they were actually supposed to see you yesterday when you were really, really laughing at a lot of things that were in favor of what I was talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59643	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic is next in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59644	I think it would be, first of all, bad for us to ideologies this topic and in any way bring it down into some ideological water. Earlier, my colleague Mlinaric mentioned some of my political beliefs and beliefs on the subject. A fellow dancer mentioned Spain. It is not good for us to talk in this House about whether the Socialists in a distant country who won the democratic elections at the power of Spanish citizens, whether they give the rights of this kind to a group of citizens because they cannot fix the economic situation. The reality is completely different. Spain has never been better. I came back from there the other day. It's pretty good. It'd be good to have it down here, too. So the point is, it's not an ideological question. This is a question, nor is this an advocate for homosexualism, this is a question of the right of a group of our fellow citizens to have certain rights based on sexual proclivities that do not put us at risk. Whether we're willing to give them those rights or not is basically everything. I'm not going to mention conservatism here, or anything but most of those who were against the law alone were saying I'm a traditionalist, I do this, and I really call myself in a multiconfessional country, state, society constantly on a religious community or on a wider circle... I don't think so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's talk about it. The law probably won't pass if most are against it and that's the case, we're in parliament. But let us therefore be able to talk about it without ideological and political disqualifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59645	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59646	Well, I didn't call Spain. You yourself were the same as the promoter yesterday, Mr. Lucin said that there are countries, and then in the list of these, you said that there is also a Catholic Spain where such a law has already been passed. That's the first thing. And I tried to answer you and it's again I say my opinion is that in all countries where such laws were passed are in power or at the time when such laws were passed were parties belonging to socialist, social democratic options. And just as these parties want to pass such laws and such legislation, you will allow the conservative democratic parties to accept such legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59647	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59648	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! Having listened to the debate on this bill so far, I have a few questions about people who are committed to their own sex and who no longer want to, I can't, so ultimately they don't have to suffer any social consequences because of their sexual commitment. Who are they really threatening? No one. Who are they bothering? Well, probably only those who had dreams and desires in their lives other than conventional social clichés who didn't have the courage to make such desires and dreams come true. What do they want? They want to live a life of dignity with the person they chose and want to share their feelings and property with that person. And I ask you, who are we to prevent them from doing so? On 18 January, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on homophobia in the European Union which requires Member States of the European Union to adopt legislation prohibiting discrimination between same-sex partners in the field of succession, property relations, rental, pension insurance, tax system, social security, etc. Since you are Croatia's candidate for membership in the European Union, the government's negative opinion on this bill is embarrassing. In the light of this attitude, it states, among other things, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia believes that the Family Law and the Law on Same-Sex Communities have fully regulated the rights of man to marry, to live in a heterogeneous extramarital community and to live in the same-sex community. But there's a real practical beginning and an end. However, in the light of this proposal, the ten-page bill describes all the shortcomings in our legislation regarding the rights of same-sex communities, resulting in the government's opinion being very superficial and showing how far the government is really away from European civilization gains. This law is not only proposed to regulate the right of entry into the community of equally-oriented persons but also to address the rights arising from this kind of family community and not to be quite clear and sufficient, as counterpart Sučec-Tracostanec says, but practically does not exist at all. The fact is that the same sex community is as informal as the extramarital community. But that doesn't say there's an equal range of rights. Partners in the extramarital community have almost half of all the rights granted by marriage partners while same-sex partners only have the right to maintain and regulate property-legal relations that do not relate to inheritance. There is a possibility of inheriting a will provision but then paying taxes as well as any inheritance outside the family community or blood kinship. But neither where such a possibility exists in the event of sudden death without a will. And an unknown cousin in the fifth generation who didn't even know the deceased has a better right than, for example, a longtime same-sex partner. What about the right to inherit an apartment or a house where partners lived together? What about the right to health insurance by partner or partner or the right to a family pension? What about the right to tax relief on a partner as a family member? What about the right to visit a partner in the intensive care department at the hospital? And don't let me count on it. So the rights that exist are actually just declarative nature. The application of the Law on Equal Communities was certainly an important step at the time of adoption. But it's time to move forward towards real equality. In a session of the Committee on Gender Equality, it was concluded that it was not even known to the applicant how many persons in the Republic of Croatia are both sexual orientations proposed by the adoption of the Law on the Registered Partnership. They probably didn't know that in Britain when the law was passed, but hundreds of couples who were waiting outside the door of local courts for documents on the law of a relationship already on the first day of the law were proof that such a law was absolutely necessary. Furthermore, at a meeting of the same Committee, the opinion was that, in order to protect the interests of children registered partners, they should not be allowed to engage in foster care for the purpose of raising children in such communities, as well as the sexual orientation of children. Is there perhaps research in the world that would confirm this view? Since there are no such attitudes, I find it very humiliating by implying that something bad, something that should be ashamed of, is being equally targeted. Dr Mlinaric concluded on behalf of the HDZ Club that there must be no denying the child's right to grow up in the family. I ask you what's better and which child family would prefer to choose? The one in whom daily abuse is present both a child and a marriage mate is usually a woman or living in a family of same - sexed partners in the atmosphere of love and warmth. The child's interest is to be loved, to have a home, and that can give him the same sex-oriented person as heterosexuals. And the claim that life in a homosexual family could affect the sexual orientation of children is just funny because today's adults with same-sex orientation used to be children and grow up right in the traditional heterosexual families of their parents just as defined by the Family Law and yet their parents' sexual orientation did not affect their choice. Because it can't be affected. You're just born like that so the HDZ Club or Dr. Mlinaric thinks. In a survey on the "gay.hr" web portal, a survey was conducted to respond to 404 visitors on the same-sex orientation page, 62% of whom replied that if the law allowed them to conclude a same-sex marriage or community. In Croatia it takes great courage for so-called "comming out" or accepting yourself and revealing yourself to others and as the recent events testify mostly out of fear of attack and rejection of the environment. Although I don't think anyone should wear a board with their sexual commitment around their necks I think it's better if they hate you for who you are than if they loved you for what you're not. The proposed law on registered partnership is a fundamental step towards introducing more equal legislation for sexual minorities in the Republic of Croatia, a step forward towards the real equality of all its citizens, including Article 14. The Constitution, regardless of their gender, political or other belief, social position or other characteristics, and I therefore welcome the motion and join all those who support the view that this law is going to a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59649	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59650	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague listed a series of incorrect allegations. One of them is that it's embarrassing, yes, it's a shameful opinion of this government. My colleague, dear, I think that the opinion of this government that has been delivered by our government is truly excellent. Respecting all the charters, all the international institutions, all the European conventions, however, it is embarrassing what you bring to equalize this law with the Family Law where you mix marriage with the same-sex community and with a registered partnership and where you allow a 16-year-old child to enter such an institution. And this government is just fighting the institutionalization that you're imposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59651	Second correction, honourable representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59652	Dear Mr. President, respected advocates of a whole series of studies, there is a whole series of studies about psychological, psychological and psychodynamics of the origin of homosexuality. There's a whole series of studies, so I'm sure we've read them, that we know them. And precisely the influence of a father or mother, the wrong influence of a father and mother are one of the essential causes of homosexuality. And therefore, if a child grows up without a father or mother certainly yes, everyone without a father or mother that has one essential psychodynamic influence on his development mentally and physically. So you have no right here and so does Spicer, Robert Spicer, who was one of the greatest supporters to strip homosexuality as a disease 30 years ago in America. Today he completely changed his mind because he says there are a large number of people who are after conversion [[Thank you very much.]] back to heterosexuality. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59653	We have several replicas, a respected representative of Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59654	You respected colleagues of Pernar began to explain a paradox that is not only characteristic of our country as we have seen here from this debate but perhaps for others. That's what Dr. Banac started talking about on behalf of the promoter. How can those who oppose the adoption of such laws or laws have thoughts, thought or secretly and practiced such proclivities while others, those who advocate the adoption of such laws or similar ones have less or less? So it's one of the paradoxes that usually tortures our society, and within the framework of that finding that it's exact that more men and women don't want to register their partnership, and on the other hand, we have exactly the need, at least we, to propose a law like this. However, here it is obvious, I would like to highlight a political profitability in addition to what you wanted to explain. The ruling are aware that it is a minority, that it is a small minority that is not as interesting as voters, but you see, today they can become a political party tomorrow. So here's the question, if that were to be decided at some level of government behavior, would you still be in this position?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59655	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59656	Well, I would say that if this population, this minority in Croatia today became a political party, it would probably be very interesting for the ruling party to co-operate with them, so their rights would be very important to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59657	Second replica, Honored Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59658	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, a community of warm brothers does not necessarily guarantee the warmth of a adopted child’s home.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59659	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic, the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59660	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, colleague Perman, I had to respond to your claim, or to your question rhetorically, as we will. Is it better for a child to grow up in the same sex community or in a family where daily harassment occurs? That way you've already idealized the same-sex community. Where does it say there's no daily bullying? Secondly, I'm almost sure this is your support, not only of you but also of your parties, part of a pre-election campaign, and it's likely to be the crown of all weddings in Iblero Square organized for the same-sex communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59661	And the next replica, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59662	Mr. President, I've raised a plate to correct the incorrect allegations, but I can also replicate and tell my colleague that it's not true when she said that there are practically no rights in the same-sex community. There is also a very clear right of restraint when they are in the same-sex community, even at the end of the same-sex community, there is a right to support that partner who does not earn himself. And very clearly, property relations are defined. So property relations that define their own and acquired assets, under the property, of course they involve real estate and movable property, regulates the question of the apartment. It is not true, therefore, that there is no regulated question of ownership of joint properties and everything they acquire before, as their own gain, they bring into marriage, during, I say, conditionally, under quotes, "marriage" which in certain parts it is, of course. So, I'm going to say that qualifications and I, that the government's opinion is embarrassing, can't stand. So it's such a disqualification of a realistic opinion based on existing regulations. And I repeat to European practice. Most European countries do not even have what Croatia has. Some have a little more, and most of them don't have what we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59663	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59664	Well, I'm still staying on my claim that these rights are practically just a declarative nature. This is exactly what you mentioned the right to inherit. The right to inherit that, but only if there is a will, only if tax is paid which does not pay a member of the rope family etc. Practically anyone, I can inherit one of you and I will have the same rights as a member who lives in the same sex community. So his rights are nothing greater. On the other hand, as for the disgrace of the government's position. It is also evident that, of the two ministers, two state secretaries and two ministerial assistants who are listed here, they will be present at the Parliament's meeting when it comes to the debate, it is obvious and evidence in favour of the claim that the position itself is disgraced. And secondly, how much... It actually keeps to this home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59665	Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59666	Your Honor, Mr. President. Proposers of this law, distinguished colleagues Ivo Banac and Shime Lucin cite a series of laws under which some rights are filed on persons due to discrimination of sexual commitment. Although there is still no single view in the European Union on the legalisation of marriages of same-sex communities, there is still an evolution of thinking both in political circles and in society in general. After all, by the age of 70, homosexuality was primarily the male being prosecuted. And today she is considered one of the fundamental human rights. Whenever there is a debate about such or similar laws, it goes from categorizing how immoral, against nature, against the law and the faith of sodomy. These are really not arguments, but only products of ignorance and fear of something different. Proponents of the recognition of extramarital heterosexual communities wanted exclusive legal recognition that would give them protection of certain rights, primarily economic ones. The analogy concludes that this should also be allowed to same-sex communities because they are seeking the same legal protection from the state that discriminates against them. Unfortunately, in our society it is immoral to ask why same-sex communities should receive these benefits. The answer is very simple. Because the registered partnership is getting much more, and the constitutional principles on which this state rests speak very clearly about the equality of all citizens, regardless of religion, age, sex or sexual orientation. I'd just end up adding one thing. I don't think this is about lagging behind and moving forward. I think this is just about being insecure about yourself. I don't believe that a man who is certain of his manhood and a woman who is certain of his femininity can have any fear of passing this bill or at least permitting it. So we don't have to accept this bill as a whole, but we can talk in a civilized way, we can all make some conclusions together, so let's let it come to another reading. We don't need a prior to the knife to each other. I think there's a lot of debate here that we heard last night and today about 2% of people's homosexual tendencies, I don't think that's nearly accurate. I think it's working from 8 to 10% in every community and in Croatia, that they don't have the courage to consume that homosexuality, it's something else. And I think it's those people who are not sure about their sexual orientations or their ego that I think these people are the most opposed to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59667	Honorable representative Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59668	Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of my fellow MPs who said that here fear is the reason for some of this law to be passed. It is simply not true, because fear belongs to an irrational category, and here is why some resist the adoption of this law, knowledge based on education and arguments that we have made in our debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59669	Replications. Niko Rebić, the Honorable Representative first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59670	... The consequences of such decisions can be inconceivable for all the order of human relations. [[Specially enabled.]] If Parliament can vote on what marriage is as a community of persons, who will prevent it from voting what it is and what is not a human person and whether each person has equal personal dignity and basic right to life and what is most needed for life. This is the introduction I'd say in a far more far-reaching effect than we introduce to a small door, and I think this is the best thing that talks about what the bill is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59671	Second replica, Honored Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59672	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the second day we've talked about this law, and I think we've lost everything. I think the bill itself went a lot easier in this House of Highs that he went to a proposal for a law on same-sex communities. But no, he went directly to the Family Law. So when we tried to upgrade some points maybe with the additions, with amendments to the existing Law on Same-Sex Communities, to make it easier and not come to this, I'd say pink-punk. We all think the same thing here, I guarantee by these things 100%. It's just that when you said "honored colleague" courage. I've met one and the other and the third in my life, but I have an opinion on it. I can't bring it out here, because I'm sure that my opinion disagrees with most of those who would like to make political points saying what they don't really mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59673	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59674	So here's this replica of my esteemed colleagues I really respect and I think we're about the same attitude. But I don't agree when there's always something about the church here. The Old Testament says, "If you see a man go to a man to beat him with stones." A rock to kill him. ... No, it's true, ma'am. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] True, I assure you it's true. It's an old vow. ... No, no, I'm deliberately mentioning it because we're going [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59675	Gentlemen, please, no polemics. No breach of the Rules of Procedure, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59676	I just want to say that we're all progressing civilizationally, that to minorities, so any minority, we should give rights, but I also agree that we should have led this whole discussion and debate to one other level in real terms, but believe me, there's no fear. Those people who have security about themselves, no need and who have knowledge of this problem, really have no reason to fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59677	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Željka Babić Petričević, Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59678	Mr. President, I am Zdenka Babić Petričević, I have no spiritual or physical similarities with Zeljko. I refer to Article 214. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Kurtov injured Article 214(6) of the mistreatment and insults by his conduct he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament and does not well quote what I will not repeat. If you are quoting the Holy Scriptures or the Church or the Bible, you have the right to do so as all believers or unbelievers, but then quote correctly and do not defend what is not defensive today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59679	It's no violation of the Rules of Procedure. It is an interpretation of the different position of the other representative. And the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative, Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59680	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Article 214 also. I'm just going to look back on, I can't call it the quotes of the Old Testament because Mr. Kurt is guaranteed not in the Old Testament. You have thus hurt the basic religious feelings of all of us who perhaps know little more than you and the Old and New Testament, and it would be correct for Mr. President to give such innuendos to the Holy Scriptures and the Old Testament and to give notice to such a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59681	It's not about any colleague hurting the Rules of Procedure. The interpretation of the Old Testament and the quotation of the Old Testament is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59682	Your Honor, Mr. President. My dear colleague, you're going against those who don't think like you're discrediting, you're calling us who we think differently that we are insecure in our sexual identity, my dear friend. My dear friend, you do not distinguish between the basic things that we are saying here, we are very different from the institution of marriage and family and the institution of the same-sex community. That's not, not anthropologically, not biologically, not physiologically, not sociologically. And you, dear friends, seek the same rights for these two institutions, both communities. That's all we're against. And you also appeal to the right of every person, which is in all existing laws, to either enter into a heterosexual marriage or a same-sex community. It's his right. This right should be stronger than the rights of a child who is proven to be the best adult in the family, for his psychophysiological development is raising a child in a family absolutely priority. You now have the right to enter and the same sex community is stronger than the right of a child to grow up in a heterosexual community in marriage. So that's where we disagree, and there's no fear, no homophobia, no discrimination. And that's why we can't accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59683	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59684	There'd be a lot to talk about different opinions and replicas here today. However, if you feel that homosexuality is achieved by choosing, that it is created, or is more likely that in a homosexual marriage a child who would accidentally be raised will become homosexuality itself, and we know that all homosexuals are born and created in heterosexual marriages or relationships. I don't think it's important to talk about it at all. If you think homosexuality can be treated, it's a disease, then we here today at a political level have nothing to discuss. I think no homosexual has become what he chose. I think he was born so from his father and mother and that it just happened and that they have the same right in this country, and in every other state, to all rights as all other citizens. That's my opinion and I stand behind it and I stand behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59685	Next replica, the esteemed representative, Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59686	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In this debate, it is indeed necessary to stress that democracy is a system based on disagreement in the opinion. And as far as the proposal is concerned, I think it's really about politics and nothing else. It is, in fact, a political will to recognise the right of minority citizens. That's what we're discussing. Does it wish to be recognised to the citizens who are among us in the minority? It is decided by the majority and assessed by the majority's democracy. Those who reject the bill as a whole, they do not want to discuss the legal protection of the minority at all. About the legal protection of the minority who, if it weren't for this relationship between the majority and the minority, would come alone with a proposal in this Croatian Parliament. And one more thing. I'd like to ask those who claim that the parents, under alleged signs, are responsible for sexual orientation, not to accuse the parents. Especially when they claim to be anthropological and biologically different from most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59687	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59688	So I'm just thanking my colleague, Lek, for starting out, for just touching the subject that we are discussing politics here today and that we should have more compassion and understanding about the minority, any minority. If this bill of law is rejected in advance without a chance for another reading, without a chance for an honest discussion, can we all help that minority together? Well, we don't have to accept this bill entirely. We can just have some parts of it, we can add 70, 50% of our amendments, our proposals. But it was lagging behind, only a Priory rejects and proves by some of his Christian, moral principles. That's not true. These are neither Christian nor moral, nor any other principle. Here's just the principle of overcoming minority rights, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59689	Next replica, respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59690	Thank you very much. Here, dear colleague Kurt. When you spoke in your debate that there is a certain amount of fear when it comes to not accepting this proposal among HDZ deputies. Well, look, I claim that the dose of fear feels among you. Why? Because if you wanted to solve the same-sex community this way, then you would have solved it when you passed the Law on the same-sex communities. And now with the bill of this law, you want to court this little constituency body. Because if you're aware, you're certainly aware that this bill of yours will not be supported by anyone other than SDP and HNS, but fear has just arisen because you have to agree with each other how much anyone will attract these homosexual communities of voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59691	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59692	Dear colleagues, it never occurred to me that I would declare HDZ MPs that way. Don't ever think about it again. I'm just people who don't support, and the Priors reject this conversation, and I don't think it's good faith or good intentions. And as for fear, ma'am, don't worry, Zeljko Kurtov... It's known that there's no fear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if I had a tendency and if I were anything, not just homosexuality or heterosexuality, don't worry, I'd be the one to make a public declaration. I'm not afraid of anyone. So don't worry about my fear, but believe me, two percent of homosexuals who plead and consume it have six to eight percent of those who fear to consume it in their own desire, let alone make it public. I think about these people, ma'am, not the HDZ parliamentary representatives or any other party. I beg you, don't twist my words any more than you say what I really say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59693	And distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59694	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Kurt, since you mentioned a relationship with God, a relationship with God, a man, you mentioned the Bible, etc. I'll tell you my own belief in these things, that is, about those grounds. So I am convinced that man cannot separate himself, cannot separate himself from God, I am talking about those who believe or nature about those who do not believe, nor can they separate morals from politics. It's different if I do it that way and if I do it, whether we break up and split up, it says it, but I'm convinced that it can't and can't, and whenever I do it, there's a problem, and we have a problem in politics either at our own personal level. That's one thing. The second thing, when we talk about the first people you spoke of here, I ask the question is, has it ever happened in Croatia so far that someone has influenced someone's choice to live one way or another? That when two people decided to live together gay or heterosexual that I didn't know the neighborhood was upset, that the police intervened, that they banned it, etc. That never happened. So what's the problem? We have the Family Law, we have the Law of Same-Sex Communities, I don't see what the problem is. On the other hand, when it comes to fostering, and in particular by adopting children, it is known that in Croatia families wait years for the child to adopt, for years and cannot adopt it. It's the same thing when it comes to foster care. Does this mean that, according to your law, the next day of this community, homosexuals would even have the advantage of adopting and fostering such children again as a sign of blatant discrimination? Who asks these children, who asks their parents if they have a choice? So no one's taking care of them and I'm against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59695	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59696	Well, dear colleague, we agree on a lot of things what you just said, and I don't know what the problem is. The problem is that I want to, and this isn't our bill, this is Mr. Lucin and Mr. Banz's bill. So it's not our proposal, I'm merely substituting this Law in this House to make an honest debate about how far we can go. Have we, like the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian state, come to one from a politically mature situation so that we can discuss this realistically and honestly without any hysterical outbursts? You can mention faith and church, I don't. Why? So who can forbid me from you? Well, none of you are more Catholic than I am, and God is no smaller. Well, this is a replica and other colleagues who have spoken before, but believe me, this about adopting children, as far as anything else is concerned, so I know that in Croatia it's a big problem that families that are normal don't have children, wait for years, a lot of things we have to discuss here, but this is one of the laws that I also want to support to give him a chance to discuss, to come to meet these people as much as we can today in our society and how psychologically we can accept it at all. That's all I wanted, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59697	Proposer of the Law, respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59698	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let me get a few brief evaluations of the current course of debate, so I'll actually get back to square one. If you remember last night, I said in the introduction several findings that unfortunately we didn't even try to stick to in this debate. The first was that this was not the Law on Gays but that this was the Law on Human Rights, so then I truly expressed my conviction that this Law would receive support based on a debate that was conducted an hour or two earlier on some other minorities, these are national minorities. You know, if you're proving your commitment to human rights affirmation, protecting minorities you can't select, so you're going to say if I'm going to support this minority, I'm going to give her all the benefits, and I'm not going to give her another minority because it's possible that she doesn't match up with my worldview, with my views on the world, etc. Just if you remember yesterday I prayed that in the debate, the argument does not retreat and does not reach out with the argument of the church, the religion or the voter's views. Why? Teached by the experience I had in the previous discussions of the discussion when they go on this ideological, secular level they go in the wrong direction. If you try to see what we've been discussing here for several hours about anthropology, genetics, medicine, we've actually discussed everything and everything, but we haven't discussed the law. I'm not saying this is about law. In fact, the whole discussion went my way in one wrong direction. She's heading towards this Parliament that I don't know has turned into some sort of class, some academy or I don't know what, and he's starting to incompetently discuss the nature of sexuality. I personally don't dare, and I don't feel competent to talk about it metrically, but actually in a way that we discuss the nature of homosexuality, the nature of family, what it is family, etc. We went to another extreme that we forgot actually the story about the metrics, and that's the real ones. We've called it a natural law, we don't know about natural laws, we've been referring to something that's natural, something isn't natural. I mean who's the one who can tell you what's natural, who isn't? As far as I know, if the laws of nature depend on which philosopher and which philosopher you are calling for from that period, then if we're all born the same then we all have the same right to the laws, so in a certain way it seems to me to fall into one logical trap. We also heard some reviews that I would dare say are not a good message to the Croatian public. That homosexuals are aggressive, aggressive, that they organize some kind of parade in which they insult, I don't know whose dignity, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. Well, dear ladies and gentlemen, give some other recipe to make minority choices for your rights. When was it that some minority, by its aggression, threatened most in some peaceful protest? Also from this pay phone in my opinion, this is also not correct, and there have been some grades on civil society associations that represent and fight for gay rights. Well, I don't know who's suing him, so they're suing him. Let's say Mr. Caine, he's not here. I know that he partly took that attitude because of his personal attitude toward a society that actually called him. But I'm also warning you of one fact. A step is not big between what we have a chance to read and hear about homosexuals until hate speech. Don't forget one more thing, and we need to think about it. Croatia is one of the few countries that does not adequately address hate speech in criminal law, hate speech. Now, listen, I don't think this House is the place, whether I agree or not. And it's normal to disagree. And no one I think against it has anything but we still have to preserve some dignity. I think a statement like this I don't know that in Croatia gays have to wait until the defence problem is solved is actually one pair of excellents to say homophobic statements. The other is, when someone mentions that I don't know the warm brothers, I don't know why they're left out warm sisters, they actually have something to show for it. So let me, as I respect your attitude and listen to it as nicely as I do, I still think that in this debate, certain attitudes that are homophobic have been expressed, whether you agree to it or not. I'm not even talking about the general position that I'm in favour and against, but I'm talking about the way that attitude is expressed. Because trying to prove and try to rely on a scientific or semi-science theory that homosexuals are homosexuals because their father and mother have some feller or are not born or live in broken families is actually a story that leads to water on a completely different mill. I repeat, let's try to maintain our rights. As far as the rate of discussion itself is concerned, I think she's actually just staying on the surface. From what I understand, the basic problem is what this law is trying to do in a certain way to endanger the sanctity of the family. It even goes on and on, so it is not recognised that a family can be without a man and a woman, so only a father or only a mother, so it is forgotten that a family can be without a child, etc. By consulting with a colleague, Banc, how to contribute to the debate so far, and perhaps to direct the second part of the debate in the other direction, we agreed to withdraw two articles concerning the issue and which even mention children. So that space, so to shorten even more rights, for a simple reason, to give this law to go to another reading so that it can be complemented. Those who say that the current legal decisions are consummated with all the rights that are treated in this law are either malicious or do not read the laws. Again someone may get angry, because if you read these items and articles from... You'll see it's only two rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when you have a family or a marriage community, when you have what we propose a registered partnership or a registered partnership, there is a series of rights. Here, I tried to make a few concrete contributions to make this debate and actually to concentrate in this debate on the essence, which is a legal aspect. These are the rights of a minority who exist in Croatian society, who live here, who are our fellow citizens, our family, friends but unfortunately do not have the same rights as those who are not that minority. Size and strength, and the strength of the majority is as much as ready to give rights to the minority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59699	Thank you. We have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59700	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Lucin has made a very dangerous claim and thesis, says every minority should be protected. Minor rapists, hit men, paedophiles, murderers, former associates... and KOS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Would you protect them?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59701	Zdenka Babić-Petricevic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59702	Mr. President, counterpart Lucin in Croatia is not at risk of human rights of national minorities and we proved this yesterday with a report on the rights and work of national minorities and their rights in the Republic of Croatia. I like that and what happens in other countries never happened again. I am proud that every national minority in the Republic of Croatia is protected in the hope that Croatian national minorities in European countries will experience at least 5% of the rights they enjoy in Croatia. That'd be the first one. Secondly, there is talk of hate speech and that it is not hate speech that is punishable or determined by law. Will you return the verbal delinquent that lasted 50 years because of the spoken word about the deceased for example... Many have been on the naked island for ten years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end you said something good, that it would be good to get out of this law, that you would get out of this law Articles 16, 17 and 18. Oh, Mr. Lucin, please. What makes it same-sex communities that they gain in Croatian society greater values than marriages that are supported by God and the Croatian peoples.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59703	Thank you very much. Third correction, respected representative Marijan Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59704	Your Honor, Mr. President! Dear colleague Lucin, you said that the debate in this House was going in the wrong direction. I don't think the debate is going in the wrong direction, but the law is set on the wrong preambles. We objectively said that the family and marriage that are under special protection of the state know why, because the basic cells of human society, they can't be and can't identify with the same-sex community, they can't. And you signed the Family Law for same-sex communities. If you'd made a law extended on same-sex communities, there wouldn't have been so much resistance. It would probably be a better discussion than you simply signed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59705	Respected representative Carmela Capari's correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of a colleague who said we didn't discuss homosexual rights in this House. In fact, in my own debate, I said that they have the right to establish a same - sex community and that life in it has the right to every single individual. But, gentlemen, you're looking for the right to do so through a change of family law that you've completely rewritten, only to change that marriage is equal to entering into a registered partnership. That marriage is equal to a registered partnership and that a bride and groom is equal to the person who enters a registered partnership. That it's about a partner or a partner. And not only do you need to withdraw these two articles, but you need to withdraw the whole law because you disrespect the Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59707	Dear Representative Marko Turic. The next correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59708	Dear Mr. President, as I was called by counsel Lucin where he heard a terrible thing from me where he compares minorities to, which are now being addressed by Croatian defenders. I am doing it both knowingly and deliberately because it is our environment, we live here, we are witnesses and responsible and Croatian defenders are something that if it hadn't been for them we were talking about this law liberal that I am absolutely not who the newspaper brought about about me. I'm a reasonable man, but it takes a priority to make things look right. So I stand by, I said we'll sort this out, but give the gentlemen so gallantly because that and these communities, these minorities who are they want it. So to get rid of it. And secondly, I can't take the impression as a doctor that Dear Representative Frana Matušić. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59709	Dear Representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59710	Thank you, Mr. President. So I am correcting the incorrect assumption that Croatia is among the few countries that did not legally sanction hate speech. Since 1990, Croatia has been among a large number of democratic countries where the fundamental democratic principle of freedom of speech is valid, and if, by any chance, the return of what counterpart Shime Lucin says would really be a return to the verbal delinquent, but I am afraid that in the event of a return to that law and sanctioning hate speech, it might be without its party colleagues in benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59711	Dear Representative Kajo Bucan, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59712	I'm correcting Mr. Lucin's incorrect claim that there was a homophobia here and he says, "I don't mean everything that's said but also in the way that some of the attitudes have been expressed," imputing that there was a body speech here instead of saying a word. Here was the exclusive speech of the word and the calling that if he is indeed democratic, then he should allow the opinion to differ rather than that of the one who thinks like, does not think as he warns him to promote the climate of intolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59713	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59714	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that there's been quite a bad atmosphere in this assembly, although here we've been talking for two days about a fundamental human problem, about human freedom. We are talking about human freedom here in a concrete society, in Croatian society. We also know that this is a group we're talking about that is in some way threatened by the behaviour of some of our fellow citizens, exposed to violence, ugly names, excommunications in a certain way, and that's why they're often driven, into quotes in social illegality. Because they're often exposed to violence. Well, let's not do that. I think every benevolent person here knows we shouldn't hide it from each other. We're not these thugs, but there are groups who think they should be dealt with. I only ask you to retort anything in this, in this hall we don't contribute that someone thinks that there really should be someone to deal with because these or those in this case are sexual commitment. That's why I'm a fellow Turkish, here he is, which is why I'm against your category machine. I'm not going to go into your thought of what you were going to say when you said it, but when you said, "Peders can wait," but then you talked in a vulgar way about a group of our fellow citizens. When you said "hot brothers" you spoke with disrespect about these people. This is why the syntagma is bad when spoken in the Assembly Hall, it is bad when spoken in four home walls, but when pronounced here, it has no weight because it is pronounced by a parliamentary representative representing the citizens of Croatia. That's why I think we need to be responsible for our vocabulary. Against his own dictionary. We're talking about a problem that we have different opinions about and that's OK. Let's think differently about it, but I think we've created a bad atmosphere. You spoke of a man's world and a woman's world yesterday. I think that's a bad message. Those syntagms are my side. I can talk about people. One of the people is human. Not a woman, not a man. So I'm saying when I said at the beginning when we talk about the problem of human freedom then there is no such kind of thing as reducing freedom to this, freedom to the skinny, to the fat, small, tall, those without fingers, without, we can and we can do it. But if we mark people by these criteria, by any criteria, that's bad. Then it's a bad message leaving the assembly. He said we should ignore what's going on in Europe, what's going on in Europe, we don't care what's going on. I'm so glad he came in. I think we're going to relativize everything. It's a normal thing. Well, there are some things we have in front of some European countries. Here's what we said about Spain. Me and my colleague, Dance. There's now a big debate about whether religious science will be an election subject. It's already in Croatia. We're right in front of them. And we're not at all worse. Somewhere we are even better than countries that are the concept of democracy and so on. But we're a lot worse than that, for God's sakes. I, given what's been said so far, wouldn't be much of a talker. This is where it's developed now and the discussion is whether it's a disease or not? Please, nice. For some, it's oral sex, for some, it's not. There are some diseases I don't know what, and the law can get into people's beds, really, it can get in. But then I think we'll all wish, like that Big Brother, that I know we can be a society like that. I'd only read some names in the end, Alexander the Great, Pedro Almodor, Hans Christian Andersen, Sir. Francis Bacon, Josephine Baker, James Baldwin, Ann Bancroft, Sir. James Bary, Ruth Benedict, Leonard Bernstein, Elizabeth... Benjamin Britan, Charlotte Bronte, Lord Byron, Tracy Chapman, Leonardo Da Vinci, Isidora Duncan, Margaret Fulham, Frida Kalo, Katarina Great, Federico Garcia De Lorca, Margaret... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Isaac Newton,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Plato, Marcel Proust, Richard the Lion Heart, Eeleonor Rosswelt, George Sant,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] William Shakespeare, Peter Ilich Tchaikovsky, Go Vidal, Walt Witman, Tennessee Williams, Virginia Wolf, Margaret... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you, are these sick people, do they belong to people with whom human civilization should be tolerated or placed in minorities that we won't even give as many rights as we have? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are people who were either gay or gay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59715	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59716	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that we've created a bad atmosphere in our debate. Apparently, a colleague when we discuss things differently and we think it's a bad atmosphere for you in this House. I'm sorry you talked about these names, because the way they lived is really their thing. And here we are discussing neither the European law nor the world law, but the Croatian law that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59717	Second correction, honourable representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59718	Your Honor, Mr. President. First, the world of men. I said, mentioning a man's world not in the context of sharing a man's and woman's world, but in the context of creating a child's personality when, when a child who was neglected by his father, who was harassed by his father, cannot be identified and cannot be included in his father's man's world. So I don't share a man's and woman's world. And as for the disease, dear friend Robert Spicer took off, was the main one to take off that disease 30 years ago from the American List of Diseases. Today, however, he completely changed his mind. Of the 200 people he had treated more than 64%, he made marriages and became heterosexual and happily living in marriage. They're willing to testify. So there's a possibility of conversion and that's why you wouldn't discuss whether it's a disease or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59719	Thank you. A few replicas. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59720	Mr. President, colleague Jurevic. You spoke today and said you were talking today about violating human rights. It is about concrete freedom in the Croatian people. We're talking about freedom. Freedom is a gift of God in the Croatian people by Croatian blood. In this Croatian state, I repeat once again, all minorities and Croatian peoples and individuals are protected. And first I will say, if it is a minority, their lives, let their determination bear the responsibility as they bear families for themselves, for their own responsibility, for the future of life. No one's challenging them. But you can't define something that isn't. God said in the Book of Revelation: "I create man and woman to create life and family.". This community cannot create life and family as it should, I am talking about the Croatian Assembly, about the bill proposed by representatives in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of what political implementations are, you cannot put something in a special place which is neither the future nor the Croatian state nor the Croatian people. How they defined themselves, their lives or their fate, or their happiness or their misfortune. As people take care in marriage communities about their lives, so let them take care of the details, their work, and their pawning. But there's something else I'd like to ask you. My colleague Caparin, it's not about a minor child among them, apparently and more, I'm talking about allegedly. So if it's working, if they're pointing fingers at the state's attorney's office everywhere, make sure that's the case because underage kids can't protect themselves, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59721	... parents until...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59722	Are you listening to me, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59723	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59724	Comrade Zdenko, we probably didn't get along well. I was talking about human freedom as a fundamental problem, something that defines a man, so if you want to be both natural and social in a broader context. And really, what you're talking about doesn't have much to do with it. Although there's something. So it's still a specific community, we live where we live. And indeed, like those people who represent Croatian citizens in this House where laws are passed, I think we must do everything to protect all people. And to me, you know, maybe sexual intercourse and sexual intercourse are one of the last natural relationships and oasis in what's left of people. But I don't get into the nature of it, I'm not God, I don't judge who's going to be with anyone, with no sex, no why or how. If he's not threatening me, I want to give him that freedom. And I think most of this has to enable a minority, and this is at the level of ensuring some of the rights after the withdrawal of more of these members who have been proposed, I really think they've removed all doubt that I don't know what kind of a traditional or worldview is at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59725	Next replica, respected representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59726	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think it's like you say about a vulnerable group like it has been said so far and it might be about femininity, manhood, politics. I'd say this is about pure politics. Not supporting the same-sex registered partnership whether that's why I'm uncivilized, whether I'm doing my different opinion on this homophobe proposal, I believe I'm not. I understand the Commissioner's intensities to regulate this bill of law some material things people tend to have in the same-sex community, but I believe they have existing laws and that existing laws are already somewhat and arranged. I allow others to think differently and live differently regardless of political or other orientation. I view this bill as a parent, as a father, and I am concerned about my children. Set up gentlemen and you who have children and support this law would you like your child to consume such a law. I don't and I don't stand in protection and stand in protection of both my children and the children of other parents and other parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59727	Replica response, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59728	I find it unquestionable that this group is compromised and that's where we differ from each other. And it is unquestionable that neither my children nor your children will be free until everyone is free, and even by this criterion, not because what would be yours or mine or anyone whose children consume right under that law, but because they have what they have, so whoever they are and whatever children they are, who we have to allow to have those rights because they do not threaten us, and we are the majority who can only give them those rights, who really do not threaten us by anything. That's what this is about. I belong to a group of people who think we won't be free until we make it possible for others, and this is a matter of freedom whether you believe it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59729	Death to fascism and freedom to the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59730	Death of stupidity...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59731	Third replica, Honorable Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59732	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Jurjevic, you obviously listened or just wanted to hear what was said on this side of the assembly, so at one point you said you cared about us for Europe. But on your part, it's from this part that this is what we're talking about European civilizational gain, so now do you agree or disagree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59733	Replica response, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59734	First of all, I'm not on a quiz, nor do I think that those we're talking about are... Nothing to answer about a group of our fellow citizens who speak offensive language. [[You don't understand.]] And what is European gain? It's freedom, for sure. More recent political history, and in fact the whole history is an effort to adopt freedom as some smarter and already dead philosophers who were smarter than us here, so let's put that little effort into it. A little effort, not too much. And throughout history would be to discuss the periods of these, those traditions, etc. But really, it's all getting pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59735	And the next replica, respected representative and vice president Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59736	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, let me just say, as far as my child is concerned, I would love him equally, support him equally, and care for her equally no matter what direction she would have been. Therefore, it has nothing to do with the child’s orientation. And by the way, it seems to me that, even in some ways with my colleague Jurjevic, that's why I called, and other colleagues, we seem to be focusing on the wrong question to put it that way in the debate. I have a very different view of it than my colleague Mlinarić, for example. But I absolutely recognize his right to defend his position as I suppose he recognizes my right to defend my position, but I don't think this is about attitude towards homosexualism. We can have different attitudes about it. It's about the attitude of the state and the attitude towards the state. So if something is not a crime, then we can have different attitudes about it and agree or disagree on it, but the state can't have an attitude whether it's good or bad, whether it allows or forbids it. The state must create conditions in which there is a right to freedom of personal choice. We are here talking about how much we will allow the state to enter the private sphere, into our personal sphere of choice in private life. And if we allow it to enter the private sphere that way, then the state becomes potentially dangerous whatever it is, it's known from the beginning and the beginning of the state, and I warn you that we're not so far back in that we wouldn't understand it, since Professor Mirjan Denmark is 64, who is today a criminal law professor at Yale, that in 64, he wrote a text on the problems of the homophobic state of non-individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59737	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59738	Dear Mr. President, an esteemed colleague violated Article 209 of the Replica Institute because of her replication of counterpart Peji Trčević, and the opening exhibition was held by a colleague, Jurjevic, then broke it again because he said he was allowing a second opinion, she did not say so. According to this, she can't replicate in the replica Peja Trgovević, who's replicated the same thing as Jurovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59739	Well, she's replicated Agent Jurovic. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59740	Well, I'd like to say that each Parliament, as well as our own, is entitled to discuss each subject with arguments, that everyone is making his arguments. But it's bad when a certain group of people, a certain minority, about their rights, about their fundamental human rights, about how they will live and what sexual orientation they will support, that we talk about these rights with labels, with insults, with disdain. The thing is, it's even more difficult because there's a lot of intolerance from this room last night and this morning. That might not be, at least when it comes to my point of view, it wouldn't be so hard not to go from five HDZ doctors, one of whom was speaking a very unacceptable language. So it's about people who are highly educated, people who are educated as humanists, and it's unacceptable that one doctor here yesterday says it's not about homosexuals, it's about gays. I'm interested in whether a colleague or Mr. Turic comes to him with a different sexual orientation as a sick person, whether he looks at him in his office as a man who needs medical help or looks at him as a faggot. I'm interested in the question of that answer. After his statement yesterday. I was equally concerned that Mr. Mlinarić, who is also a doctor, could declare here yesterday a bunch of thesis which he later said were not a fruit of ignorance, so it's so much harder and so much worse. He can say, for example, the next sentence. I will quote it from the phonogram: "Recent discoveries in the field of artificial insemination have severe lacks of respect for human dignity." That's terrible, Mr. Mlinarich. A medically assisted fertilization in this country in the last 20 years has been born 15 thousand children. In a country that has a problem with birthright. It is one small or mediocre town in Croatia. That you for that kind of...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59741	My fellow Menace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59742	...you're saying it's just something that's...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59743	Comrade Opacic, please stop. Comrade Opacic, please stop. To give a critical opinion on the value courts and the views of the representatives certainly falls under parliamentary practice. But the treatment of statements and of MPs like yours who you insult and degrade, their views, such as in the case of MP Mlinarić, are declared in a way that disqualifies the terrible, I don't know which, is the demeaning of the MPs. Any representative may and should speak critically about the positions and the valuable courts of other representatives, but they cannot be belittled, ridiculed and insulted by their worldview and their views. Therefore, I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and do not qualify for MPs with disrespect. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59744	... The criteria have been present for a long time in running... [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59745	Madam Representative, you, by the law of the Rules of Procedure, cannot explain yourself to me. You should be aware of that. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59746	And in my speech, I didn't disrespect anyone. I was quoting here that Mr. Mlinarić said yesterday and I only said the fact that it was strange for a doctor to say something like this about the medically assisted fertilisation procedure that was obtained and born so far in this country, so 15 thousand children. I said it, you can interpret it as disdaining the MPs, but that's what Mr. Mlinarić said and I quoted it from the phonogram. So I didn't insinuate anything, I didn't make anything up, I simply quoted what he said. It would be good if only in this debate we had one approach in which we would say that there are some things we can accept in this Law, some things we can't do. I will, for example, say that in this law, it is a completely unacceptable part of me and I am glad that my colleague Lucin said that this part is withdrawn from the law, and it is about the possibility, therefore, that homosexual couples can adopt children or that they can take them, I don't know, adopt... Okay, this is where the adoption was talked about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, here, if that's what this is about, I'm absolutely against it for one reason only. Because these kids are so highly traumatized. Putting in such a family would, in fact, cause additional trauma to such children in Croatian society, make life more difficult for them, and I think it is, therefore, totally unnecessary from the aspect of child protection and children's rights. And in the end, I see no reason to oppose giving rights to people who, as it says, are modern professional literature, with their behavior falling away from the usual. So there is no reason, therefore, not to give them any rights, primarily because these rights do not endanger my rights or your rights. People have the right to live as they please. Indeed, until their rights threaten mine, I have no reason not to raise my hand, therefore, to those rights. With this fence, I wouldn't accept this part of the Law, and I'm glad my colleague Lucin finally pulled that part of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59747	My colleagues and colleagues. In the past, in the debate of the past day, I have urged that MPs and MPs keep their tolerances to respect other people's opinions, attitudes and values no matter how much they disagree with them. But expressions came where they were used and condemned the steps of individual MPs by calling on them to propagate the ideas of the racist theory of Alfred Rosenberg. So, one national socialist theorist. ... And yes, that's right, calling for tolerance, and we don't stick to a lot of tolerance ourselves. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59748	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Opačić, stated in her quote that five MPs, HDZ doctor, I don't know, were intolerant, spoke this-that, etc. So, I'd beat that statement of hers. So, we didn't speak intolerantly, we didn't speak unfounded, and I don't see any reason for that kind of yours, your assessment. After all, you yourself agreed to part of our position when we said it was not good to, I don't know, adopt children in such families, etc., etc. Therefore, I must point out that you have cited an incorrect assumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59749	Next respected representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59750	Your Honor, Mr. President. It is an incorrect allegation and a misread quote of my sentence to read because I have written a possible resort to the means at their disposal that have made recent discoveries in the field of artificial insemination difficult to respect for human dignity because of disrespect for the child's right to grow up in the family. I wasn't talking about medically assisted insemination in married couples where a woman can't conceive because they're blocked tubes, it's normal and it's respected, but if a child was conceived in the same sex community then it's not medically helped to fertilize because what the mother will say to that child's father is whether it's human dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59751	And the third correction, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59752	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct the quote of a colleague who says we're opposing their rights. We do not oppose their rights at all, as we have already said on many occasions, but I cannot achieve those rights through the Family Law, but I have said that the prescribed Family Law is also analyzing the notion of marriage and the concept of family.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59753	Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić Okay. [[I'm giving up.]] Dear Representative Slaven Letica For discussion. ... [[Intruder: Opposite.]] Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59754	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Mr. President, honourable MPs. Again at the beginning of the debate, I declare that there is no trace of homophobia or any fear or ignorance of heterosexual or homosexual persons. On the contrary, I accept them and respect them, and I have no discrimination against them at all. Unfortunately, the proposal for this Law on the Registered Partnership proposes to identify the two institutions, marriages and families on the one hand and the same-sex communities on the other. Failure to accept this proposal is neither homophobia nor discrimination against homosexuals for many reasons. Marriage and family as institutions and legal categories and as primary cells are under a human society that thanks to its existence and survival, cannot in any way be identified with a male or female same-sex community, neither biologically nor anthropologically nor socially or psychologically. There are, therefore, a number of scientifically proven arguments. So respected colleagues and colleagues, if marriage and family are not and cannot be the same and identical and same-sex communities to seek the same rights that the Family Law which gives marriage and family to the same-sex community is at least unequivocal because it redefines the institution of marriage and family as the fundamental cells of human society. It is incorrect to ask that same-sex communities be raised to a pedestal of marriage and a family that are for these reasons under the special protection of the state. I am glad that the legislators withdrew Article 24 because they understood what it meant for children when they grew up without a father or mother, when they lost their father or mother or by natural causes or by abandoning or divorce. What kind of trauma does it represent for a child or what trauma it represents for a child when he has to go to school in front of his, with those he's playing with, I don't have a father or I don't have a mother, I don't know where they are? These are painful experiences, these are painful exceptions that we would like here by this Law which is fortunate that it was withdrawn to rise and legalize. So we can't accept it, we can't accept having a child grow up outside of marriage because it's proven that marriage and family are the most suitable for the development, psychophysical development of a child. Such suggestions lead us to a moral relativism that is the rights of adults who can either marry or live in a heterosexual extramarital community or live in a same-sex community. So the rights of adults are greater and stronger than the rights of children, for which a safe and proven best environment is a healthy family. The existing legislation also guarantees both heterosexual and homosexual persons the right to marry or the right to a same-sex community. This Regulation shall enter into The law on same-sex communities regulates that additional contracts can also regulate all material rights. Dear gentlemen, identifying personal freedoms and declaring minorities that personal freedoms are at stake, we all have the same freedoms, or we can get married or live in a heterosexual extramarital community or gay community, these personal freedoms are not endangered. Here he just wants to be given up to a pedestal same-sex community as that, which is a heterosexual community, which is a marriage to which the state gives special attention. So there's no homophobia, we all want to have the same rights as people, but here are the real community, the rights of the family and the rights of the same-sex community that can't be the same because they're not the same and because of it, and not because of homophobia or because of fear or for any other reason we're against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59755	Thank you. Four replicas. Honorable representative Davorko Vidovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59756	Well, I remember the debate we had about the Law on Same-Sex Communities and Family Law. Then it was said just don't let that thing be mentioned in the Family Law and everything else will be acceptable. Now, when we have a bill of one law which precisely in its analytical section is referred not to the Family Act although it certainly draws up certain parallels but refers to the Law on the execution of a prison sentence and points to a discriminatory procedure in relation to this partnership and this community, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Health Insurance, the Law on Health Insurance, Pension Insurance, Social Care, Mandatory Relations, the Law on Income Tax, the Law on Property and other Real Rights, etc., that I do not specify everything else, clearly points to the discriminatory position and role of people of a particular sexual orientation. My colleague Pusic warned about the scale of things. Let's not put our values and courts on homosexualism, homosexuals, same-sex communities into something that doesn't really matter here. Let's abstract that. This is about the country's relationship to one group of its citizens who are by no means excess, not a minority of the type that fellow Kovacevic here says pedophile or I don't know what he mentioned here but it's about normal citizens of this country according to all the criteria in the world that apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59757	Reply to the replica, respected representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59758	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor! You don't want to understand the essence of the problem again. None of us are against the right of homosexuals to exercise any rights just in such a way that the family law and family and marriage that are under special protection of the state is equal to the same-sex community, which is exactly what you wanted to do with this law. That's why we're against it. Expand the Law on Same-Sex Communities, add the rights you think, I believe that it will be easier to agree on than to rewrite Family Law and to equalize family and marriage with the same-sex community.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59759	The next replica is the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59760	Mr. President! Comrade Mlinarich, I support you in your debate because you point to something that is not harmless. The identification of marriages and families with same-sex communities for society, I'm talking about Croatian society, is very dangerous. He owes his survival to a family based on marriage. It was heard yesterday and today how many times the definition of the family was diminished, they have the right to do so, and even it was said that the family was a group. Well, we often talk about different laws these days, so it was heard, there is a flock of birds, there is a pack of wolves, but the family is contained in something that Croatian laws are about, the Croatian Constitution is set in one special place and Croatian people with their tradition and their culture know it and preserve it, so God has blessed him man and woman, blessed him with the words, "Be fruitful, reproduce and create the future of every nation." Among all these peoples is the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59761	Next replica, respected representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59762	Thank you. I would like to remind Mr. Mlinarić that there are not only families in this country consisting of husband, wife, children and pets. There are also single - parent families that live healthy, in which children have security and love and will grow up to be quality human beings. I think marriage at all costs and we know that there are lovers, same-sex partners, abuse is not the happiest solution for such children. And when we talk about same-sex communities, even if what you're saying is exactly what you're saying is that you're trying to equalize marriage with same-sex communities, I don't see it given the percentage of these people so that this could endanger the institution of heterosexual marriage. If they're so much of a danger, then those marriages aren't really God-awful what they're worth much of. It is only that one particular group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia gets all the rights that we want for ourselves. The equality of all of us is a constitutional category. So let's let them consume one of their rights. You say it's regulated by the Law on Same-Sex Communities, but we all know very well how laws are implemented in this country even when they're good. And excess rights cannot harm anyone especially in a situation where these rights do not endanger the rights of the majority which in no case can be true. They're small, they're different, they're neither better nor worse than us, and we don't have the right to punish them just because they're different.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59763	Reply to the replica, respected representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59764	Yes, there are only families with one partner. However, there are no families where two of the same sex partners and a child. That's a big difference. There's a mother and a family and there's a father who's had a child since a divorced marriage. That's a big difference. Having two fathers or two mothers. What's that kid gonna tell him when he gets to school? Who's that, his aunt or his uncle?- I'm sorry. Think about what it is for that child, no one is looking back here at the rights of the child. No one thinks of a child as what it represents for a child when he has to show up at school or anywhere else and tell them who this uncle is. Think about the rights of the child and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and you won't talk like that. Of course, same-sex communities can't compromise marriage, but they can relativize the institution of marriage. First, two men will be married to a mother, and then you propose another male and female, etc. They relativize the value of a marriage that is under special protection of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59765	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59766	Thank you very much. Col. Mlinarić, you say that the existing legislation allows the freedom of persons to enter the same-sex community. All right. However, I repeat what I said in my debate. This isn't about the right entry into the community. People in the community can live without formal paper. This is about achieving those fundamental rights that also have people living in a heterosexual community or marriage. For example, in the exercise of the right to inheritance, health insurance, pension insurance, etc., that this minority gets at least one of those rights that people in heterosexual... /The speech room is excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59767	Reply to the replica, respected representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59768	Write, extend the Law on Equal Communities and do not prescribe Family Law, and then we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59769	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59770	Yes, of course. Unlike many, I find this debate very patient even when viewed internationally in parallel and when viewed historically and in parallel. How much until yesterday was talked about the topic of not opening the lock with a lock, as Adam and Eve were not Adam and Stevan. So there were really homophobic statements. I'm glad that one big step has been made, and I'm particularly glad that people who want to be lobbyists of different social movements appear in this House. As a conscious homosexual, transsexual, transgender community found in Shimi Lucino and Eve Banac its lobbyist would be correct than that community if with far more responsibility such people proposed laws so that no kind of collective mobbing would be conducted in this House. So we put ourselves in a position to conflict over fundamental values because there are a lot of communities that haven't even regained their minority position. For example, you have concubines, permanent mistresses discovered today in Japan through geisha, and they are the reality of Croatian society. 4.5% of such women who live their whole lives as concubines, lovers of marriages, and this has often entered into these relationships at younger age and have no rights guaranteed. They don't choose him, and they can't come up with their own position. So when it comes to this law, what is the purpose of this law? I would like to believe that in good faith the lobbyists Mr. Ivo Banac and Shime Lucin accepted this bill that someone else wrote, but unfortunately it was some kind of provocation and even a prank. What the circumstances indicate, though, that after listening carefully to this debate, they decided to modify several articles of the law, and they would do more if they knew that the effect of our debate was profitable for some of the leaders of these homosexual communities. What's this about? Look. Whenever there's a debate on topics like this debate. It concerns the deepest human essence. The discussion of sex, the extension of species, of faith, of Old Testament and New Testament, of understanding of justice and solidarity, of human compassion, of marriage, of our collective anxiety. Today, we have an ever - increasing social community that, for example, calls itself different in different countries. In French they're called nesters, in Italy they're called mama's sons, and I called them a generation of nights. These are our children who are often in one segment and asexual. They don't think about getting married at all. Their sexual needs are quite frustrated for a number of objective reasons. One of those objective reasons is fear of AIDS. So when it comes to this subject, there should be an international comparative analysis that I've done to prove myself the thesis that this is really about planting. Namely an institution called a registered partnership here, a colleague will Banac understand it well, called in the west different: "registered partnership, civil union, cohabitation partnership or cohabitation union, domestic partnership,... Sex Union and finally "... [[You don't understand what I'm saying.]] "Sex Marridge." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it were translated into a registered partnership with us, it would be a certified partnership. When it comes to a registered partnership, it seems to me that something is involved in Euroherc and Croatia Insurance. It's like registering motor vehicles. First of all, it's one... Badly painted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's about civil communities, domestic partnerships, same-sex communities. Croatia has come up with the concept of a same-sex community. It was invented by the old government and made fantastically. The law is also short to make a proposal for an amendment and even the title of the law. So there could be a law on same-sex and other co-existences. Then it could have been of 3 now-instituted rights, which is the right to inheritance, the right to support and the right to restraint could have even been done by polling. That was said by our highest representative in this House of the Highs, colleague of Arabovic. There are about 80% of the things we agree on. So we are, and I personally think that we should add health insurance rights, rights to criminal and criminal law that a man with a man or woman with a woman or a person lives in one way or another that can be called upon to the privilege of not testifying. There could have been different other rights. But this is about conscious provocation. I'm sorry when someone takes the Family Law and takes it into account that people have different beliefs, you know that the situation is reversed, and then they want to say, "You're behind us." So it's pointing to this side. And who can tell Jagoda Martinčević and me that we are behind us when we have read with more intellectual rights, partouts and books with gays, transsexuals and different people than Shime Luchin has seen them in life. So when he's trying to explain it to some homophobia, I'm sorry, gentlemen, that's not at all what this is about. So if there's anything he wants to say, I'll tell you what it's possible to do. When it comes to same-sex marriages, they are now legalized in the Netherlands in 2001, Belgium in 2003, Canada in 2005, Spain in 2005 and Great Britain in 2006. When it comes to civil communities of a different type called certified partnership or registered partnership here, they are institutionalised in Denmark, France, Iceland, Germany, Norway and Sweden. So our 2003 law, there I think it was in July, provided for 3 rights: the right to maintenance, the right to property and inheritance and the right to help. Latently they are acceptable rights, but not to dismiss this law, and that is where the government has done very wisely. Although she wrote a theoretical inferior explanation. Because few people know anything about it. And the promoters, too, and so do I. It is possible to accept the right to health insurance, the right to refuse testimony in a court and related rights under criminal law, the right to acquire citizenship of non-nationals registered in such an institution and pension rights. What cannot be accepted is not accepted practically in any European country, it is the right to adopt children, to artificial insemination, to partially foster children and to church weddings. Therefore, gentlemen, if we want to discuss sex, about love, there has been insinuation here and on sexual potential, then we can talk very seriously about it. We must say in this high house, by the law of probability, there are 3 to 4 such men or women. We have this problem that I've been talking about, which I'd like him to come to because he's deeply traumatized and I know the questions of these concubines, the lasting mistresses, that they both encourage and publicly talk because their human rights are essentially threatened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59771	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59772	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Professor Letica, I would only ask you to explain to me when you told the community a man with a man, what you meant by that, maybe I didn't listen carefully enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59773	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59774	Slow and co-existence or habitual pluralism is very heterogeneous and I took it as a generic concept of these different heterogeneities. So, we're always thinking more about homosexuals, even if in that sense, I've been and since I'm friendly with people in that world, I wanted to say that they make... to make a Croatian dictionary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because different shrubs, homosexuals, etc. We could get Croatian versions, and we'd understand each other more easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59775	Proposer representative, respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59776	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, since we're about to end, so here's what I'm gonna say. I'm gonna do my part of the job. From what I understand, two things were somehow dominated as problematic. So in one part of the first thing is that most of these rights that are spoken of in this law are consummated, and now that you make one intersection, you'll see that in the law of the same-sex communities, it's just two rights. On the other hand, so, actually, from the same bench comes the same story. So, some say the rights are consummated, and then others say they are for those rights. Well, if the rights are consummated by it then there's nothing important about those rights, because they already exist. I stress, it's just two rights. In fact, family law is often mentioned. A fellow Letica mentions it the same way. No, it's not about family law. It is simply that it is about the rights mentioned in the Family Law, that part of these rights is passed on to same-sex communities, or if we have shown, you have a chart if you have looked at the law, that only 40 and some percent of these rights can be used in extramarital and same-sex communities. So it's not about this law, and it clearly says there, ladies and gentlemen, that marriage and the function of marriage are underestimating. So Mr. Mlinarić and a large part of you were actually talking about children as the basis and basis of marriage. Now, we pulled the whole story, the whole story actually about the kids in that law, and actually what you said about kids being the foundation of family and that's why this story can't be supported. Now it's gone. Now, you see, is this the kind of law dilemma or the other kind of law? I'm glad HDZ evolved. Why? Because when she was at the hearing, when she was at the hearing of the Law on Same-Sex Communities, I think she, I don't know who was talking on behalf of the club, but it was clearly said that HDZ couldn't support that law. If the issue is that the proposed law in several complexes has taken over the rights, be careful, it's about the rights, but you can overwrite them from any law. In this case, they're family law. If they are, if that's controversial, then we don't really have a problem. No problem will be that we are actually very soon to you, if this law does not go into another reading, and I see no reason not to go to another reading actually send the Law of Same-Sex Communities to the bench where in a different way all these rights contained in this law will be defined. There's a third solution. We can take about 15 or 20, let's say the basic laws and one article in those laws actually solve the discrimination that exists. I think we can agree on that. Now, you often hear the next thing. Around Europe. So it's said, there's no colleague Caparin, I have to say, and that's what you're, too, as well as being said that the rights are consummated are not. I have that paper on your bench, a cross-section of both Croatian legislation, the current and what would change with this. You also have a cross-section, I have a cross-section of European legislation on this subject and Croatian. Let me tell you. 17 European countries, and we want to be in that Europe, have a standard above Croatia. The rest of the countries are somewhere at Croatia's level. For your information, last night in the Czech Parliament, a law on the same-sex partnership was passed. Now, why did the Czech Republic enter the European Union why did it adopt that law? Maybe, okay, maybe it's not a condition, maybe it's not a condition of this kind of law. But it's certainly a condition of human rights and human dignity. You see, we can be angry at what is said here, in one way or another, not to mention homophobicity, mentioned these or those expressions. But ladies and gentlemen, the problem remains. The problem remains that one group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia has been discriminated against. Someone said how many there were, you didn't simulate. Why would they even simulate? Does anyone suspect they exist? Look, somebody tell me the exact number of national members of the national minority in Croatia. You don't even have that information. You don't. So if we have something that is a minority, which is a minority, a minority, why not give them rights? I don't see what we should be afraid of. I would thank everyone for the debate and express my belief that this law will still go to another reading. Well, if we don't fix it, here it is, then we can't adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59777	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59778	My colleague Lucin doesn't need to know it's a classic plagiarism, but that's what Dr. Ivan Banac would have to know. The plagiarism is defined as four of the same words in a series at least in most of America's contracts, it's literally regulation. And Simi Lucino is not clear, and what minorities are convincingly proven by the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59779	Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59780	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Lucin said that our discussions showed that children were actually the basis of family. Wrong. Wrong conclusion, and you've been listening wrong. Family with children is the foundation of society, is the foundation of society because only through families and children can be extended species. My dear, between a man and a man can't be done, there's no way. That's why I'm telling you that the wrong premise is about to start. It came from the wrong premise, which is that you put a sign of equality between the family and the same-sex community, and it can't be biologically or in any other way. You signed the Family Law, you just changed your wife and bride with your partner, you copied everything else. And the question is a country whose family is of special interest, whether it is under the same special interest and the same-sex community has yet to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59781	Thank you. Now we're going to five minutes of club debates. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59782	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief. The Croatian party's right club will not support this bill, we even think that the appearance of this bill at this point the promoters have made essentially a bear service to same-sex communities in Croatia. Croatia has made the necessary step to prevent discrimination against same-sex communities by adopting the Law on Same-Sex Communities in 2003. Whether Croatia will pass a law in the form of five, ten, fifteen years from now, I don't know or will talk about it, but I believe that the existing law is a big step, let's take the issue of Serbia-Montenegro, let's take Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania and other countries, and you will see how much more difficult the situation is. And you should know, on the other hand, that a number of these issues contained in this law, other than one small one, can be solved by existing legal institutes in Croatia whether it is an inheritance or a variety of contracts. So a very small part remains and I think you really did bear service to same-sex communities when you gave this law at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59783	Thank you. Honorable representative Ante Markov, club representative of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59784	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Simplifiedly speaking, this law could also bear the name of the law on marriage of persons of the same sex. This law will not and cannot be supported by the Club of Representatives of the HSS for the following reasons. For us marriage is a legally arranged community of life for men and women, it is a natural goal of love for men and women, and the achievement of that goal is the beginning of life by the least social community called family. Family is an environment where the first smile is born out of love and love, first experiences and knowledge of moral value are gained in the family. The family is formed by a man who, in association with another, makes up a community called the State. It is therefore perfectly logical that there is no healthy and stable state community without a family in which the first experiences will stand out on the principles of general moral law, and natural moral law is given to a man by reasonable nature as a law of freedom, though not as natural miraculous ideas but as a reasonable power and as a law of free action which we can come to know by reason from the battle of man and the world. We belong to a culture and civilization that through centuries and thousands of years promotes the same moral and social values. We belong to a civilization based on Christianity and the moral values that come from it. For this worldly marriage is dedicated to the community of life of women and men, this unity of persons of different sex united through the institution of marriage is not imposed on society but has been chosen in freedom for thousands of years as an ideal and goal of love for men and women. It is true that some EU countries deviate from the traditional concept of marriage and the legislation of same-sex marriages, but some countries such as Sweden is leaving liberal options and returning to families as a basis for a healthy society. Some countries are governed by the right of persons of homosexual orientation in the context of a ban on discrimination. Such a law would be acceptable to us in the HSS because we oppose any discrimination, and in this proposal, the legislators want to convince us that we, too, have a legally regulated right to marriage, have a discriminatory feature. However, the arguments that want to convince us are weak and transparent because it is not the right of the community, it is the right of individuals to accept a marriage community under certain conditions. Such a community is available to all women and men regardless of whether they are rich or poor, believers or unbelievers regardless of religion, language and nationality. The only condition is that people are different sexes and are able to reason. It is the right of national legislation to just determine what is to be considered an ideal. This was done with full respect for the culture and civilization that we belong to and tradition created and maintained for centuries. With the great respect that every human being deserves, we believe that the legalization of marriage, regardless of what it was called, would indirectly bring uncertainty to the tradition of a confirmed natural community, marriage and family where every society rests. Our opposition to this attempt to legislate the imitations of marriage cannot and must not be interpreted by the condemnation of persons who do not attract the opposite sex. The lack of openness and debate on this subject creates the atmosphere of all those who think differently from some president of the association. It made it possible to create opinions about them that were generally taken unfairly, tabooting is particularly harmful for those who directly or indirectly perform it. The achievement of the ambition will not be achieved by legalising the imitats of marriage, which is called a registered partnership under this bill. A man’s sex can only find his natural achievement in another sex. The size of each life consists of giving and receiving, we do not get carried away by the illusion that the community of the same sex is gone and that there will be none, there are and there will be them. Their relations can be governed by various legal instruments without valuable equalization of their own communities with marriage as a community of women and men's lives. Next to the said HSS club, they won't support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59785	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59786	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We've been discussing minority rights in this assembly for two days. First of all, national minorities, and then a minority who is a minority, given their sexual orientation. Unfortunately, the fate of these two types of minorities has often connected history in a tragic form. Totalitarian, anti-democratic, political systems have not suffered those who are other and different, especially if they were in the minority. Ideology 3. In her creepy monster program, Reich had the extermination of Jews and homosexuals. Animosity towards minorities is a characteristic of all non-democratic retrograde systems. This is also reflected in the individual’s personal attitudes. When the first Croatian President Franjo Tumdjan said his famous sentence: "Thank God my wife is neither Serbian nor Jewish." He clearly and unequivocally expressed his attitude towards these two minority communities in Croatia. This is the legacy of Dr. Tudjman, the impatience towards a minority group represented by about 10% of the population in the population is also present in this Assembly. There's been a lot of noise. When homosexuals are called a minority, and they are because they are then MP Pero Kovacevic says they are a minority in society and paedophiles, rapists and murderers. The insults were made by others...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59787	Mr. Trailer, stop in one moment. I warn you that with expressions and grades, by linking racist, Nazi theories and theorists and criminals who promoted and who, who gave an idea to racist crimes of national socialism and fascism, did not connect in a hidden way the condemnation of the position and the world's representatives and MPs who disagree with this bill. You in a hidden way, but very clear and precise, thus demeaning and insulting MPs who have a different valuable position in court, and I ask you not to challenge because you see what all possible reactions and reports of MPs have been made for violations of the Rules of Procedure, in order to correct incorrect allegations. Because with this style and this way you have demeaned and insulted in an indirect way the representatives who have a different view and in some ways have been worth identifying with the views of racist theorists. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59788	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see there's a light on, which means you've been wasting your time with your speech... to put out the SDP Club's views, so please let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59789	You make up for your time, but stick to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59790	The insult was different. Homosexuals here were called patients, fellow Mlinarić is loathsome even if the registered partnership is being realized in the same hall where marriage is being realized, so heterosexual marriages. This isn't about our individual relationship to homosexuality. It's not even about whether or not people of homosexual orientation are going to realize the community of life because they want to. If he wants to. They don't need this one or any other law. This is only about giving that community life legitimacy. And who's he bothering? Who's he threatening? Our heterosexuals? No, I don't. Defendors, like you heard here? No, I don't. The height of the Homeland War? No, no one. He's the only one who's jeopardizing the world's parliamentary majority. The right to a worldview is also right, but when this worldview is such that most prevent the minority from giving someone the right he has, which he himself enjoys, then this world-wide view is homophobic. So you can't say I'm not a racist, but those rights that white people have don't give to black people. You can't say I'm not a chauvinist, but those rights that Croats have don't give to Serbs or Jews. He can't say I'm not a homophobe either, but I'm not really into some straight-up heterosexuals enjoying homosexuals. This is a question of relations to a minority group. This is a question of whether most and minorities must be evened in their rights. There's a lot of responsibility for that. There is no doubt about the SDP there, which is why it supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59791	Thank you again, with the observation that if those who do not accept the proposal of this Law are by argument a contrast of racists. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59792	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Stazic, said Tudjman was happy that his wife was not a Serbian or Jewish woman from a racial point of view. It's completely incorrect, completely incorrect. An intellectual Jew, Tudjman’s friend witnessed to me personally, and I can even mention his name. At this point, if you're interested, I don't want to, that's what Tudjman said in the context that you were a politician in Yugoslavia, you needed to be a Serbian woman to be successful. And like, right now, on the international level, given the successes and strengths of the Jewish lobby Jew. So he said he didn't need it, so he didn't have those sources of power but had a source of power for nationality as such. Thus, in this context Tudjman said so and did not say anything at all about Jews or Serbs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59793	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59794	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Stazic's false, incorrect quote because I didn't say what he said. I've corrected Mr. Lucin on his dangerous claim and the thesis that all minorities should be protected. Then I said that minorities and paedophiles were minorities and murderers. Is that what he means, to watch what he says? And you listen another time and don't insult me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59795	Third correction by the respected representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59796	Mr. President, my colleague Stazic spoke for five minutes, and I don't have that much time to correct all his inaccuracies that he said in five minutes because I only have one minute. He said counterpart Bagaric, a statement that you often repeat, that President Tudjman said "I am happy that my wife is not Jewish", has been denied several times. I don't have an interview today in which he said he didn't say it, but talking like you can't do it. However, you yourself said that in this country we must and I appeal to the Constitution of Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that they are all equal before the law, and they cannot be more equal, and neither are those for whom you advocate their rights but you used for one electoral right, you brought people here for two days and you disrespect them in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59797	Dear Representative Maria Byte, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59798	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Speaking in a series of incorrect allegations, the respected representative Stazic on totalitarian regimes, about impatience towards the minority population at the time of Dr. I'd like to correct Dr. Tudjman at the time. Tudjman's creation of the Croatian State has been adopted by the Croatian Constitution in which Article 22 states about personal and political freedoms and rights of citizens says that man's freedom and personality is inviolable and that no one is to be deprived or restricted to freedom, and also in the Croatian legislation in the Family Law and the Law and same-sex communities are fully governed by the rights of man to marry, to live in a heterogeneous extramarital community or to live in a same-sex community, and by listening here to tolerance we are witnessing in these two days of intolerance, non-democracy and spread intolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59799	Dear representative Bozica Šolić, the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59800	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Stazic, in his speech, has so many insults here to representatives who are second-guests, but he has also spoken false claims that it was called homosexuals with patients here. Mr. Stazic, I've been doing it all along and I haven't heard it last night and today, but I'm going to tell you that being against homosexual marriage doesn't really mean any discrimination, but such communities are harmful to the proper development of human society and it must be clear to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59801	Next correction, Honored Representative Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59802	A colleague said this law will not be passed because it threatens the world's parliamentary majority. No, we keep this law based on the arguments that we made in our debate unacceptable, but not only because of the world's horizon, but not only the parliamentary majority but also the parliamentary opposition which has clearly declared itself under this Act, including the Croatian party of rights, the Croatian Peasant Party and IDS and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59803	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59804	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think his statements were offended by the first Croatian president, Dr. Franju Tudjman and the Croatian Democratic Community say the law threatens the world's parliamentary majority. It is well known what the parliamentary majority thinks, and this law does not endanger the world view of the parliamentary majority, sir, this law endangers family law, endangers family, the concept of family, and endangers those children, 16-year-old children whom you are giving this law the right to enter into registered so-called. partnership. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59805	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59806	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Tie me up, compare IDS with some racists because we won't support this law at least insults me, Mr. Stazic. I also think that I have done more for minorities than many in this assembly, whether it is Serbs, Muslims, or JNA officers when they were in '92. innocents trying to move out of apartments, etc., but I don't want to talk about it. Second, it means saying different now. Mr. Banac, Mr. Lucin thinks this legislative proposal helps the same-sex communities in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, they're not helping. They draw attention to them in an extremely negative sense under the mask of care for the dissuaded minority. Mr. Letica spoke of provocation. I didn't dare mention the term like that yesterday, but it's probably not far from the truth. We're all here in this assembly that anyone on any basis is being mistreated, harassed, threatened, discriminated against, slowed down, labelled or discredited in any way, but God, I'm categorically against it, let's say they adopt children or allow that marriage at the age of 16. We're breaking down in some way the community we belong to, in a way we're questioning everything. Now, if it's freedom for minorities, if it's freedom for the majority, let's leave it to someone else, but what I do in their performance is often arrogant simply offends everyone who doesn't thinks they do. Did I also say yesterday about this speaker that they must have all the rights based on the succession of pensions, health insurance, the shortening of those statements regarding criminal proceedings, employment, etc.? I did, but was it wise to write down a provision on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations? No, it's not. Could the former majority in this assembly have made it through this law? She couldn't. Maybe in five or six years. I assure you, then, that new majority will also not propose such a law that same-sex communities can adopt children. Another thing that really disgusted me when I saw that list of a thousand 500 names where a 26-year-old was born with a 13- or fourteen-year-old. So I'm saying that you should sanction it, it's not to play with it, let's ask the parents of that boy what they think about it, and I'd still love my kid just as much as you said no matter what he's gonna do, but I don't know what I'd do to that 26-year-old kid to play with me and my kid's fate. Oh, it's nothing, it's... It's paedophile, and it's supposed to be punished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I shouldn't do that, but once again, I thought that their media engagement simply turns the community against them in some way, and there's Mr. Letica right because there's no way to pronounce her position as a Parliament speaker or somewhere in the paper simply to file an indictment against that person, and why is that? To draw attention to the community, and that may be as Mr. Letica says and a provocation. It is clear that no one is to be squished, marginalized, discriminated, and it is clear that the day will come when what we have left out will have to be installed around the inheritance, etc. But I'll say it one more time. Not one Denmark, nor any France, nor Iceland, nor Germany, nor Norway, nor Sweden simply knows some institutes that were submitted by Mr Banac and Mr Lucin in their original proposal. And we, no matter what it's done, have given up the de facto of it and we're reading about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59807	Dear Representative Marijan Mlinaric on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59808	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs! Again and again with disgust I refuse. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Every thought that I have a trace of homophobia or any fear or ignorance of homosexuals. On the contrary. I accept them and respect them, and I have no idea that I have any discrimination against them. I'm both a humanist and a doctor, and I understand what that means when a man with a certain problem and certain tendencies that minority lives in a heterosexual world that is majority. I understand, but that's one thing, and what you're proposing with your law is something else, and that's the difference, that's what we're different about. This bill relativises the institution of marriage and family, and the family is under the special protection of the state as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, if all communities were to have real families, then the family would not be under special protection. Special protection of family and marriage does not mean that individuals outside these communities are discriminated against. They have all the rights as Croatian citizens. The personal protection of the family, marriage, signifies stimulating, encouraging family and marriage. It is perfectly normal for the state to stimulate and encourage communities and groups that are important and useful for Croatian society which the family and marriage as the basis of the family certainly are. Experts define family as the main station of society. As the strongest institution we have and in which we owe our humanity... The family is certainly the best educational place and the family depends most on the demographic situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Relativeing the family also means relativating all these and many other values that come from the family. The vote on this bill will show the Croatian public concretely what values politicians or parties promote. Recent research has shown that the vast majority of Croatian citizens in life are the most important family. More important than money, work and any other thing. Croatia is a traditional Central European Mediterranean country according to all relevant research according to its system of values and should be respected. Democratic countries will not pass laws that most of the population refuse or would be opposed to a system of values and customs in that society. The reason is simple. If you pass a law that is contrary to the system of values of the majority, then you need the military and the police to enforce that law, both the military and the police, controlled by some minority and not most. In this case we are already in another system that is not foreseen by the Republic of Croatia and we know it from the recent past. And therefore, we will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59809	Thank you. Proposers respected representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59810	Your Honor, Mr. President, this is it. Many times it has been said by a number of parliamentary deputies that through the Family Law here they want to push through a homosexual marriage. That's not true, of course. But it is true, and that's what I said in my statement last night that we want to apply the legal effect of marriage, and that's really the only thing that can be achieved through an institution that I've called the necessary compensation institute. And if that's a crime, that's exactly what we want to do. But it's not a marriage. It's not a marriage. I've heard incredible claims today often with complaints that this law is actually a kind of ideologies of society. I've heard things that are completely incorrect. I've heard excellent demagogues, but I have to tell you that no matter what you think about this proposal, he's still going to win because it's about rights and she really can't relate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59811	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Thank you. The second part of the conclusion withdrawn. Proposal for a law on registered partnership, first reading. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposed law on registered partnership proposed by the representatives of Sima Lucin and Ivo Banac is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, we can vote. The result? With 76 votes for, 5 abstentions and 22 against, the proposed conclusion was accepted. You should have followed. Comrade Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59813	I just want to get into the record that I voted "against" and that's where the "yes" turned out. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59814	You probably had a gap between your fingers and your thoughts. It was probably a break-up, you probably thought you were voting against, but in accordance with that opinion you did not match your finger. That's probably the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-16-0.u59815	Mr. President, thank you for... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
