ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The final proposal of the Animal Protection Act is before you. We tried to bring this law in line with the debate at first reading and to improve certain provisions. What is certainly this law before us is especially in some segments such as Animal breeding for the purposes of fur production, or e.g. the cabins in the households puts us on one side into a divide between all those highest standards and standards bound to the protection and welfare of animals. On the other hand, the economic and existential interest of our manufacturer and, on the other hand, the intention of the Republic of Croatia to protect its specificities in the coming period as part of its national identity and tradition. These are the doubts that are particularly imposed and strengthened when we have the knowledge that these most standards and that these most norms do not apply all the countries of the European Union or the Western developed world, but only some. In our first law reading, we suggested there was no ban on chinchilla cultivation. However, by holding a debate in the House in this proposal, we have imposed a ban, but it comes into effect after 10 years. We thought it was a particular compromise where on the one hand we wanted to protect our producers, exactly 300 people who lived off this production and who invested and funds, raised loans and specialized in this production. And on the other hand, we wanted to achieve this other interest, so that we are ready to follow certain international trends in animal protection. With regard to cabins in households as the Ministry of Agriculture, we represent the views that Croatia particularly during this pre-accession period and the period of negotiations with the European Union needs as long as possible to protect its indigenous products as part of its national identity, but also protects its specificities and lifestyle in the country. In this context, provisions have been rejected in this proposal for legislation which are subject to additional veterinary duties, the provision of professional personnel and the stunning of those traditions of cabins and households. By maintaining the provisions that no action can be done without pain, suffering, injury, etc. when carrying out the cabins of the sea. As regards the concrete observations made in the debate at the first reading of the law here, we can mention that we are therefore in Article 23 where we are talking about the research and development of ingredients, i.e. the combination of ingredients and finished cosmetic products that we have deleted there unless there are other scientific methods to replace the use of animals. Also in Article 35, where the Committee on Animal Protection and the regulation committee is defined, we also went with representatives of the Medical Faculty. We have also added a new item in the articles governing the keeping of pets where it is said that holding and handling pets and moving them in a way that endangers the health and safety of other animals and people, especially children. We also extended the time limit for keeping animals in shelters from 30 days from first reading to 60 days. I must also say that, at the hearing held on the Committee on Agriculture, an amendment to Article 32 has been proposed to delete paragraph 4 which regulates that the head of the establishment for animals used in experiments and for the production of biological preparations and its replacement must be veterinarians. And here we accept absolutely that this item is deleted, so that other professions, especially those of the most competent, such as livestock, so graduate livestock engineers, etc. So they can do that breeding business, so in animal housing used in experiments. However, here, I would either ask the committee to give another amendment to Article 70 where the same thing is concerned, so it would have to be deleted paragraph 2 or the Government would go with its amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78182	Thank you. The committees? For legislation? Agriculture and forestry, committee president, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry discussed the final proposal of the Animal Protection Act at the 45th session held on 14 November. The board discussed this law as a parent body. Following the opening explanation of the proposing representatives, the Committee supported the adoption of that law in a comprehensive debate involving representatives of the Animal Friends Association and the Croatian Krsnar Association. The representative of the Animal Friends Association pointed out that although the proposal put in place a large part of the association’s observations in the final proposal, some of the provisions remained unarranged and therefore opened up the possibility of different interpretations. This primarily refers to the erasure of a provision which prescribed that the stunning and slaughtering of animals in the household be carried out by qualified persons. At the meeting, representatives of the Croatian Krsnar Association expressed dissatisfaction with the individual solutions set out in the law. They warned that the ban on the production of fur, including the postponement of the application and the provision until 2017, would endanger entrepreneurs and their families who deal with this business existentially, by the fact that they have only the UK and Austria in the European Union. In a further discussion, the board members pointed to some open issues which were not resolved by this law until the end. This draws attention to the fact that entrepreneurs involved in the breeding of fur in the case of the law and the prescribed prohibition of such activities should be properly compensated. The majority of the members of the committee shall keep an unfounded provision of Article 32(4), according to which the head of the establishment for animals and their deputies may only be veterinarians. This team, moreover, is paragraph 1 of the same article, provided that animal experiments can be carried out by persons of other professions. The proposal put forward by the Committee is to submit an amendment to delete paragraph 4 of Article 32. The representative accepted that amendment. It is also held that a questionable provision on the prohibition and holding and use of wild animals themselves in circuses, while the ban does not extend to other animals used in circuses. In the debate, it was also presented that a large number of family farms dealing with livestock keep their cattle on the line and thus keep their musk cows the best results. Where the total livestock production of the animal movement obligation resulting from Article 39(3) is taken into account, the suspension of the application and the delay for male cows by 2012, for some members of the Committee, shall also be highly questionable. The debate also stated that the application of a provision under which animals outside the dwellings must be protected from weather disasters, predators and other dangers is difficult to implement. The law also applies to the keeping of animals in traditional farming not only on farms when in particular the livestock is found on the pasture. On the basis of the implementation of the Committee, he supported the Animal Protection Act, together with the following amendment. The amendment reads: "Article 32(4) is deleted. Articles 5 and 6 so far become paragraphs 4 and 5.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78184	Thank you. The local and regional committee? European integration? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78185	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would start this exhibition on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club with two examples. We have heard these days that a new animal protection party has entered parliament in the Netherlands for the first time in history. On the other hand, also these days, in Croatia an art performance in Klovic's court was slaughtered by a rooster, and one of the consequences was the burning van of Klovic's court and further threat to the terrorist actions of a radical animal defense organisation. We might also be able to bring up last year's big-time affair, and perhaps the outbreak of swine fever this year. What these two examples tell us, first of all from the Netherlands and Klović's court, and there could be more, except that animal protection is in the spotlight today, that it draws more public attention and becomes one of the very important topics of everyday society, and so is politics. So to the widest public who wants to act in different ways, these two examples are of course extreme, but that's why we need this law that is before us to pay full attention because it has to carry the necessary line of humanity, the civilization code, the ethics, and finally the awareness of how important animals are in our lives. One's emotional, the other's economic, the third's market, etc. etc. It should therefore be pointed out that the Final Proposal for the Animal Protection Act is acceptable, in line with the basic civilization norms, but also with the legislation of the European Union in this area, and will therefore also be accepted by the Croatian Democratic Community club. First of all, this final bill is greatly improved compared to the draft and first reading in terms of basic protection, which is one of the ethical imperatives of our time. The law and the theme of this law are very broad. Pets, animals in livestock, animals in ritual, or ritual, animals in circus, animals in zoo, wild animals, breeding animals and much more. Especially should we highlight these articles of the law that we certainly welcome. Article 57(4) states that, that an abandoned and found animal should be kept in asylum for 60 days instead of 30 days as it has been prescribed so far, which can, of course, create a chance of being lost or thrown into the street of animals, which is a very common example, home. Furthermore, when it comes to breeding animals for the sake of fur production, we have now heard from the State Secretary, which Article 4 of point 23 says is prohibited, but Article 72 of that prohibition only takes effect in 2017, that is, far away. But it still gives hope that we will join those civilization countries like Austria and Great Britain for the time being that they forbid it today. In Article 52, which refers to the prohibition of animals used for circuses and other animal plays, paragraph 1 refers to the prohibition of wild animals and their use in the circus, but is not about other animals. In particular, the dogs and horses we warn are also subject to training in which we have the right to doubt and from this side the observation of animal protection societies is understandable. Finally, I guess I'll also say a few words about article 17 that prescribes protection in slaughtering and killing animals held for production. Representatives of the Animal Friends Association warn that an incorrectly deleted provision stipulating that stunning and slaughter in households are carried out by professionals. Perhaps we should consider returning that same provision because it might not have affected the traditional practice of the necklace itself so much, as it could have been heard in public for quite a long time, but would have put the death of animals under control. Especially since we are witnessing these swine fevers recently, which also speaks of the need to strengthen the professional supervision and thus the slaughter of animals held for production, from which only poultry and rabbits are excluded. This article is partly in line with European legislation and will be fully in line with the date of entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, it may be necessary to consider returning that provision before. As regards the Ethics Commission and the Committee on Animal Protection, it should be said that the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community absolutely welcomes the establishment of such bodies simply because their action will make this protection of animals more comprehensive, it will include all the interested structures and veterinary structures, and medical and pharmaceutical biochemical, biological, agronomic professions. And I think that we are going to make this law one step more because a lot of things have been discussed and introduced into this Law in conversations, fruitful conversations with animal friends associations and for the protection of animals which, of course, may not have been their observations fully accepted, but in that part that seemed to improve the law compared to the first reading, it certainly is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78186	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The colleague stated that it would be good for qualified persons to be and, as was stated in the previous part of the Law, to continue to mention it because it helps to keep certain things contained in it. We don't think that's true because qualified people would just be burdened in a certain way by the traditional, I'd say our... About the slaughter because I'm afraid it would pick up the process itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know how this is done in our households, and if we had to have such persons present, if they had been trained, they would, in a certain way, have abolished that tradition that existed so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78188	The club of representatives of HSS, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78189	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Let me take a few sentences regarding this Law. Let me begin by pointing out that this Animal Protection Act is, in any case, a law that regulates one thing, I would say, a very important area of life for all of us and defines certain facts that are particularly important for agriculture, especially for our rural area, i.e. the village. At first, I would like to point out that this is certainly one step towards everything that has been in our animal protection legislation so far, and I would at first make one clear division between the one where pets are spoken of in the law and the other part where domestic animals are raised. As far as this pet part is concerned, I think this law has a number of good suggestions. The law defines certain things and I think we've made a good step here and I think the general public will support it. On the board, when we talked about him and various associations, they gave him all kinds of support. What I want to talk about is certainly the other part that refers to domestic breeding animals where there are, in any case, a lot of details that I would say are reregulated, which I would say go a little beyond our possibilities where the club will also make very concrete remarks. But I'll take my turn. In Article 4, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: There was one big debate on the Committee itself where we heard, I'd say, both of the opposite sides of the breeder that deals with the job to the security guard. I think it should be very clear that in that part and accepting this step where we put ourselves at the very top of those who care about animal protection, here about furskins and where we prohibit this farming, that this transitional year 2017. There is only one principle issue that has been raised in particular in the debate itself, and that is if, by means of a specific legislative proposal, we abolish its economic activity which is the result of this obligation. We believe that there is an obligation that these people should be compensated in a certain way. We had a number of cases where we limited any economic activity, for example, that was the case in fishing, and then we made it very clear that because of some way of overfishing or banning certain tools, we had so-called. Buying out the benefits and sort of depriving those people. So we think that we need to take a step forward, the time period here is defined, but we also think that these people need to start dealing with something else, and I think it's our job here to take care of everyone's economic activity, whatever it is we're limiting it to, we need to allow it to start dealing with some other activity, and that that's how it enables its existence. Article 11 speaks of the protection of animals transport, I must say very riskyly in that part of it completely I would say one novelty in the total of this part where very risky restrictions on the possibility of transporting animals and in paragraph 5 where distance is said not to be from the place of departure to the place of destination more than 65 kilometers. We believe that this is a precritical provision, and we believe that this should be increased to 100 kilometers, given that some circus, given our and relatively good roads for an hour, we do not need to be so riskyly determined, especially for reasons that it is very clear in Article 12, and other provisions say what must be provided for transport, which must be done by certain carriers, that if it means that I would say shorter distances, with such trucks, with such means, it would significantly and expensive transport and would certainly affect the price of food and all that it includes in that section, so we suggest that this mileage from 65 kilometers would increase to 100. There were already words here about the slaughter and the death of animals. We believe that it is a provision that has been put out of force and we do not have here, and it refers to the training of people who should participate in slaughter and household, it is good that it is no longer there, but it is always a question about these certain principled provisions which, for example, I will read Article 19(3): "The slaughter of animals in the household must be carried out without needless application of pain, suffering, injury or fear in accordance with the provisions of this Act." In principle, if we look at it may not be such a provision, but if we were to go into its detailed I would say and implement it sometimes we fear what will happen with such principled provisions, given that certain sanctions are very clearly prescribed, so I will only read to you what this sanction means in the section if we do not adhere to such things as this might mean. This could mean that a fine will punish a natural person from 500 to 5,000 kuna, in which case. This paragraph 3 is not respected and that the slaughter is not carried out in the household without unnecessary application of pain, suffering, injury, fear in accordance with the provisions of this Act. I would say what could happen if someone interpreted it, so we know what the tradition of our cabins is, so just if our pig is whiny, and if it's really unnecessary application, etc., so the neighbor doesn't like it, so he immediately reports it to the inspectors. I'm afraid that maybe we could try to define it a little more clearly so that we don't have such a little bit of weird stuff going on, so God forbid our farmers have to pay some high fines that are very clearly prescribed here. Here we have defined this and the correction relating to the test for working with experimental animals to delete this article, in Article 32(4), where the owners of the farm for animals used in experiments and for the production of biological belongings for... They must be veterinarians, so that they can be doctors, pharmacists and medical biochemists and dentists, agronomists, cattlemen, etc., and I agree that if the Government accepts that this is changing, it seems to me in Article 72. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 70th paragraph 2, I don't think that's questionable, when we're going to propose in this section, I think we can agree on that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Keeping animals used for production purposes. I think that's something that's actually going to cause the most I think to all of us problems in the part where it's called implementation. We have Article 36(1) says this way: "animals can only be held if they can meet their biological needs in a way that does not interfere with their physiological functions and behavior." And now the addition: "And that no demands beyond their ability to adapt are made before them." We consider this extension to be too high in this section because who will assess which animals and who puts before them such demands that outweigh their ability to adapt. I think that some things, we're talking about raising domestic animals, but we're still undefined. Everyone can then again get into this part of the abuse of this so every inspector who comes here will say here you see this animal, are placed before it such conditions that it cannot overcome and you cannot adapt to it etc., I think there is too much indetermination and that this first part is clearly saying what needs to be met by their biological needs in a way that does not interfere with their physiological functions sufficient, physiological functions and behavior, enough that we can erase this sequel. We also have article 37, which is: "The animals must be cared for by a sufficient number of qualified persons or those who possess an equally valuable experience, i.e. knowledge." I think it is sufficient for this article to remain this first part, which is that animals must be cared for by a sufficient number of qualified persons, especially for the reasons that paragraph 2 makes it very clear that the training method set out in paragraph 1 of the article is prescribed by the minister. If it is prescribed by the minister, then the minister will also prescribe in that section that there is no need for special training, but rather sufficient experience, certain knowledge, etc., rather than stating it in this section because it can be incorrectly interpreted. The very questionable point is that natural and legal persons holding animals for the purpose of production must be registered in the same article. No one is slow, we know what our obligations are, they have to be registered, but in the transitional and final provisions of this Act, it is not said anywhere that they must be registered that we have some transitional period because we only have some transitional periods that we have already talked about, which means that, after the entry into force of this Act, these natural and legal persons must be registered. We believe that there must be a transitional period, that we have to set a deadline, because according to the interpretation of this law, definitely 70, 80% of the production of our farms, the facilities would be out of the system because they are not certainly registered. I think we all know that. And our proposal is to put it here in the transitional and final provisions that these farms are all registered, to start immediately from the application of this law. Those who can get it right away should be immediately, but the deadline to be 01.01.2010. So, let's give it three years so that this whole process can be implemented because we know that a farm would be registered, and that's what we talked about last week about some other things, and especially about the Law on cattle farming, certain conditions must be met. Our people must have a building permit number one. You realize it's going to be a long process, which won't even be cheap, so either way, we need to set ourselves here a little longer. A controversial article is certainly Article 39 in which I would say it is now defined that animals must be provided daily for a period during which they will not be tied for the possibility of movement in accordance with their physiological, ethnological needs. Related animals must be able to move and must not be exposed to pain, suffering, injury and fear. I think we drew very clear attention to that when we first read it. It was clear that it was not going to be possible in the villages to provide these cowwalks, that we would not be able to do what was definitely something that would be a little funny. However, in transitional and final provisions, it was said that for male cows this came into force on January 1st 2012. I fear that this deadline is not appropriate in that part and that we must remain in this section in paragraph 2 which clearly states that animals must have available space that is in line with their physiological and ethnological needs. I believe all modern farms are going to a production that is free to grow. So, no more animals on the line. And the part that will remain, in which they will be numbered, I think it would be the first inconclusive regulation that someone who has 15 cows will now lead them every day in the village up and down to walk them. I don't think it can be and that it should be deleted in any case and that this delay until 01.01.2012 is unnecessary, because if it changes in this part, if we go in a different direction then it will definitely be changed. In addition, Article 42 of animals which are temporarily or permanently located outside their homes must be protected from adverse weather conditions, predators and other dangers to their health and well-being where necessary. I mean, the article is nice, wonderful, wonderful. But it's inconclusive, though. We are increasingly heading towards having, for example, in one part of the cow system, a calf that we have grown in the free area as regards both sheep and goats, etc., in a certain part of how will you protect them? We are all aware that in such crops there are certain damages but that it can be protected, that someone must prescribe it I think in this part of it is unnecessary. We also have an article 44 that talks about records and where. It shall be attributed to the owner of the animal to keep records of the treatment of animals and to keep records of the number of animals killed and killed. Of course it's clear that he has to lead it. But we do not feel that this should, as described in Article 2, be kept for 3 years. We believe keeping a year's worth of such records is sufficient. For three years, I think it's unnecessary in that part. It is good that Article 48 has made it very clear about the protection of pets that in paragraph 7 conditions and ways of keeping dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs. We think that what is happening to us and what has affected many people, especially children, these dangerous dogs must surely be made very clear in the law. A question about a circus where wild animals are banned. It's questionable what about domestic animals, can they be? Perhaps I am still in principle bound by these penalties in Article 68 I am not sure that such high penalties should be so prescribed if it is not an obligation under other regulations but I think they could be reduced in this section. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78190	Okay. Thank you. For PGS, SBH, MBS, respected representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78191	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The regional party club will support this legislative proposal. I'm not going to repeat the arguments I already made in the first reading debate here. In short, the law is good but there is a tendency to divorce a series of provisions. And that's where I'm going to say I don't know luck or, unfortunately, the opposite of what my colleague Pankretic was saying. Namely, we go to Article 1, scope. In fact, Article 2 in the field of application. The first point is, "This law applies to all vertebral animals." I think this is not enough because the law would have to apply to all animals that have developed senses of incentive. The pain of course is not a monopoly of the spine, especially when we talk about vertebrates of the kind of man. Point 4 of the same Article 2 reads: "This law does not apply to the management of hunting and game, excluding 1) the breeding and keeping of animals used as aid for hunting and 2) breeding and keeping out of animal hunting for hunting purposes." It's a huge hole in this proposal. Wild animals and domestic animals involved in hunting are excluded. And we know that the hunting grounds in our country are very, very large. We also have an exception to fishing in paragraph 5 of this article. This law does not apply to fishing. You need to ask the question why? The law protects fish at other points but there is no protection in fishing. The law speaks of pig farms. There's no talking about fish farms. I think it should be extended to this area as well. In Article 4, which speaks of prohibited procedures for the purpose of animal protection, we have point 8. where you have the next prohibition. It is forbidden to organise dog races on hard bases. I think this last item should be ejected. I think you should ban dog races on all the bases and that's more and more tendencies in the world. In a wide range of countries, these solutions have been made. I will return to point 23 of this Article 4, so animal breeding for fur production when we talk about application. Article 9 Animal protection at death. A colleague, Pankretic, noted very well that a provision that states that animals in rural households must be killed by an expert with previous stunning. I don't think that's good. I believe that such a provision is contrary to the standards of the European Union, in particular Directive 119 of the European Community. And what we now have in point 5 of the animal can only be executed by a veterinarian or a trained veterinarian under the supervision of veterinarians except in cases, and then we have point 1 of the death of animals that are grown and kept for the purpose of production that this is a very large divorce of the original intensities of this law. In Article 72 of the transitional and final provisions, we have a postponement of the application of a ban on the breeding of animals for the purpose of the production of fur and an incredibly long delay. By 1 January 2017, ten years of delay in which time we will be able to produce or kill, grow and kill chinchillas and other animals used for fur production. You're all or most of you, I assume you've received a letter from the Croatian furry association signed by the president of the association Mr. Vladimir Deskar. I have to say that I have some sympathy for the problem of people who are in that employment industry, as regards various other things that go into the protection of their jobs but have absolutely no sympathy for a whole series of his statements that he actually denies here the most fundamental tendencies in protecting the animals of our time, not anyone but this one of ours. For example, it is not true that the public is on the side of the Croatian furry association because we have various surveys. One that was just carried out in October this year that shows that as many as 52.6% of respondents are not for fur breeding animals. But much more important than that, we have the following specifics in his letters. I quote, "The use of natural fur in the world will not be reduced by banning the breeding of fur animals in Croatia". Perhaps, but of course, we do not want to respect it only in Croatia but in the whole world. Fashion trends, he says, such that natural fur is growing more and more in fashion, prices are on the rise, the market is expanding. I think it's highly questionable. Various animal protection associations have contained a tendency to spread fur, and since there are various alternatives that are in no way inferior there is no reason to believe that this market is expanding and that we have to support something that actually goes in favour of luxury and prestige. As long as the vast majority of consumers are on the side of natural fur lovers, Mr Deskar continues, as shown by buying these products we consider that it is not the time and that Croatia is not even the place where our existence should be preceded in the world. I think it's exactly the place where we can show housing initiatives, especially because this industry is pre-named in the statements of the association that we're talking about. I would add that there are a whole series of other questions that are not covered by this law. We could talk about various points that would have to appear in some better law, such as trying on wild animals from a list of endangered species, trying on primates that I know something about from the experience of some of my colleagues who are just making experiments on primates, which is without a doubt a very painful and ultimately unexcessive procedure. So this law should be strengthened and not done everything to make it as divorceable as possible. And finally, in reference to some of the incidents that have occurred in recent weeks, I think we need as much sensitivity as possible to our citizens that animal protection is one lasting trend where we can certainly show some initiatives. Slaughtering a rooster on stage isn't an extra-garde art, it's simply a pseudoliturgy of death, and I think that's something we all have to judge with our heart by supporting this law even though one better would be more useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78192	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78193	Mr. Banac spoke of this slaughter of the rooster in the museum space as something that is absolutely not a work of art. And that's a partially accurate claim because if you go through that logic and the burning of that van is an art on the trail of the same conceptual art. And if you go through that logic, then the ends of the concepts go to killing people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78194	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78195	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. When a man reads this article 4 it turns out that we are better off or that animals should go better than humans, and when he adds the data we heard when we first read this law that in Velika Gorica, as Mr. Picula told us at dog shelters per day to the dog Velika Gorica spends 60 kuna or per month means about 1800, 1900 kuna. Then it turns out that abandoned dogs are better off than 700 thousand of our pensioners living with less than 1800 kunas per month. What am I saying? When the laws are written, there should be a measure. When writing laws should be known and what is wanted and finally when writing laws should know how our average Croatia lives, what has kept us alive? How does our village live? And I certainly need... What is the law proposed? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, what's good is that the proposal was rejected, I will not be resented by Mr. Banac and the government's first reading, which he defended among other things and pork and even Mr. Banac suggested that the fish could only be fished on a hook. He prescribed stunning and so on. In one word, he prescribed what may be normal for someone living in Manhattan but Croatia is still something else. Well, the Netherlands, which is a traditional livestock country, mentioning here the Dutch MPs, is something else, and which the platform will be represented by this animal party, which, I don't know what it's called, which has entered parliament we'll see. We must know with one word where we come from and the same way that it fed us. We must also know what position the village is in, and how does this village live? Croatian livestock production is almost destroyed. If we want to destroy the few remaining productions in the village, the Croatian Parliament will accept such a law. We had meaning on Friday at the first reading of the Law on cattle production, and there it was mentioned that in 2006 the country had 485 thousand cattle, 273 thousand cows and heifers, only 768 thousand sheep, a million 230 thousand pigs, 9,000 horses, not more than 9,000 horses and not counting feathers and everything else. As far as circuses are concerned, it doesn't interest me too much, even though I don't know how it's possible to imagine a circus without animal dots, but come on if we want it, it's okay. I'm in. For myself, and because the last circus he visited in Buzet let the circus out of their crocodile cages and drowned and then we found them frozen to good luck after seven days. But that's not the point. The point is, what does this law of gentlemen mean for our peasant, and the point is what does this law mean for our village? I've said it many times, and I'll do it again: in this country it's worth it just not doing it. And finally the more you do, the less you have. No one, such a syntax, can be better applied to such a setting than to Croatian peasants. These people literally the more they do, the less they have. And we instead of talking means in the position of large trade chains instead of talking about what is being offered there we simply offer measures and laws that will ruin the village. Article 9, I think, is the point of this Law, meaning animal protection in the event of death, and then paragraph 3 says: "Death can only be carried out if the treatment of animals would be long-term, associated with suffering. If the animal has reached a high age" and so on "contamination of pests" while paragraph 5 says that the death of animals that are grown and kept for production means it is now possible but in the presence of veterinarians or professionally trained veterinarians under the supervision of veterinarians except in cases and now we have these few moments. I think the first respected gentlemen should define that animals, I don't mean dogs, cats, parrots and other pets are held for the purpose of eating and working clearly. But I will touch and slaughter animals more precisely by killing as the law says, and in the sense that animals are held for their own and their own food or for the market. In this way, Article 17 literally states: “The animals are only allowed to be slaughtered if before the slaughter they were drugged unless they were slaughtered by poultry and rabbits in the household for their own purposes. Two exceptionally referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article: "animals shall be slaughtered without prior stunning only in the event of forced slaughter or ritual slaughter." And 3: "It is forbidden to stunning and slaughter, to kill or kill animals for ritual purposes." This third one's definitely fine. Now that's where we come to be. The slaughter, I don't mean here on this pig's knee, we seem to have solved that. When that doesn't appear anymore, a calf can only be performed in slaughterhouses. So for my own use, I'm holding that it should allow people to do it in their own backyard or what the Istrians would say in their own court. Why? Someone's gonna say what? If that's what you're looking for, then you're out of your mind. But wait, wait a minute! I think I know how that little Croatian peasant lives. It doesn't matter if it's about Istria, whether it's about Lisa, whether it's about Slavonia or down Dalmatia? If he is now taking his calf to the slaughterhouse, means for transport, for slaughter, for veterinarian, for the return of meat if he gets at all he will pay more precisely he will have to give half the slaughterhouse, the carrier to the veterinarian in order to keep the remaining half. And it just can't be like that, gentlemen. Our people who raise these animals, but you are as aware as I am, not that this law will not be accepted, but simply that law cannot be accepted as no one in this country will ever give up a pig's skin whatever it is that any representative thinks of it. Therefore, a peasant should be allowed to slaughter a pig, two, three, as many as he wants, but also a calf and a lamb or a goat for his own purposes. Without it you will destroy the village and without it you will destroy the peasant. But without it, you won't simply succeed in demonstrating the authority of your government or your ministry. I'd be the first one to make it clear that a calf is being slaughtered in a slaughterhouse, a slaughterhouse, but what will you do if they just aren't there? So now you have to drive a calf 40, 50 kilometers from your barn. From Buzet to Buj or Buzet, say, Pazin. If that happens to you again, you lose half the body, and that means you've lost 3, 4, 5 or 6 months of work in vain. And that's just the point. You no longer have in this country to sell your goods to. You can no longer find a buyer to buy you a half or a quarter or a sixth of a calf when you on the other side of the Plodine, Lidl, Mercatone kilograms of thighs are sold for 28 kuna. True, that meat is worth a little or not to say anything. That flesh is not even the shadow of the one that was raised at home. But in this oddity, people clearly choose worse just so they can feed themselves and their family. But you'll be gentlemen tomorrow. What are we gonna do with these criminal provisions? Penalties are dragonish. The fines are for a natural person from 10 to 15000, 5,000, 10,000, and I think you should understand that. It doesn't matter when I talk about that law or circuses, or dog races, or giving animals into those games for happiness. The problem is the meaning of these existential norms, norms that go against tradition and that sort of go against the existence of our village. Article 35 discusses the Committee on Animals, in the following text, we see the founding of the Minister and members of the commission: representatives of the body of the State Administration responsible for science, education, bodies of the State Administration responsible for nature protection, Veterinary Faculty, Medical Faculty is also represented, Faculty of Agriculture, Croatian Veterinary Chamber, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of crafts and nine Animal Protection Associations. It's all good, Mr. Secretary of State, but you know who's missing here. The people who work are missing, our peasants are missing. If they can be represented under nine Animal Protection Associations, I have absolutely nothing against them, then I guess our peasants should be represented. I finally argue that those of the nine members should have a half majority of five members or 15 members should have eight members. Well, our peasants aren't sadistic like maybe some artists I don't know not to say in ritual, but in the function of their performances to shock the public of a better slaughter on the pitter stage and so forth. Those people who spend half a day in the barn, so these people are responsible for the village, which the city has not yet failed. These people take great care of their cattle, and these people kind of need to write the rules. Because people who have no idea what it means to spend half a day in a barn can only do harm to our peasant. If you want to regulate the treatment of domestic animals, then let's do it. But then we simply separate the animal for food from one side and the pets on the other side about which Mr Pankretic also spoke. We're just mixing up what you're mixing up doesn't. This law that is here in front of us should bear the name Pets Act, and take care of food animals then regulate other laws and entrust it to people who live off the sale of some I don't know of calves, heifers, goats or sheep. It's also true for furskins. Someone mentioned we all got their memos. Well, we just can't ruin those people. Well, over three hundred families are those people who do this in the Republic of Croatia and live on it. They feed themselves and feed their families. The money they collect pays the state's commitments. These coins develop their own under quotes of production and try to reorient the next day to another activity. So, in one word, let's finally be consistent, and then by the logic that we're proposing here, we should all of us who have leather shoes seem to strip them off and not put them on our feet anymore. Article 39(3) is kind of absurd. It literally states: “An animal’s daily life must be assured of a period during which he will not be tied up for the possibility of movement in accordance with their physiological and ethnological needs. Related animals must be able to move, and they must not be exposed to pain, suffering, injury and fear. But, gentlemen, what are you going to do with the milk cows? What are you gonna do with the bred calves? What kind of walk? It's just out of the question. You can't organize it like that. Animal shelters in article 56, I see they're taking on the burden of local self-government. I hope that between the retirement homes and those shelters if the adoption of a dog would cost us 1800 kuna in this country we will first opt for a far more endangered category of dogs, and these are our pensioners. The one who suggests that is simply insolent. Finally, if you gave 1800 kuna to our peasant, then if you gave 1800 kuna to our peasant half of them would no longer work, but they would live on those 1800 kunas. What are you talking about? Shame on you who are unable to provide our peasant with more than 500 kuna on average. That's the problem. That's the problem. And for one dog we're ready to give 1800 kuna. I am for it, but there is simply some order of value to be respected. Shut up! This Regulation shall enter And lastly, of this Animal Protection Act, which, by my court, should bear the title of the Pet Protection Act, there will be nothing but another perhaps irreparable blow to the Croatian village. This law may have been observed from your position, with perhaps the positions of accredited diplomats who have pets here falling to the top of European legislation. I agree, but as far as our peasants are concerned, this law is nothing but enforceable. If she lives, I think there will be an end to the Croatian village. And you will know in a year how many people of this law in the Republic of Croatia will abide. No one, no one who sells sheep, goats, lambs... And somewhere else where you're standing regularly, you're trying something like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78196	Thank you. We've got a fix on six. The first is Mr. Representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78197	Dear Mr. Vice President, the populist circus of fellow Caine as you can see is a very well-trained artistic point where happiness is not involved, only more species participate. But for his information on the island of Manhattan where he is sending me in his xenophobic manner regularly fishing with a hook and also with a network and in other ways it is very well known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78198	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78199	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's really hard to count all the incorrect allegations after this circus break-up, but here's the one that seems significant to me. He says we offer a law that will destroy the village. That's just not true. The law that lies before us refers to animal protection. And Mr. Caine, about what you've been saying and the way you've spoken, is indeed beneath all levels for this House. And to compare the pensioners with some dogs from your imagination, it's really inappropriate from your vivid imagination, and it really doesn't suit you to speak in this way in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78200	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleague Cain, I'm correcting your probably for the sake of ignorance an incorrect assumption. A service clan so called for June what you said about the calf is free of charge in authorized slaughterhouses. Otherwise it's called the fifth quarter, and I think it's the greatest civilization reach we've ever achieved. For your information when holding your big parties, mine, the service slaughter doesn't cost you anything if June isn't over 18 or 20 months old, when it has to be put on, to check whether BSE's brain is sick or not. But you must be lucky to have an authorized slaughterhouse at hand and then a peasant doesn't hurt. Otherwise I absolutely agree not traditionally, it's quite something else, but we're talking about service slaughter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78202	Thank you. Correction, Madam Representative Jagoda Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, I'd have to correct my colleague Cain's full statement, but I'll just limit myself to him saying this is the Pets Act. Mr. Cain, this isn't the Pet Act. And your tirada wasn't as circus as your colleagues said, but as a demagogue, it was perhaps for your voters who listened to you so that you might feed the money from the retired dogs, which is offensive. This law brings us all together into the culture of behavior, which you certainly would not have in your act almost ever, and especially not now when we have talked about a law that will bind us when we enter the European Union, and so do the peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78204	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78205	Thank you very much. I would like to correct my colleague Cain's allegations that the breeding of furskins deals with 300 families in Croatia, perhaps directly. But to date, there is a legal activity, and even preferably due to exports, it monitors and manufactures washed in livestock factories. Follow veterinary, loading and sewing. And we will have to make a political decision by colleague Cain that something that has been economically desirable so far is forgotten. And it's good that the government has accepted the proposal for a transitional period of 10 years, because these people have to start living on something else. But what's not good, which in reason has no indication that their preorientation will help with state resources. Imagine you propose a ban on breeding pigs for the production of prosciutto or kitchens from Drniš or Imotski, so did counterpart Babić. I would therefore beg of you, so I would ask you, in the future, when you ask the Parliament for a ban on one economic activity, you come with all the solutions that they will continue to be on the economic market without what we forbid them to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78206	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Branimir Pasecky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78207	Mr. Vice President, there's so much going on, but I'm so busy with the things he said, I'd blame you first for not warning an unmanned representative about insulting a pensioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78208	Thank you. Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There's a word Mr. Tonino Picula on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78209	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister. Here is a statement on this document that has also caused increased tones in the assembly, and I would first of all like to commend the competent authorities of the state administration, professional services as well as parliamentary committees at a proportionate openness to the proposals coming from interested associations that Croatia finally gets the modern Animal Protection Act. It is a much more comprehensive document than the former, which focuses on animal protection problems and in keeping and growing, their health care and in performing zootechnical procedures, deaths, safety in transport in economic farming or in breeding for further sale. This final proposal discusses the protection of wild animals in zoos, exhibitions and entertainment. Better than before, he edits the increasingly serious problem of protecting abandoned lost animals while giving attention and protecting animals for experiments and other scientific research. In the debate on the bill, fundamental issues were raised, what legislation to adopt, what standards to respect, what extent of protection to establish, how much resources of course it provides and how it provides. As was the last time in a parliamentary debate when we had the first reading about the final proposal and this law can be spoken in critical terms. The intention to make this law even more effective to cover the wider diapazone application is the only motive for the 4 amendments I have submitted. In any case, it is unquestionable to regulate in a more modern way an area of particular importance not only for the national economy but also for strengthening the culture of non-violence and consideration for living beings who suffer and who are unable to help or ask for help. One of the valuable newspapers in the final proposal is the inclusion of a point on the ban on breeding animals for fur production. Although this supplement allows the proposed law to be seen to a greater extent as a law that really protects animals, the delay in its application for 10 years is in many ways devalued. The proposed period in my opinion is too long. such a long transitional period, in the very provision of a ban on breeding of fur animals, takes away on seriousness. The period of seven years I propose is more realistic, and equally realistic leaves you more than enough time to adjust. I think it is good to repeat that, according to independent research, almost 3/4 of our fellow citizens have been declared to ban the breeding of fur animals and that there are very important ethical and ecological arguments for the ban. The transitional period must be as short as possible to ensure that the prohibition is indeed effective. Seven years is also a long transitional period given the constant and unconstitutional decline in fur breeding in Croatia, but compared to 10 years it is still a more realistic option. For ten years, a period of significantly greater ethical shifts and changes in legislation will take place in Europe and the world and should therefore be reduced due to the effectiveness of the law and to a more serious understanding of the transitional period. Croatia has a great opportunity to stop this form of cruelty against animals because there are no economic restrictions on such a ban while on the other hand it has huge public support and clear ethical and ecological arguments to support it. I certainly plead in this place and that people who do furry damage themselves in a way that will be quite appropriate to their funds. Besides this colleague and colleague, there's no reason for dog races to be allowed on any one, not just the so-called. hard bases, since the greatest cruelty against animals is hidden behind the very organisation of such competitions, in breeding dogs for such competitions, in keeping animals, which are organised exclusively for betting purposes. Dog races are not comparable to horse races, because dogs chosen to become racers usually live in cages and because of injuries and diseases caused by breeding, race preparation, transport and at the races themselves, few dogs manage to experience four or five years. In the United States where the dog race problem is most pronounced, they are banned on all bases in 34 countries. This kind of cruelty towards animals, according to the kind for which citizens are most sensitive, should be completely banned. Since the facts of the running dogs are already recognised by the legislation, the country in which such races are held long and in Croatia, I think it is reasonable to prevent such a type of cruelty only because of profits on bet. Dogs racing are treated as running machines, grown in so many numbers that there is a solution to so-called. excess dogs and those who are injured, old, too slow or simply are no longer profitable. Thousands of dogs are killed every year in an attempt to keep the dog racing industry alive. Some dogs kill themselves in the name of selective breeding before they ever set foot on a race track. Dogs chosen to become runners up to the period between the 14th and 17th months of life usually live in cages and wear muzzles. Many of the cranberries develop wounds and thus get an infection from internal and external voids. Although some breeds such as pears are very sensitive to temperature because they have little fat deposits and thin fur in the body, they are forced to race in extreme conditions from temperatures below zero to severe heat. The injuries and diseases, broken legs, heat and heart attacks kill them effectively. When it comes to dogs, I advocate another supplement that would allow holding, it makes it impossible to keep the dogs on the chains permanently tied. The exception could be allowed if they were tied to an extended wire guide, which would provide them with enough space to move. The adoption of this amendment is necessary because veterinary inspectors cannot prohibit the permanent keeping of tied dogs on a chain unless it is explicitly prohibited by law. On the other hand, we welcome the amendment to Article 57 in paragraph 4 which sets a somewhat more reasonable period for the adoption of animals from a shelter. A new period of 60 days is better suited to the position that abandoned animals should not be automatically punished by death because of the irresponsibility of their former owners. And now something about these famous 56 kunas to which the distinguished representative Damir Cain has already been called on several occasions in the assembly and the public. That's what I'm saying for precision. That the first draft of the law, then the final draft of the law, had very seriously highlighted the issue of financing the animal shelter. Already calculated in the light of the bill's proposal, it estimates that about 4 million kuna should be provided for the establishment of one animal shelter and 26 kuna per day for the daily cost of one dog or one million kuna per year. I'm talking about obligations, legal obligations. If we want to live in the rule of law and respect the laws independently of what they are talking about and what they regulate, then indeed if we want to respect the cost of a dog's stay in a hygiene service today, we already have 58 kuna. What's that supposed to mean? For accommodation in the service it is mandatory to inject each dog against rabies, dehaemenize, and chip if it is not marked. Gentlemen, civilization costs money. I am truly convinced that, among other things, this bill, i.e. the final proposal, tends to regulate certain things precisely, but then we must honestly know and what is the calculation for certain items that we will apply. Of course, those who have to provide these funds and speak from the mayor's position not only of the parliamentary representative, will first and foremost have to be taken care of by the local self-government unit and we will have to plan those funds at far greater amounts. Because the problem of abandoned and lost animals not only burdens local self-government budgets but we also have to look at the other side of the medals, it also poses an increasing security risk to citizens. It is assumed that the number of registered dogs should be increased by at least 35% in order to obtain an actual number of abandoned stray animals. It is no longer enough to intervene the city's hygiene service in certain cases, more and more work for the police especially when it comes to more dangerous species of abandoned dogs by irresponsible owners. The problem of course increases itself when animals find themselves on roads that cause accidents and people to suffer. Facing this increasingly serious problem requires first and foremost a better interconnection between cities and municipalities and more significant involvement and county. In addition, each unit of local self-government, especially larger cities, can reduce the number of stray dogs in their area if special decisions on dog holding but also on continuous media actions affect the conscience of animal owners. At the very end, I regret that the final draft of the law dropped a provision that imposed that animals in rural households must be killed by an expert with prior stunning. It is not good that at a time when in Croatia we are really struggling with the threat of various diseases of animal origin, it casts out a provision that requires a professional person at the slaughter of animals and thus puts people in danger and safety. As far as I could understand it, that provision was not meant to prohibit the practice of the cradle itself and thus endanger the tradition, but was aimed at sharpening the control of the death of animals. It seems to me because of this amendment, the future law, and it will not be fully in line with the provisions of the European Union. There are, therefore, many more topics that will be discussed first and foremost within the framework of the newly established Ethics Commission, which this Law also provides for to welcome. Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's Club of Representatives, with reservations made according to certain 4 amendments, wants to improve the quality of this document. Sticking to the principle that if we can't stop all suffering doesn't mean we shouldn't stop the one we can. We see the final proposal as an expression of the proposing's serious intentions to further interest the Croatian public in animal rights, and their protection is modern in this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78210	Thank you very much. At 13 and 16 it was time to sign up for 10 minutes. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78211	The Rules of Procedure were injured, Article 214 as much as I've ever raised a plate before but you haven't given me your word. Mr. Pasecky insults me, imputes me, frames me for insulting the pensioners. I'm just saying that one dog in a shelter is a local self-government costing thousands of 800 kuna, and that 700 thousand pensioners live with less than a thousand 800 kunas. One thousand 800 kuna, Mr. Pasecky, is the minimum wage that about 700 thousand workers receive in this country. Finally, Mr. Picula now said that one shelter costs 4 million kuna for 100 dogs, and in Buzet, we gave 12 million kunas to the House of Retired People for 60 people. Civilization costs, but before we reach some civilization standards, to be cynical, then let's take care of those who put us in charge. These are the pensioners we should discuss as strongly as in the Animal Law. That's what I said and I'm behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78212	Mr. Representative, you've been talking about something that hasn't been here in the last 10 minutes, nobody's said anything. You referred to article 214 incorrectly, so I won't give you any notice, but next time I will. Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78213	A colleague of Picula said that fur farming is unethical and that Europe is forcing us to adhere to some ethics in fur breeding. You see, that's incorrect. I'll tell you one thing first. We have to justify ourselves when we talk about such a small, ticklish subject that we are not against Europe, that we love animals, etc. I'll tell you loud and clear, in Europe, only Austria and the UK have a law on the ban on fur breeding. Just those two countries. It's almost like Croatia passed a law on banning banana farming. Well, please, we can't talk about it, but we keep calling for a kind of Europe. You know, that reminds me of the one where the frog passed by and saw the horses weave and then she raised her leg so that she too could be shoeed. Well, it's not all about Europe. I could talk a lot about this because I know this problem, and do you know what the economic benefit in Croatia is from fur growing? Incredibly large, there is a Croatian power. If we go from that civilization assumption that the greatest civilization value is a man, looking from the world and on the religious side, then everything must be subordinated to man. I'm against animal torture, but man is the greatest civilization value.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78214	Thank you. This could be more like a replica. And Mr. Representative Josip Djakic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78215	Mr. Vice President, I am also correcting Mr. Tonin Picula's incorrect claim that there are ethical and ecological reasons why it should be reduced to seven years for fur growing. In fact, it is absolutely incorrect and there is no evidence that 75% of the public of Croatia does not approve of fur growing when we know that 300 joint, 300 joint breeders plus those of their other co-operatives as well as livestock food factories and everyone else lives on it, from this economic branch called export. I am absolutely in favour of abolishing the 10-year ban and for furskins to continue to be one of the export branches of Croatian agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78216	Thank you. And this was a replica, but here, now it's 13 and 29. We're gonna stop this debate. We'll continue at 3:00. The first is the club of HNS and Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric, and then Mr. Miroslav Rožić. Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78217	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session and the debate on the final proposal of the Animal Protection Act. For the Club of HNS Representatives, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78218	Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Here, there are as many as four of us, we can have one game of shakes played. Yeah, and a writer. I'd like to add to this debate but in one maybe a slightly different way with a different intonation of what we heard earlier this afternoon. In fact, we all have to admit that in 99 C.E., a really big step has been made in this area when this House adopted the Animal Wellbeing Act. Of course, this is a very dynamic area and in these past six, seven years there have been a number of new initiatives, proposals, discoveries and it is clear that our task is to install exactly these initiatives and that come from the European Union, from the Council of Europe, from professional organisations, from the International Office for Infectious Diseases, etc. And that's good. This is certainly not and the last one I would say reading, we will permanently read in the coming decades of this law, we will have it regularly and we will change it regularly. I'm only sorry that the debate essentially went so broadly, unnecessarily broadly because I think that about 95% of the content of this law we can all agree and the pity that we haven't concentrated on those three or four moments that deserve our attention, which we should actually try to reach some sort of agreement if not consensus and at least most of the things we could really solve through professional arguments. Therefore, I would like to commend the promoter on what he did clearly in the segment, I would say improvements to the laws on animal transport, animal deaths, animal breeding used for the purpose of production, then the use of animals for experiments. There's a series of I'd say sharp measures introduced we know now in which areas. We cannot use animals in testing or experimentation at all. Then, we fully support in front of the HNS club everything that has been said with the holding of pets with a special reference to pet rearing and selling, then keeping animals in zoos and their use, use actually in various plays. It's all a bit uncontestable and I think it's a good thing that all clubs have more or less supported these amendments or the law in this form in that part. I would especially like to point out something that has not been sufficiently underlined and I think it's very good, which is training people who care about animals. From now on, according to Article 32 of the Animal Exam, the minister is responsible, the minister will be able to perform the exam clearly year after year, adapt to the needs of that time and to all technological and other needs. So I think it's also very good. What I would also like to commend and I think that we all agreed more or less on these are the changes introduced by the applicant in relation to the first reading of the text, the amendments in Article 23. I think we can all agree on the scientific research mentioned in that article. Also, we all agree more or less with Article 35 so that the Committee on Animal Protection expands and even with some scientific research,... I'm thinking about medical school and she also has a representative in that commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, Article 48, too, we can all agree on these changes in this article and apply to pets, and I think it is very reasonable to extend the time limit from 30 to 60 days of keeping animals in shelter before they are killed because it gives us more space to house these animals and I think it is something that we all agreed more or less about and that we at the Croatian People's Party club also support. However, there are now three articles that we really need to agree on. I think we're all on the same track more or less, but we don't agree on any small details. See, in Article 19, which changes, it is changed back so that no longer requires the stunning of animals used for their own use and no need to invite a butcher, therefore, to perform the slaughter when it comes to slaughtering in the household for his own purposes. I asked on the board when we discussed it and I'm very glad that they were also representatives of some non-governmental animal protection organizations present and it was said then that in fact and in the household there have been major changes in the last twenty years, that this necklace, that slaughter of animals no longer resembles what we had twenty years ago, whineing, wrinkling of animals. And we all agreed that the data that we got there was accurate, that more or less in 90% of the cases in the animal slaughter in the household called the butcher. He's stunning the animal and he's doing it professionally. However, colleagues and colleagues are about the 10% cases where it does not seem to be, when an unprofessional person performs animal slaughter, when the animal is unfortunately not stunning. That's what you should look yourself in the face and see what you do. Do these 10% people who don't want to call the butcher do it themselves in an unprofessional way we want to essentially because of them here to throw out that sentence and let them do it the way they did. I think if 90% of people have already realized that this cabin must also be done in one professional way so that animals do not suffer, that it is not caused by pain, I don't think that because of these 10% of our citizens in the country they should actually go a step back, but that they, like most others, have to insist on calling on the butcher to stun the animal and to slaughter it in the way that it should essentially be done in accordance with all the directives and instructions that we receive from European institutions, but which our NGOs warn us about. We think it's a step forward and we didn't have to retreat based on the discussion of the individuals we had at the first reading. Then, the ban on breeding animals for the purpose of producing fur. We see that the third country in the European Union, with two countries in the European Union, would be the third countries to go with such a strict proposal. We'll support it at the club. However, we would like to warn ourselves that sometimes we do run in front of European ore. We're bigger Catholics than the Pope. A few days ago, we had a Stockholm Convention that warned of the great harmfulness of hard-to-degradable organic compounds. And that's where we saw that we're only the 60th country to accept this Convention, sign, ratify the Convention, beg your pardon, we signed it earlier, we ratified it. So there's 60 highly harmful organic compounds, and we're right here in front of everyone. I repeat again. The HNS here doesn't insist on doing anything different. But we don't care if we put that deadline at 10, 7 years or 2 years. What's most important here, let's be correct with these people, we have to make them look bad. It's about people who got hired themselves, invested big money, found in the world the market, successfully exported, hired 30, 300, excuse me, people. So 300 families live on it. Therefore, it is a minimum obligation for us to demand that we, in essence, talk to the competent ministries, predict how we will damage these people, help them essentially change their activity and thus address future similar requirements for certain producers. In particular, it bothers a man when it comes to one production branch, one export branch. We're very rare when restrictive and hard on importers and merchants, it bothers a man a little bit. So, at least we went to correct those people's damages. And third, and that's where I'm going to end up, these are these two committees of the Ethics Commission and the Committee for Animal Protection. It seems to me that we could be a little bit more detailed about the number of members, how we propose the composition of committees, how we appoint the composition of committees, because we did not actually get answers to that and certainly would not want to be more questions once we have adopted the law than there have been so far on this segment. So either I haven't noticed it, possibly, but I don't think the question of the number of members of those committees has been resolved. I repeat, their proposal and their appointment in these committees because it is crucial that they really work there and be people of the profession. Although it is commendable to what you have suggested that NGOs be there, their representatives, because in this way we are essentially avoiding a lot of objections, so they are related to future work. What I would very much like to see here, and that is when progress is made and when these commissions are formed and we see that one of these committees, the Committee for Animal Protection must provide regular reports, annual reports, I would very much like that report, one copy of the reports to end up on the committee responsible, so that we too can monitor what is happening in this segment. We don't always have to be at the plenary session, namely we don't always have to discuss this matter at the plenary session, but surely our working bodies, professional working bodies should have that information, so they'll give us a signal whether it's necessary for a plenary session with a topic or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78219	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Doric, who said that only about 10% of the population are not actually called butchers, it is professionally done. I think that's very incorrect. I live alone in a village in Slavonia and where so many butchers come from. It wouldn't be done in five months of time. And the other thing is, people aren't inextricable now, and different things are done than 20 years ago, and that's where we get along. And she has a folk, better to die a village than customs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78221	For the club HSP, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78222	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must say that regardless of the normly defined many of our laws show that in our transitional converted privatisation society is a very often minor welfare of man, let alone an animal. Something about this aspect of the law was said by my predecessors, and among other things, Mr Cain, who I rarely agree with, but with some of his statements today, I simply have to agree with. It is otherwise known that hyperinflation of regulations is very, very characteristic of undeveloped societies. It usually came under the auspices of these laws in the Constitution. In recent times, it is based on what is called the so - called "the so-called "species". the need to comply with European guidelines, whatever that means. Sublegal acts are of course based on the law and ultimately the application of the rules leads to one and has led us to one disorder of the basic system of values. On the other hand, we can also find provisions at the level of the 12 tablets, so to speak. In this sense, this bill is indeed an ideal, illustrative example. In this proposal, the scope of the law, Article 2 which is prescribed in Article 2, sets out very broadly. I'll remind you that it says that it applies to all vertebral animals, and then listed individual exceptions. I don't have to, and I have no intention of reminding you here which animals belong to a group of vertebrates. But there are some who are truly exotic, and are not listed as exceptions. However, in any case, the fundamental provisions should distinguish between the fundamental division of wild animals and domestic animals in our court. We at the HSP club even think it would be much better, more practical and smarter to pass two laws. One that would refer to the protection of wild animals and other laws relating to the protection of domestic animals, especially in two categories. Because these domestic animals should also be divided into those domestic animals that are kept for breeding and for pets. If this were the case, this law would be strategically laid down, then many doubt would be avoided, so I would even say many absurd situations that could arise from this law, and at the same time it could be much better met by all those animal protection associations that most of their observations give and refer to the protection of pets or wild animals, not domestic animals intended for breeding. Then perhaps many of the attitudes here that have been expressed so far, which have been quite uncompromising, could actually be more easily tolerated and easier to reconcile, because really there is no mention here at all of what our colleague Cain mentioned, actually our culture of animal breeding and everything that actually created our family and village, so in a large part of our society, which is some tradition etc. etc. Many of these things would actually become undeniable if it were to be so perceived, that we actually have two or even three animal protection laws, but divided by wild, domestic and domestic pets. Of course, Article 3 explains even 26 concepts relating to what I’m talking about. Unfortunately, there is no definition of the most common concepts mentioned in this law, and I will only list some and you will see that they have a completely different implications for pets, domestic animals for breeding or wild animals. For example, there are no definitions such as pain, suffering, injury, and animal fear. I warn you from this place both as an expert and as a biologist that it is very dangerous to attach anthropomorphic traits to animals. That the story of how scary the wolf is, the fox is cunning, the bear is strong, the owl is smart, and so on. Things have nothing to do with the reality of the animal world at all. Thus, not even those wild animals, let alone domestic animals intended for breeding. So neither is it, is all those epithets and all those anthropomorphic traits that we know to give to animals from rabbits to cattle, in fact they have nothing to do with reality or their real feelings. It is likely, therefore, in accordance with good Croatian customs, that it is allowed to define what is actually pain, suffering, injury or fear of animals. This practice, of course, will not be determined but will be relativated and offended and, by my personal court, bring this whole law, in fact, its intensity. There are also several places in the law that talk about so-called. biological preparations. Now I'm raising some kind of professional voice here because I'm going to say that it would certainly be much better and more appropriate to talk about biochemical preparations, not biological preparations, because biological preparations are, say, clones. Of course it's not about them. For now, there's only a sheep named Dolly in that domain. There are also interesting provisions on the prohibited procedures for the protection of animals under Article 4 of the proposed law, so when I list this, it will immediately become clear to you what I was talking about earlier, about the anthropomorphic properties of animals. In Article 4, which lists the prohibited procedures for the purpose of animal protection among the 23 banned actions of several of them, these prohibited actions are broadly defined and then we see absolutely no need taxively in that same rank to list some others and I would say almost bizarre actions. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: that it is forbidden to raise animals in a way that suffers pain, suffering and fear and deliberately harm them against the rules of the profession, i.e. the latest scientific achievements. In addition to not being defined what animals actually experience as pain, suffering, fear or intentional injury, this manipulation, regardless of which, this definition that it is forbidden to cultivate animals in such a way as to suffer pain, suffering, fear or deliberately harm them against the rules of the profession, or the latest scientific achievements, is more than enough to cover what is later, where some entirely bizarre actions are later listed in the same rank. For example, one of them is already mentioned here, organizing dog races on hard bases. Well, of course it causes pain, suffering, or even fear in those dogs. There's no need to point that out. Or make living animals cut off sensitive parts of the body. And I guess it's contained in these deliberately, it's forbidden to hurt them on purpose. Why are such bizarre examples cited? Or feed animals to other living animals, etc. So a whole series of bizarre forbidden actions that are all covered by this prohibition to raise animals in a way that suffers pain, suffering and fear and deliberately hurt them, etc. etc. Articles 17 and 19 mentions the working slaughter, in particular the entry into the eyes of Article 17(2), where the animals are indicated to be slaughtered without prior stunning only in the event of forced slaughter and in the case of ritual slaughter. So what kind of voluntary slaughter is that? And finally I ask the question: What are these ritual gifts at all? Who conducts them in Croatia and in what is the difference between a ritual that is permitted to slaughter and a ritual that is forbidden to slaughter. What's the difference? I don't see her. Regardless of all the skepticism and often criticised criticism of the situation in Croatia, it seems to me that we are at a lower civilization level than we usually think of ourselves when we give examples like this. The law provides for the establishment of two committees: the Committee for Animal Protection, Article 35 and the Ethics Commission, Article 34. I'm going to suggest a little sarcastically that another commission be established, let's say, to control the work of the Ethics Commission and the Animal Protection Committee, so that we do everything in that rule if you don't want to do anything then form a committee. It is an interesting provision of Article 55(5), which reads, quotes paragraph 5, which reads: "A found wild animal is handed over to a shelter for wild animals which ensures its return to nature if possible, otherwise the animal is offered to the zoo which is equipped to receive it. And unless the zoo is able to receive an animal, it can be killed." Instead of any comment, I'll tell you a little story. By building in Sesvedi, on the beginnings of the Blackfield, otherwise, the park of the nature of Lonjski, they had cleared whole new settlements overnight. I'm told by a colleague of mine who has a little bigger garden in that neighborhood that the hedgehogs, the weasels and the kunas, running away from the construction lift in that part of the world, have found refuge in his garden. Under this law, I ask a question. Since two, three weasels, several hedgehogs and several kunas are not intruding under this Law, it is not clear whether this Law would require my colleague to hand over that animal to a wild animal shelter, whether they could remain in his garden. If he has to hand them over, whether he has to catch them himself or he's going to do some service for him, which according to this Law does not exist. In other words, in this story the emphasis is on the absurdity of the provision, i.e. regulations. Such examples I can tell you here as long as you want. Namely, and the basic question of where this sanctuary is located, if I could happen to find some wild animal to take her there right away. The provision of Article 69, as well as other transitional and final provisions, is a story for itself. It obliges the Minister in paragraph 1 to adopt the rules under this Act within a period of, watch out, 2 years. Within two years of his entry into force. I think, if I'm wrong, let one of my colleagues correct me, I think it's a new Croatian record in fact, in the slow-making of the rules under the existing law. I don't think any law has laid down such a two-year deadline to lay down regulations under this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We hold at the club that such a provision on giving power to the minister is not, that powers are actually given contrary to Article 17. The Law on the System of State Administration and we are asking whether perhaps to vote this Law for that reason should then have a two-thirds majority, if the Minister can do everything in this paragraph of Article 69(3). So let me just have one final sentence. We think the need for proper regulation to address the animal protection issue is necessary, but it is obvious that neither this simpler animal welfare law we had was applied. And that is why we would not want to see a bad situation in the implementation of existing laws with us always trying to correct the adoption of a new regulation rather than better enforcement of existing regulations. I would just like the secretary of state to answer me because 9 years has been in force in this country of the Animal Welfare Act, how many judgments have been passed so far on the basis of this 9-year application of the animal welfare law in Croatia. How many rules of law have been passed by courts throughout Croatia, based on the boredom of the existing Law. He's been in this country for nine years. Therefore, as far as I know, I can safely say, no solution has been made in the first five years of the existence of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78223	Thank you. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78224	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78225	We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78226	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The fact is that the adoption of this Law can be discussed, discussed whether it is necessary or not, but the fact is that the existing legal regulations that this matter, both in part or in full, have not been respected so far. That's why I'm going to make a few critical remarks and beg for explanations from the motionary. First, in Article 4, when it comes to bans, which is forbidden, for example, I would like interpretations. It is said in Article 4(2), point 15, that it is prohibited to force animals to take certain foods or substances unless it is designated by a veterinarian for veterinary health purposes or if it is not scientifically justified. Today, we have both in Croatia and in the world, for example, geese shopping. Hosted in our people, I wonder if that's what's forbidden and who's going to control it and how. It seems to me that control is going to be very difficult, and I'd like to hear who's going to punish the villagers or the people who do the job. In addition, I will immediately say that, in the same article, it is forbidden to grow animals for the purpose of the production of fur. I understand we're running in front of the ore and we keep running. In this country, sirs are still too unemployed to have new people out of work again and in a new way. The Chakovec Association, which addressed us, gave very exact indicators. I do not see here in this Law, especially in that final explanation where it is said, to implement this law it will not be necessary to allocate funds from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Gentlemen, I'm asking you now and I ask you to give me a loud and clear response. What these people will do in life, will you from the ministry repay their loans and will you make sure that they finish some other schools first and ensure that they both exist to themselves and other families. If you were serious and your intentions were serious, then you should have tried to set aside money in the state budget for these purposes. If not then you obviously haven't thought about it. You wrote something to touch someone or something. I am also to immediately declare myself very clearly and precisely, because these days we are also besieged by the representatives of the Animal Protection Association and those who are obviously or will one day be obviously very quickly threatened by personal existence. I'm against animal abuse, and it seems to me that in this Law there's not enough talk about how it's going to be conducted and controlled, whether someone's leaving an animal, whether they're harassed and cruel to it, to them and to such persons, they need to be drastic. But I would ask you to tell me the solution to what you're going to do with these 300 people, or 300 families. I don't think you've even thought about it. The other thing is we're not taking care of the living people in this country today. For example, in the explanation that you gave the inscriptions, I believe that this is how you got it from certain circles dealing with the need to create one animal shelter for 100 dogs needs 3 million 975 thousand kuna on one side and for the purpose of working animal shelter, it takes 26 kuna per dog per day. We had a discussion last week about the gentlemen's budget, I hope that one of you was, it seems to me that Mr Kovacevic spent some time here, then I was discussing raising the base from 400 kuna to more for social aid accounts and all other donations, it turns out that for a dog shelter it takes 780 kuna, and the bases that haven't been changed for social contributions since 2001 continue this government proposes to stay at 400 kuna. And now let's just think about whether it's necessary for this country to adopt a Law on the Protection of Living People because it seems to me that we're not doing enough or very little taking care of it. I would have gotten to Article 17. If we want to be principled gentlemen, then it is said in Article 17 that animals are only allowed to be slaughtered if they are slaughtered before the slaughter, except that there is again a hammering of coins, and here we see that one of us is taking care not to lose his money because it is permitted to worship because we know that in Croatia we have several export slaughterhouses where for the purposes of some faiths, I do not turn out to be incorrect to any kind of ritual worship. But if we're principled, then let's be principled to the end, then let's ban everything. But no, that's where we're going to go for someone's concession, so we're going to allow ritual worship, but when it comes to some others, we're going to ban them from growing that they can't survive, or that I'm going to have to finance myself with the help of this country to the end. I would like to pay particular attention to Article 56. It is said here, so Article 56 speaks of the establishment of an animal shelter. I don't think he's clear enough. In the first instance of Article 56(4), it is said that if no animal shelter is set up, then either its establishment and its growth are financed by one or more units of local or regional self-government, or the City of Zagreb, in accordance with the needs. I ask you in which way several municipalities and cities will agree as first what their needs are because when payment comes, those needs are often very low. What happens if you don't agree, gentlemen? Who's going to make the decision that it has to be founded? That's not what it says here. Who and how will finance such shelters? We all understand that such shelters are needed, but we probably need some kind of minimal network, we'll probably need to have certain hygiene conditions that are written here. And one more thing is not how many such shelters must be away from the nearest settlement because and now we often have cases where and now shelters that come to noise and everything that goes along with it and citizens have the right to rebel over it, they don't like less animals, but gentlemen if you write something down by the end as well as in this explanation we end up passing the law, and you have at least 30 articles where you write that... in accordance and that you will comply with the regulations of the sublaw. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And who in this country makes the laws of the Croatian Parliament or Government through the ministries of sublaw? It seems to me that often the Parliament is put into the third plan, but we'll just bring it in. It is also said in Article 57 that all animal shelters must be held and said that in case a veterinary inspector decides to place an animal in such a shelter. I'm asking you because it doesn't say the same thing, what if there's no room in the shelter? What if there's no food? Here's an example of a shelter in Varazdin that isn't, it doesn't help either the city or the county, it has problems with that. The inspector will order the animal to settle there, and who will pay for it? Unfortunately, there's nothing to say about it, and at the same time... You're writing that the state budget doesn't need any money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By the way, and for these shelters, I ask you, we talked and last week we talked about it, and last week we had a debate and a law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, we keep dropping and re-leasing that units of local and regional self-government have obligations, and I don't see that decentralisation is done, these are stories for small children, where are money from the government that will help units of local and regional self-government to further finance it? Unfortunately, there is no such thing. So, obviously, it's about to pass the law, the burden on local and regional self-government units is being re-loaded again, and we don't have the mechanisms to force them to do something unless they agree and it seems to me that this is a law that we're simply going to bring, and it's going to be funded as it is, and when that happens, we usually get the animals killed, we're imposing high standards, and we'd like to be in some sort of salon shoe, go to dance and to the ball, and we simply didn't master the basic thing we need to do. That's exactly why it seems to me that the law should be amended further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78227	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct an incorrect quote by Mr. Korenika, who said about that the legislator did not take care of what those who so far have been doing in animal breeding commercially, which is not true because there has been a delay in the application of the law for 10 years, and that is how enough opportunities and time has been given to allow people to retrain and deal with something else. Well, after all, sometimes people were only hunting, so when there weren't enough animals to go hunting, then they started dealing with something else, so they're gonna do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78229	Replica, a respected representative of Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was actually just trying to replicate when you were talking about goose bumps. Then I will remind you of the fact that it is nothing characteristic, especially for Croatia, but that one of the main culinary export products of France is a cirrhosis liver with a fat infiltration of geese which they produce exactly the same way. By limping them forcibly. So, apparently France sort of solved it with the European Union, right? But we do not seem to have the will to deal with it in any other way than to give up that cultivation of ours, of course, in the welfare of animals. Thank you very much. ... And we will import liver, liver pâté, liver from France yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78231	Replicate response, Honorable Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78232	It's just that someone's interest to import as much food as possible to this country as possible, as the activity shows from day to day. After all, and when we talk about it, and by the way, I'll take the opportunity and the time to talk to my colleague Sočković and about how people are going to get a job and what's easiest, let's all go to the labour market because 10 years if it's enough...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78233	You have a replica on Mr. Rozic's speech not on...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78234	For someone 55 years old, it's too late to reroute and go to a new job, but if it's hard for you to understand, I'm very sorry. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78235	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78236	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State! Let me say a few sentences about the protection of pets, or what this law begins to regulate if I can say so, and that is the question of abandoned animals or abandoned pets. Of course, in one society, as counterpart Picula would say, and in a civilised society where a certain price of civilization should be paid, rules must be laid down on what will happen to abandoned pets. However, it needs to be seen whether everything can be copied from the European Union, since the regulation there is completely different and the tradition is completely different and the conditions are completely different. And we also have to admit that the responsibility of citizens to other citizens, to public spaces and pets is completely different from that of citizens in Croatia to pets, to other citizens and to public spaces. And we can agree that this law does even reregulated that care and protection of pets. However, there is no responsibility in this law for citizens, pet owners to these pets, no responsibility for public space and no responsibility for other citizens who do not have pets. We discussed something about it on the board and I thought that the proposer until the Plenary Session would give some new ideas about it but for me it is totally unacceptable to define at the level of units of local self-government, for example, which public spaces pets can go to and in which public spaces they cannot go to. For example, how to effectively prevent dogs, pets from going to playgrounds and doing what should not be done in the sands. Is it really enough just to say that there is a ban here on holding and treating pets and their movements in a way that threatens the health, safety of other animals and people, especially children? If it's okay. But look what you predicted. The one who does not do what we could theoretically translate now, so someone who takes the dog to make an emergency in the sandbox on the playground can lead him under this article and then de facto endangers the lives of people and especially children. Under the provisions of this law, he would be fined 30 to 50 thousand kuna. Obviously, the promoter did not think that such a way of irresponsibility towards public space falls under this criminal provision. But if that is not the case, then the proposer must provide for an appropriate punishment to deter pet owners from doing so. Unfortunately, the responsibility of pet owners in Croatia is such that they perform their pets in the morning and evening right into public spaces to perform the necessarys, right? What is the possibility of preventing and preventing them from being caught, recorded and initiated by the communal director? What's the possibility of a communal director punishing them in that? One 150 to 200 kuna in a misdemeanor procedure where it's usually all, the whole story goes out of date. Furthermore, this law, if it is indeed intended to protect animals, should have laid down the conditions for holding pets. For Article 48, it refers to the fact that pets must be provided with conditions for keeping in accordance with their needs. Now, where do we get someone who buys a puppy to know what the dog needs to hold him? From the textbook? From popular literature, from something else? Can you hold three dogs or six cats in one garage? Or can't? Are these suitable conditions for holding pets? And then the same article says, "The conditions and manner of keeping dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs are prescribed by the minister." Now, for dangerous dogs, the minister will prescribe what are the conditions of keeping and for non-dangerous dogs the owner will not know in what way the conditions are. If we do not know what conditions are in line with their needs and pets also have physiological needs, then we do not know how we will punish them, because the question is, how will Article 67 apply where, therefore, the fine of 30 to 50 thousand kuna fines of a person who acts contrary to Article 48 therefore does not keep pets in accordance with their needs? If a person performs really in the morning or evening a pet in public spaces in order to perform an emergency, then he does not have the conditions to keep a pet. And that's what this law must define. Therefore, it must certainly define the responsibility of the owner of the animal for fully appropriate keeping it but not in a way that public space is used for its keeping. This law should certainly be prescribed, for example, that this cannot be prescribed by decisions on the municipal order of units of local self-government, that when performing a dog for a walk there must be a broom, a shovel and a bag. Some units of local self-government have bags in public spaces but outside Europe, and this is P.Z.E., you can't appear in public space unless you have a broom, a shovel and a bag. It's a custom with us. What again do you have as a possibility that a communal officer will follow you, hunt you down and punish you? Gentlemen, a mess that remains by using public space in this irresponsible way affects the quality of life of citizens in the local self-government unit. If we really want to pass the Animal Protection Act, then we have to prescribe it inside. It is impossible, for example, that in one city it is an obligation and that in another city it is not an obligation and where it is prescribed as an obligation it is simply inexecutable, I repeat, it is inconclusive to you because municipal order has no authority to prevent anything because their possibilities are such that those who wish to violate the municipal order will be able to do so for sure and certain. And that's all right. It is tolerable to keep ten cats in the garage, it is tolerable to use the public space for the physiological needs of pets and we will examine it all through our fingers. However, when the pet owner is irresponsible and abandons the animal, that is where tolerance ends, but this ceases to be tolerated not by this irresponsible owner but by the local self-government unit. This unit of local self-government must be built, has a legal person who will have shelter or must set up a pet shelter on his own, and according to this law, this pet shelter must have 24-hour surveillance and care, which means that it must have a certain number of employees, that it must have some space, that it must have veterinary care for these pets and animals, and there are drastic penalties. A responsible person or unit of local self-government who does not establish such a shelter will be punished with 30 to 50 thousand kuna. A responsible person who creates such a shelter but who does not meet these conditions or conditions prescribed by the minister and which is the prescribed conditions on what kind of shelter this must be will again be punished by 30 to 50 thousand kuna in the local self-government unit. We, too, are theoretically in a position to have 550 pet shelters in the Republic of Croatia because what our colleague Korenika was saying will be very difficult for several units to agree to have a common shelter because it is simply another new financial obligation towards them. Therefore, I would ask the Proposer to certainly intervene and define the owner's responsibility to pets in a way that says what the conditions are and if the minister prescribes the conditions and methods and the keeping of dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs, so let it be that he prescribes the conditions and methods of keeping pets. And secondly, to make sure that it prescribes provisions on how pets can co-exist in public space in a way that pet owners and pets do not violate the quality and freedom of people who do not have pets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78237	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78238	Thank you, Mr. President. Well here, fellow Mršić states you can't imagine, be careful, in Europe a walk, taking dogs for a walk without a shovel and a bag. I'm now interested in what part of Europe's fellow thinks because we had the chance in Bruxeless to walk and take great care of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78239	What's incorrect in the quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78240	Well, it's an incorrect quote. Because if that were as true as my colleague says, then we'd be clean sidewalks. And not only there, but in a number of European cities, the same thing. It looks terrible. It's worse than in Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78241	Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78242	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me start with Article 52. The constitution, among other things, which says that the animal world is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. It is also said in paragraph 2 that the law lays down the way in which goods of interest for the Republic of Croatia can be used, the powers of the rights over them and the owners and the compensation for the restrictions they are subject to. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must immediately indicate here that some of the restrictions prescribed here by this law are not only limited to ownership and entrepreneurial freedoms of the owner but are of such a nature as to actually create direct and indirect damage by the owner, especially when it comes to production and in this context, I mean, above all, two situations where Article 4 tries to prohibit the breeding of animals for the purpose of the production of fur and Article 4 in relation to point 11 but in fact, in relation to a specific article of the law prohibiting the use of wild animals in the circus and, of course, other entertainment content. It is referred to in Article 53. You see, now you're asking a very serious question. Of course, the question of humanity, the relationship with everything living with us, around us and without us, each of us is a very important issue, and in this respect, it would be the best situation if we could find such substitutes for human needs that would allow in fact no animal species to be endangered but to create conditions and possibly help them to be maintained in space and in time to not die out. But the question is also raised if this is not possible then the issue of economic and social equality and justification regarding a measure is raised. Therefore, if we suggest that animals should be banned in Croatia for the purpose of producing fur, the first question I ask is whether fur is enough or should be added to the production of fur. The second question to be asked is the transitional time, whether in that transitional time until 2017 as it says in the law is enough time for these producers to survive and can carry out and possibly resolve possible losses in all of this. Thirdly, that the Republic of Croatia did not prescribe this law to deprive those owners and producers engaged in certain activities, and not only them, but also how they will tackle the consequences of the termination of such production by losing their jobs and the employment of the people working in that segment. So as much as we can support the idea of stopping this issue, to ban it, etc. So much is asked how the Republic of Croatia can and must allocate funds to resolve this. And this is not just a question of economic, humane, but ultimately of constitutional and legal, constitutional and legal nature but also of social nature regarding the question not only of those who are owners, who are entrepreneurs but also of those who work and live in those areas. Of course in that context is being re-set,... First of all, he thinks of certain types of animals produced by furs related to the Animal Friends Association, especially chinchillas and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is also worth knowing that chinchillas have managed to survive until today, in the separation in South America just when this production opened up, right? And now there's an additional question. Few people know that chinchillas can be exploited in large, large parts so that they can be exploited and exploited by their flesh because it is edible. In such a... The question now arises what happens if someone registers chinchilla production for meat production and by its product through, under this law will normally be able to do so further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Normally it will be able to work further because it will simply produce meat and the side product will be fur that it will sell and solve further. I immediately point out that you are actually giving such solutions that are not at all, are not good at all, and therefore I think that should be fixed, should be resolved, and especially if you want to go to a radical solution then we should actually try to ban some kind of farming and then it should be solved in a way that actually ensures compensation according to the Constitution and the appropriate way. The second question I would like to raise is related to Article 19 and to Articles 18 and 19. It's a question of stunning animals before slaughter or death to use that word better. I wouldn't say "gift" but "death" given that an animal can be killed in a different way, not just by slaughtering, but by actually firing blood to drain and so forth and so forth. Now the question is very interesting. Article 17 states: "The animal must not be slaughtered if before the slaughter is not dazed unless it is about slaughtering poultry and so forth." Then we give extraordinaryly, we allow that part when it comes to slaughtering, ritual slaughter. The same Article 17, paragraph 2, and then in Article 19(4), we say, "If it is not possible to stun an animal's slaughter by avoiding unnecessary pain, suffering, injury, animal fear." Now I find it very interesting to be in a situation where it is impossible to seduce an animal, and at the same time it is possible to slaughter it. Something, it's hard to do, it's hard to do with logic, and in such a situation, it's certainly necessary to realize, in fact, that this exception that's been given a whole series, a whole series of additional possibilities that in themselves don't actually achieve the purpose that the law wants to achieve. Or that part of it is particularly interesting that the conditions for the protection of slaughter and so on the death of animals, now stunning and slaughter are prescribed by the minister. 'Cause look, I think it's the rule book. I think that should give it to actually the veterinary service regulations which is professional, which one should do it? Why should the minister prescribe the conditions of stunning and slaughtering animals? Then on animal experiments, I think we discussed this in both Article 32 and the home Committee on Agriculture because we have warned that animal experiments can be carried out by veterinarians, doctors, pharmacists and so on in paragraph 1, and in paragraph 4, it is indicated that they could not all be, I think that this amendment should be accepted. I'm just talking about that one, that I want to support that amendment. However, Article 29 makes a very interesting, interesting point of view. For educational purposes, experiments on animals that cause pain, suffering and so on must not be carried out. Now he says, "It is extremely possible at higher education and scientific research institutions if necessary for education." And what if it is such scientific research that actually contributes to science or even preventing epidemics, some new diseases and so on. Why is it limited here to education? There are, in fact, higher education institutions and, of course, scientific research institutions involved in other affairs, not only education that can and should be used in this regard, such experiments so that I alone should be corrected for the sake of legal clarity and precision. Still, I can't say everything, so I'm just going to point out some of these questions. The movement of animals. You know this movement of animals and allowing them to have an adequate need to move there should nevertheless be taken into account that in the production of our domestic animals a large number of animals are actually connected. And it is not possible yet without ensuring a good period of time, the transitional period will actually ensure such an economic yard where the farmer, the producer, will be able to ensure the proper movement of these animals. As a result, a transitional period should be made to resolve this until we are actually given adequate assistance not only from the state but also from the International Community and the European Union for the modernisation of our village. The second question of Article 42 where animals are temporarily and permanently placed outside the dwellings must, where necessary, be protected from adverse weather or climate conditions, predators and other... Now watch out, you've got open pastures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the... I don't know in the woods and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do you implement this standard when it comes to such a thing? In particular, this is characteristic of Slavonian forests, Slavonian areas and Posavina where such a situation is from, I do not know of indigenous animals that are located there until certain other situations where it is absolutely necessary to take care of and try to enable shelter and such animals are well, but it is simply not possible in certain situations. So I think that there would be a far more important reference or norm that recommends something and commits someone because simply this binding one won't be able to do it, it won't be possible to implement it. The questions referred to in Article 48 concerning animal reproduction control are quite interesting. This will be very difficult to implement in the work, but it will be even harder to actually implement Article 53. Laws about I don't know, legal provisions that apply to other animals and that's the circus question, you know? Where it is said that in the circus practically forbidden the keeping of wild animals, use in circus and other plays. Homemade as I can. And it's forbidden to perform particularly stalled animals and physical defects and so on. Now, of course when you say use for movies, for everything else, it's all that's not possible in the circus in movies, plays and so on and using with wild animals and now you're asking a question and what if the circus is one of the sequences, sequences of film? Will it be used then? Well, of course it'll be used. In such a situation, something else needs to be opened. It is necessary to protect, prescribe how to protect a wild animal in a circus from unnecessary pain, suffering, torture, and everything else, and in no way rule out the possibility that animals can be shown there. I'm afraid I can't tell the story, but now he's got the law. We should get some more work done. [[Intruder: Too fast to speak then]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78243	Please. Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78244	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to welcome this bill as a significant step towards the current Animal Welfare Act in solving the problem of animal protection. In fact, there are a whole series of examples that we can see around ourselves every day, which more than words can express about the insensitivity of animal owners, their biological needs, not to mention the pain, suffering, injury and torture of animals that their owners consciously carry out over them regardless of whether they are pets, domestic or wild animals. The sanctions against such irresponsible owners are practically non-existent, i.e. they are almost not implemented in practice, so the controversial sanctioning of irresponsible owners is treated as news of the day. About it, he said something about his colleague, Rosic, in his presentation on behalf of the club. I'm just going to give you a few everyday examples. We are all more or less witnesses to the growing number of stray dogs and cats that their owners have kicked out of their homes and simply left. This phenomenon is more pronounced as the urban environment is greater. Such animals, except for various voluntary associations and their volunteers, who are the most common and the only donors are practically no one. At the state level, as well as at the level of units of local and regional self-government, everything remains largely on the declarative support and is only rare and insufficiently symbolic financial assistance. We can mostly only dream of shelters for abandoned animals. Exceptions are individual animal lovers who themselves own an office for this purpose, obtain food and organise care, and in the social community often refer to themselves as eccentrics and weirdos. And pets who serve children instead of stuffed toys, so kittens or dogs draw them to their ears, tails, or limbs to beat them, lock them up in various boxes and crates, or feed them with food inappropriate to them, such as grains for birds or various pieces of plastic toys. This is often seen by parents with kindness and even inciting children to do so. No wonder animals catch their first chance to run off with their heads no matter what. There are frequent cases of taking a pet’s cub, so after a few days or weeks they simply throw it out on the road or a deserted place because the owners suddenly discovered that it requires too much engagement or that the food is too expensive. And nothing to anyone. There's no sanctions. Yesterday when I arrived in Zagreb at the gas station, I saw a truck carrying pigs. The animals were so tight that there was no chance they could move, let alone possibly lie down without choking. You can imagine how you're coming into the air and the animals are stuck in the middle, and the feces and the thirst of animals that I'm not even talking about. It's a daily story. And nothing to anyone again. There's no sanctions. Someone's gonna say it's just steaks, ham and sausages anyway. Maybe! But they too have the right to a more humane relationship and there is no need to torture them further. As far as wild animals are concerned, I just want to remind you of not so rare cases of wildling on highways. For example, a known case of bear treading a few months ago on the road from Bosilev to Split and her cub a few days later. And then nothing. I could name examples for a few hours, but I think this is enough to illustrate the need for a law that will really, not just declaratively protect animals. This law would be a significant step towards that goal, but unfortunately there is no support from the state budget. We've already heard a lot of concrete remarks about the provisions of this proposal, so I'm not going to repeat them. But I will refer to the second paragraph of Article 56, which regulates the establishment of an animal shelter. Given the real catastrophic situation on the ground, i.e. the chronic lack of any shelter, I am afraid that this item can become an additional administrative obstacle as quickly as possible to create such shelters. That is why I have submitted an amendment to allow the survival of the present, even if inadequate shelters until new ones are established in accordance with the regulations of the competent authorities, in order to avoid an increase in the number of stray dogs and cats that may also be a potential danger to the health and safety of citizens. Because they are better and inadequate shelters than none, and we have heard that during today’s debate, what are the costs of setting up and building a shelter, or the daily cost of an animal in an asylum. And in the end, I agree with the criticism of my colleague, Korenik, that the state budget does not require any additional funding, because in such a way this law declares the state as a great protector of animals but again in a foreign account. In this case at the expense of local communities, i.e. units of local and regional self-government. So the state dictates, and heaven finances! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78245	Thank you. Honorable representative Juraj Bitunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78246	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is a good law ahead of us, I would say that the great law and philosophy of this law is I think it is returning to a tradition, a Croatian tradition. In fact, all those people who dealt with livestock at least when it comes to Dalmatian Zagora, Dalmatia, then for a part of the domestic animals from which they lived and who were also working animals had one term not cattle but treasure. I think that term speaks for itself and I think it's an approach to this law, so I'd like to congratulate the Secretary of State and the Ministry on the excellent proposal for a legal solution, one law when it comes to animals. Of course, Slavonia, and Zagora, where I come from, that the joyous fact that the necklace remains and that is a Croatian tradition which, by this legislative proposal, fits into the frameworks of European legislation. I would like to pay attention and say a few words regarding the holding of animals, pets in Article 36. I think one problem that we all face today, given that animals somehow follow people, live together with them, that since today most people live in urban areas, of course, animals become urbanized by living, they become urban living in such places. This means certainly limiting their freedom and it is important to establish a normal relationship I would say on the relationship of a human animal and certainly should be careful to adapt each animal, domestic animals to new living conditions. Article 48(7) states that the conditions and manner of keeping dangerous dogs, which is what I want to say, and possibly dangerous dogs is prescribed by the minister. And I think that this provision of legislation, which will later be governed by the rules of the minister, should be given great attention. In fact, today we heard here in the Parliament where a lot of stories about animal endangerment I would say that we are all witnessing horrible images that are repeated every year, where children, adults, women, it's not just the case in Croatia, out there it's even more common than with us to simply be the most tragic consequences of those terrible images when it comes to the massacre, etc. that happens to certain people. I don't think it's a good idea for such dangerous animals, dangerous dogs or those who are potentially dangerous to live in apartments, to use it, that simply when the owner goes to the elevator without a muzzle and so on. I think there should be a lot of rigorous regulations, rigorous measures, because if in weaker conditions such animals dwell, live, then they become frustrated, so either they increase their aggression by nature or in some way they have some other way call this mental disturbance. My colleague Zeljko Nenadić and I have submitted an amendment relating to animal fighting. I'm competent to talk about it because my family's been doing cattle for a long time. So I know what that means. And we went with the amendment, my colleague Nenadic and I, which refers to fighting bulls. I am in any case personally against fighting animals not to be organized for betting, for any purpose etc. But when it comes to fighting bulls, I don't think even that term is good, that it's better to say it's a competition. It's part of a tradition that goes back in time when all those people who worked in livestock, and used to deal with most of the population, people had treasure during the summer pasture, etc. Then it was always seen whose bull, ox, etc. Stronger. It is therefore a competition in force that has never had any particular consequences, tragic consequences, or dangerous to any animal involved. Therefore, I believe that Article 4(2) of point 5 should intervene precisely in the sense that they are allowed to be exempted from the law. In our proposal, Mr. Nenadic's proposal and me stands apart from the traditional bullfights, perhaps it should be a more appropriate term given what I said in the traditional bull contests. And I think that's the real message of what we wanted to achieve with this intervention in law. And I must mention that it is a resurrection of other traditions, the preservation of other traditions in the Dalmatian region. Namely in the village of Radosic, the municipality of Lečenica has been held for several decades. Then it spread to other places. I'll mention Prgomet municipality, Dicmo municipality. Therefore, for these municipalities and even for this middle part of Dalmatia, this part has become part of the tourist offer, and on the other hand, such competitions are followed by folklore, perhaps long forgotten, so it is an opportunity for the old tradition of the Dalmatian Burn, that part of Croatia to be preserved, preserved, which can be an attraction in the front row for tourists who come from outside, but also for us who have lived in those areas, and I get the circumstances we live in some other environments, urbanized cities, larger cities and so on, means out of Dalmatia or in Split, I don't know either. In any case, I believe that, if the motionor were to reflect this proposal and that, if it were to be understood, without sanctions by the organisers, given that the legal criminal provisions in the bill itself are quite harsh, I welcome them, so that the organisers do not mean and have some problems. I'll repeat, the bill is excellent. The bill of law is good. It is within the framework of European legislation, respects all the traditions that we, as a people, have, starting from Slavonia to the Dalmatian Mountain and I believe that it is a principle, I will repeat at the beginning what I said to the old principle, meaning treasure, and not cattle in some way well-conceived in this bill and I will support it. But thank God I will try to keep this amendment of Mr. Nenadic and I in the law. Thank you very much. Even in that direction, I expect support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78247	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78248	I agree with most of what my colleague said. However, I think that here in this assembly I must still be people who will lead another way of thinking. In this area, in this area of animal protection and this new legislation, we must nevertheless insist on a gradual change in tradition. You know? We have to do this. Otherwise, we come into direct conflict with the basic goals we want to achieve. That's why ritual worship, unprofessional slaughter, animal fights must eventually disappear from our everyday lives. I'll even go one step further, even for me it's ugly to see and to be part of our tourist promotion of animals on the grill, stuffed on a stake as the highlight of our culinary offer. You know? ... No, please nice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's a roast, there's countless other possibilities. I say we can and should go in the direction of some others. ... Gentlemen, I'm only expressing my position here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78249	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78250	I agree with you, absolutely. However, I think you misread what I was about to say and what I said. I'm absolutely against fighting animals. But when it comes to the bull competition, then you need to see it and you need to know that there are no consequences. On the other hand, when it comes to tradition, we should keep tradition, those values of tradition, but also, there are other things going on. Well, this is even an incentive to develop livestock in those areas. That's one more complex question than you think. And on the other hand, we don't care whether in Dalmatia or possibly in Herzegovina I don't know where such traditions exist, whether it will be preserved because it is part of the beings of these people, part of a being that means something in Croatia I would say diversity. It has one of its deeper meanings, and for the first time, at first glance, combine it with the fight of some dogs, and I don't know what bloodthirsty animals are, and on the other hand, I think that if the Spanish were able to preserve and fit into European legislation and those things that I disagree with when it comes to the corridor. And maybe those Pamplona races can pass. I think what you said doesn't question my proposal, at least that's how I realized it, and I hope you'll raise your hand for the... that I suggested. Not me, Mr. Nenadic and I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78251	Yeah, yeah. Dear representative, Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78252	Thank you very much. Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of those laws where there are no too many differences in club discussions or among the representatives themselves on one side. On the other hand, there is an extremely high expectation of this law, perhaps more of the general public, and I would even dare say that than the proposing himself. In fact, this is one of those laws that is very nice to talk about, it can be talked about, it can be absolutely said that this is a step in relation to existing legal solutions, that it is somewhat in line with very broad practice, I would say in the European Union, broadly in terms of diversity. But of course, some of our domestic doubts remain as uncertain as they have been. Answers to some questions when some simulations were to be preceded before certain articles of this law came in this form, they obviously failed. Certain research and examinations as to how realistic it is that the articles and foundations of this law can be applied realistically and whether they will find their application at the time when we bring it in, when it enters into force. I think we're now making a personal statement about it no matter how we talked about this bill, I believe that research would show something else. In fact, because we really believe that if we pass a bill like this next year, we will all behave like this in Croatia from those dog lovers, from those who have domestic animals, from those who deal with the processing of animals, from those who live on the skin of animals, from those who have lived until now, from the processing of any skin, any wool, anything else. Well, of course not. I therefore think that this bill should be discussed in this sense, and therefore I think that on behalf of HSS, Pankretic said that some amendments should simply not be stopped, in no way stop the intensities of this law, stop the harmonisation and the creation of a better quality relationship with animals, I think it is very important and no one reasonable is against it, but that one dynamic should create and complete a vacuum that will definitely arise if we adopt the law in this very form, and we will not respect it. Well, you don't think there's going to be such a rigorous punishment as is provided for in the transitional and final provisions, it's going to be fined 10, 20, 15 thousand kuna if the neighbor reports the neighbor that his duck was shouting when he was slaughtered. They're still competing in whose stronger screams, whines, all one thing. ... Shriek. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I think that although this may seem a little funny and we can make a joke about it, I don't think the law can be passed without in advance doubting that it will be implemented in the same way that the legislator prescribes it. I'm afraid that sanctioning instruments in these cases, if we take into account what they refer to, what areas, where people's structures, are not certain that these sanctions will neither be applied nor yielded results. Because I think we have far more serious legislative proposals that have shown in practice that they have not been applied to the end or that they have not been able to apply to the end despite the desire to do so. How much and how much is Croatia as a tourist country and as a country visited by a large number of foreign passengers, tourists, passersby, business people, as far as it is in this agreement to say man and nature. Is there a difference when you travel in Croatia or when you travel in Austria? In Austria you can see the truth many cows that walk or perform fall directly off the highways, with decorated courtyards etc. So it's really noticeable that there's a larger number of cattle in the view, you can see it. In Croatia, I don't think there are too many cases like this. Therefore, in this regard, it is necessary to seek that as many livestock farming as possible be on the basis of creation, to be on the walk, it is just natural. It's the natural state of things, and I think that's good. What is not good to go into breaking certain traditional concepts both in culinary terms and in terms of lifestyle, but also in terms of how certain animals are used. Why isn't that good? Well, it's not good because it breaks a tradition where people are most sensitive and they're willing to bear sanctions but they won't give up on that tradition. And let's not act like we don't see it right now. Of course, a certain tradition that exists in certain parts of Croatia cannot be ignored now. Someone might say he doesn't like lamb on the grill. But there was a lamb on the grill or lamb cooked or lamb under the roast, I mean, about the lamb and his feelings, to him it's all one thing you know. He cooks, he burns, he doesn't have a different memory. The question is whether he was properly executed. Therefore, we cannot now question the entire traditional nomenclature and the culinary and cultural science on which certain parts of Croatia rest in order to ask that the law should be even more rigorous in this regard. Therefore, I think that, with all of us praising this law together, in terms of its intensities, it would be good to respect certain amendments that are a little more open to this overall matter, to respect those proposed by law and those dealing with certain activities that will be prohibited or not be able to deal with after a certain number of years. These people, in economic terms, have experienced the inability to carry out economic activity by adopting this law. It's a constitutional category. You've banned someone from doing their job. You must either degrade him or find him an adequate second source. You cannot leave it now to be in line with the European, EU legislation on the road. I mean, it's not normal, and that's where you ask the question again, you can have the skin, and you can't have the fur. And the rich, and what's the difference? What's the animal alive if she's lost her skin, and the fur is, who's gonna stay? Therefore, no, but beware, you have countries in the European Union that have banned one part of it, but the fact that the largest fur producers can hardly reduce their responsibility, so to speak, for such a situation. So it's a different practice. I think that the practice of the European Union in this regard as well as in many other cases when it comes to the protection of their traditional values, cultural differences, then the countries of the European Union find a very good answer as an exception to this state of affairs. In Croatia everything is very simple to put under one carpet and we say we have to coordinate it. Well, we don't have to. And we can find our exceptions, and we can bring our cabins down to one suitable position, but protect her and not allow any further dispersion of that system. Not just the cabins, there is a whole series at the level of traditional, cultural and other features that are important to our inhabitants. To these citizens of our country. Therefore, I think that sensitivity should be directed in the same way, we want it to be directed towards a truly different attitude towards animals, but also to find within ourselves a reasonable frontier both in economic terms and in terms of respect for itself, but also in terms of protecting those customs, values that exist in our regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78253	Thank you. Replica, esteemed representative Ivo Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78254	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I think my colleague Markov will agree with me. It's not about this Law of the Lamb, you son of a bitch, June of him is actually this behavior of people. And I think the most important thing in the debate about this law is to question ourselves. So, our behavior during any procedure against animals. They're pets, they're domestic animals, or they're hunting wild animals. So when we actually express our mood about any problem or this problem because the lamb on the roast or the lamb in the roast or it's cooked, it's less important because there's no feeling after the animal's death and after what happens. So during the debate, the first procedure is important, the procedure with the animal. Is it a predation to meet all the conditions for his execution in one way or another? Because inhumane animal behavior is reflected in that old saying that pigs are so good because they're in the cake and they get to eat. I think if we were to agree with that proverb, then we would have to be like the human inhabitants of this beautiful of ours, to be in the Torah, to get to eat and be satisfied with it. That's not it. That is why this Law speaks in a completely different way. Our behavior against animals where we as humans have to expose our behavior, and this is all other irrelevant because it is prepared in one way or another, because a clear diet needs to be done and we are still in a favourable position versus all those other ones who consume animal meat in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78255	And the replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I can really agree almost entirely with what the esteemed colleague Markov said. However, when he spoke of what he actually mentioned in his first presentation, Mr. Doric, it was said that one lamb is exactly the same as whether he is under a roast or cooked or on a roast. Of course it's the same. However, here's my colleague Markov, I just want to tell you something. In particular, in Istria, me as a child at my grandfather's house was never a groom to roast lambs in the oven. There was simply no rhubarb in Istria at that time. I also hold that perhaps in some things somewhere it can be touristly promoted, but perhaps on the other hand somewhere and not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78257	It is, and the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78258	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I absolutely didn't think it was necessary and that it should be almost imperative that all over Croatia be prepared so as to prepare the lambs for the venison. It's a matter of custom and certain ropes that rule. I've been saying that such ropes rule like lambs on fire. We inherited them as they probably will inherit them behind us, and I think there's nothing wrong with that tradition. It's our art as far as we know it and how we know to show it to those who might be consumers of it. So our art is how to sell it to the market. There is far, if you will, a more inhumane way of cooking presentation in various parts of the world that is far below this civilization level, if you will, which is very well sold as a tourist service. Therefore, Croatia should not be ashamed of it, because it turns out that it is almost blasphemous if you say you ate lamb on the grill, rich. So what, I mean, what are we all supposed to eat then what? I think it's unnecessary and we won't get a plus in Europe either.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78259	Yeah. The great dramatist Bernard Shoe once said on a train when a passenger who recognized him noticed that "your book, Mr. Shoe, is not worth anything, nothing is good". And this one said, "I like to eat beef, and what the ox thinks about it doesn't bother me at all." Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78260	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an apology publicly from Mr. Markov, because this is a yes. I think I have a right to that. ... But here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with Assistant Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Well, I'm going on in that tone where I said this isn't the Animal Law, it's the behavior of people against animals. They are pets because they are economic operators, meaning food and tov or the economy in another way. To be used clearly and in hunting. I'm going back to the previous law when we had about livestock. I would rather say that we do not have to coordinate and not to coordinate with Europe and not to rush but to create conditions such as Croatia's traditions and customs of protection, as if traditions and customs were our recognizable password when we enter the European Union. In part, we succeed in this law and do so. But it is my determination that we must discuss this in the national Parliament and, in general, on the basis of all those indicators that we have. In fact, when we talk about a village and a peasant at this time, it is hard for a farmer to accept new obligations, a new cost and an economic sense of burden. So far, the village was a good medium, the peasant himself also a good medium where only his obligations were imposed, where he had to meet certain conditions whether it was during the construction of the farm, the tova, the milking and not saying all this else. Here and again, a new obligation is now being imposed and an attempt at actually new burdens on villages and peasants. It has been said here before that all these regulations have their weight in a way that, during a certain ceremony and so on, I did not want them to be professional services, veterinarians, to be examined butchers and so forth, but we managed to convince the rest of the ministry, so I believe that most of us that our tradition is something that we inherited and that we must continue to pass on that tradition to younger generations. And it's good that even though the authority in this law is regulated by the traditional slaughter of so-called. the pig's or some other rituals such as to say that we do not assume them in European terms, but at the same time everything is not great and great in Europe either. So now that we're prescribing the obligation to keep cattle free, I've also warned the board, believe me, it's not nice or nice either. In fact, free keeping cattle under inappropriate conditions is as dangerous as a relationship. However, in our tradition, at least in our northwest part where the genetic symental is traditionally bovine, where top production is made, it was made right at the point of view of the relationship but the great marm of the holder. Namely, these people were practically all day in the barn and that same cattle and that same medium he was so masculine and careful that he actually gave top-notch results. When we let him go free, when we don't provide him with such a so-called. The hotel conditions he didn't give his top-notch results until the end. And in that sense, I think that we don't have to rush and that the transitional periods that we are now prescribing must be as long, they must be gradual to adapt both cattle in one sense and to have our stockholders ready for it. Because it's hard to imagine in a village that has semi-urban or urban characteristics that we have free-holding cattle and at the same time we have a thousand and two thousand pieces of cattle that are on the stand. So in one hotel so-called. accommodation where everything is at their disposal and where they are serviced in one special way. So I appeal that there should be a lot of understanding and not apply the law to... rather than in the transitional period, perhaps this transitional period may prolong us from being denied because a short period of time could cause great stress because cattle are clearly experiencing stress as well as people and could hardly return them to that production they have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what kind of peasant helps to keep it from breaking over his back? As little commitment as possible to impose on him. Namely, the Lauf stables or the stables of free hold are not exactly a sacred letter and are not the only proper keeping of cattle. Believe me, if we were to go and analyze the service now, it would mean that the livestock, the reproductive powers of the cattle, and all together, would come across double standards. Some claim that the external holding of cattle is for the sake of conditioning, for the sake of it all together, is good. However, if the conditions are not ideal, they are a failure again. We, myself, are personally disgusted by one chance that the terrain where these cows are outside, that they have to be down to their knees in the mud, that not everything is ideally made for the drain and so on, that sometimes the food they consume outside is the sinister that should be and that, while it's gone, it's half-frozen and so forth and we experience it on such farms and we see what it looks like. It's not just the prescription of some garters in that sense, just to say good. So I appeal again to be one gradual transition, one tradition that we have and we have the stable keeping of cattle on the line. Now we've got her, and that's most of the cattle. We have to take care of it. And now I'm going to try only on these asylums for our pets. Since I'm the head of a local self-government, we're really getting bigger and bigger commitments and nobody thinks about the cost of what it costs. So-called I just want to tell the dogs. They made such a lucrative deal when we passed the first law, this law that they began to simply circle the village. When he saw the dog, he easily caught him with that leash, he went into refuge, and here is another day for you. The Municipality of Molve, you have three consumables or whatever you want and you have to pay for it. We had a good two-year job when we simply did it because the law wasn't laid down, it was only in hints, etc. We need to be very careful here because they can't go to their chef, it's got to be a application, it's got to be an order, it's got to be an accommodation, etc., so that's what it's supposed to be about, it's maybe a civilization one liquid that we have to strive not to wander our dogs and cats, but not in a way that companies that start to deal with are the one imposition that we won't be able to handle, so this law might need to work out that procedure and that way regulate it. And let me just say about this law that all the efforts we make are because of us because behavior is a reflection of what nature this is because yet part of this law is also based on hunters who must be sanitizers, who must by their behavior in nature choose those who are powerless not to happen to us and to be all together. And I think it's good to discuss it that way, and this is how I ask the Proposer to consider a transitional period so that we don't have something that we can't fully respect and that we have problems in the field with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78261	Thank you. Replicated representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78262	Very short. Comrade Kolar, here I am publicly withdrawing everything I have said regarding the need to change traditions and customs in this area. I think I'm a little premature with some demands, but there's hope that some changes happen. You yourself mentioned the simentar as traditional cattle in some parts of Croatia. You know that a symental woman is not a Croatian breed. Thus, someone once broke tradition, obtained cattle that were more economically profitable. In that direction, I've been thinking about these other segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78263	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78264	Thank you very much for understanding. I think we're at the same job and working together to actually law and law enforcement is really on one level where we as a species, race or whatever we say are worthy of what we consume so that we don't oppose nature and that people and nature must live together for the good of each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78265	Second replica, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78266	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I volunteered for the replica not to actually oppose Mr. Kolar's particular opinions but let's say he added some thoughts and they specifically refer to what he was saying as he mentioned asylum for pets or pet shelters. The fact is, first of all, this law speaks about the behavior of humans towards animals rather than about how animals should behave. The fact is that the problem of local self-government is quite a lot of funding, taking care of these stray dogs, other pets, and I want to justify it and confirm, for example, the town of Karlovac which is quite specific and specific for the next reason. He is fortunately on a transit route to the sea, however many probably Zagreb but probably others from the continental part of Croatia go to the sea to open the trunk or back door of their car and Karlovac must pay for the care of pets wandering the city and who have no place to go. Here, this is an addition to what Mr. Kolar was saying. And so, just financing it is quite a problem for the local community and not to talk about the conditions and the amounts that those who receive the concession for this job need to achieve, these are rather rigorous conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78267	What, they open the trunk and drop the lambs? The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I don't think it's just a problem of transit. In fact, the mandatory vaccination of dogs in winter is mainly producing this problem and only then do we see the actual number that as pets or guardians, whatever we call them, the house is practically people paying and this is all the other excess that is being released at the time, and clearly the local community has to take care of it this way. I fully agree with you that this should be a community concern as a whole. I don't know which model to apply, that's another thing. However, I am angry with myself several times, which is why we use it many times even though I am aware that God does not allow this article to be applied for the purpose of contagion, for all the transfer, not to mention handcuffs, cat contacts, and all that. But there are ends that don't think about it now, and that's what I'm worried about, which is why some of us have to pay in time, some of us never and never do it, and they don't pay. Now, if the law is consistently applied to everything then we've done a good job, and if not then it's clear that some of us who pay for it and take care of it are in a subordinate position and we're actually spending social resources, let's say now for the benefit of... And these others laugh at us, and let the stray dogs wander away, or cats, or whatever it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78269	Five-minute discussion of the club of representatives of HSS, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78270	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an assistant, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I think that at the end of this debate we need to say a few more sentences on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. Well, here, I'll try to say it, maybe more here in the way I personally experience it, how it's experienced in my hometown, and how my locals are experiencing it. I have to say, first of all, let's clear up a dilemma about general thinking about domestic animals to those we keep for breeding, those we keep for economic purposes, and I have to tell you at home and in my place about cows, cattle are spoken of as treasures. We say it's our treasure. When we talk about it being our treasure, then we imply I would say everything that means and how we take care of that treasure. And I have to say that I can't make any remarks about these people taking care of their existence and how they take care of that treasure and that all these nomenclatures, all these articles, all of what some European Union directives prescribe for our peasant, doesn't mean much to our man because no one will take better care of his wealth than he will take care of himself. And there, unfortunately, I'd have to make a clear distinction between what I think is positive in this law and what I'm most supportive of and that's this concern about pets. I think we've really made a general step here, that we have really good articles here, good regulations that I am very supportive of, and I think that taking care of pets at all levels must be one civilizational, cultural reach for all of us. But I have to say here, in the end, that this second part of concern, here is to put it so vividly about our wealth, is not exactly at the level that we expected, and I'm afraid that in the segment of that, we've become too freaked out with the articles and that no one has made one clear analysis of what all these articles will bring bad for our family peasant economy? In what way they will burden that family peasant economy because I fear it is already overloaded and especially if we put all these regulations to it that I personally think are excessive, that they are too much. We've put very harsh criminal provisions that can be very clear and punish all these inspectors if they go to the country and they start checking out what kind of our peasant is taking care of that treasure? If they apply it with some personal experience and I can apply it since we have very picturesque articles and provisions in that part, then I'm afraid there will be penalties. I'm afraid it's going to go one completely wrong way. So I would appeal again to the Ministry, to the Government to accept our amendments which I would say still maintain something that today is a reality in the Croatian village, yet allow this peasant of ours to remain in one relationship with that treasure that was positive, which was never negative, but enables him to deal with this activity of his that he lives on. And be assured that it is rare that he but always has exceptions that will be dealt with in the wrong way according to what is basic to him. I think he will deal with his cattle, with his treasure, in a way that acts as easily as possible, to bring him the basic question that bothers him the most, which is the existence of our peasant, which is not simple or easy. I think you all know that today in the country and being a peasant is not a simple thing. I think that instead of limiting it with some excess articles, we allow our people to stay in the country, to deal with livestock production because I'm afraid that everything we have today is statistically numbered to warn us about the fact that we have to somehow support them to stay in the country because here I was recently talking about this village is almost half empty. People are leaving the village. Those who remain on agriculture almost cannot live more than that, so if we put even greater restrictions on this part, if we remove some of their traditional values that they have been dealing with for almost centuries, I think we are neither doing the state nor doing ourselves a favor, and I don't think that this is good for the entire Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78271	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We followed the debate closely, recorded and received a number of amendments. Namely, what I would like to point out is that in this law and in this second reading, we have tried to take a step in particular when it comes to the protection of these traditional specificities and I believe that by accepting this amendment from Mr. Bitunjec, so this bull competition is traditional because what is it? If they were able to protect the Spanish as some specificity of their corridors where in a bizarre way these bulls of the tree are killed? We also had a chance to be in Parma the other day where in tanks of coated copper they mix this cheese, which, in our case, it's almost inconceivable under all the legal regulations. However, they have succeeded as a single specificity to protect, as a single tradition, and it is at European Union level as such accepted and why should we run from it? So tradition should not be changed but should be protected and not only for the protection of national identity but for the reason that it brings more income to our producers, greater earnings, especially through a tourist offer. What is, I'm sorry there is no Mr. Caine, he said by this law we want to destroy the village. On the contrary. This isn't any law that's some kind of fashion trend, modernism, or what we've heard of frog-scutting. Namely, this law is necessary primarily for not only these human reasons and animal relations but also for reasons because by entering the European Union by accreditation of our paying agency none of our farms, none of our producers will be able to obtain any kuna incentives unless through this multiple conditionality meets the requirements of environmental, animal protection and quality. Therefore, it is also extremely important for these animal protection criteria to be respected in order for our producers to have key and necessary assumptions at some point to be able to participate in incentives. I also fully agree with what Mr. Markov was saying. So the law will come into force, but the consciousness and conscience of the people who will need it over time is something else. But here I will mention only the example that we had of that bizarreness in Sibenik, where man hung his dog, yes? So he got four months in prison. Therefore, these things can very much be sanctioned, and I believe that in time it will affect everything in this society so that these standards and some humanities towards animals will be brought into order. As for the amendments themselves, I say we consider them and we will see from the debate what is still necessary to correct that we are going with the amendments of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78273	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, maybe just for a little while. What the Honorable Secretary of State said in the context of what Mr. Cain said about this law wanting to destroy the village.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78275	Not that way, fellow Viceroy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78276	Not in that context.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78277	Yeah. You need to correct an incorrect quote MPs, not his colleague on the stand of Agent Cain. [[Intruder: Yes, but]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78278	Please, that's exactly right, Mr. President. It is not a question of wanting to destroy the village but of destroying the peasants living from what they actually produce at home, as Mr. Cain said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78279	Don't do it! I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Animal Protection Act. The Animal Protection Act when it passes, then you'll get your word on it. Oh, there is, you'll get the word. Let's move on. We've got a plate. Minister Cobankovic, come in. Amendment 1, representatives of Jure Bitunjac and Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78281	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78282	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 2nd representative of Tonino Picula. Hold still, please. Well, calm down a little bit! Representative Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78283	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78284	Who's up for that amendment? No one. He didn't get it. Who's the one? [[/Intruder: One, one.]] Oh, it's good. 1 vote for. 3rd representative of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78285	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78286	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 4. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78287	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78288	It becomes an integral part of the law. 5th Representatives Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78289	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78290	It becomes an integral part of the law. 6th Representative of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78291	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78292	Who's in? No one. 7. of the same representatives of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78293	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78294	Who's in? No one. 8 of the same representatives of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78295	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78296	Who's in? No one. The 9th representative of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78297	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78298	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 10th representative of Tonin Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78299	He doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78300	Who's in? No one. 11th Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78301	He doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78302	Who's in? ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No one. Representatives Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar, 12th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78303	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78304	Who's in? No one. 13th Agent Tonin Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78305	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78306	Who's in? He didn't get the required majority, one MP. 14th representative of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78307	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78308	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority, one representative for. The 15th representative of Tonin Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78309	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78310	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority, one MP did. 16 representatives of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78311	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78312	Who's in? It becomes an integral part of the law. It's not, yes, no, it's not that. Comrade Josip Djakić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78313	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, namely I filed with my colleague Mr. Loncar's amendment to this Act, but I don't see that it was included since he was late, I brought him to your office because the clerk wouldn't accept it. It's about banning chinchilla cultivation for 10 years. Since the population that cultivates chinchillas... the loans of the Croatian Defence Ministry as well as other ministries to make family economies and farms and chinchillas are actually one export product, we asked that a 10-year period be deleted from this Law and that further chinchillas can be produced as furskins because we believe that if chinchillas are banned as furskins why sheep should not be banned for 10 years, as well as bodies from which skin is used as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fur, well then everything needs to be banned, and we need to live off the air, not the production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78314	Thank you very much. That amendment was not delivered within a period of time. The amendments could be submitted by the end of the debate. You brought the amendment the second day after the debate expired, you brought it to me there for the secretariat, so we can't vote on it. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar. ... I can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's gone, you can't vote on him when he's given after the deadline, you gave him the other day. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78315	Mr. President, I couldn't give it up in the same day because after the debate, I had to go to another meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78316	That I can't get into. The amendments are also made by the Rules of Procedure and when the chairman reads, the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. You can't get any more words. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 75 votes in favour, 3 against and one abstention passed the final bill along with the amendments adopted. We will vote on the final proposal of the Arms Act later. Dear Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78317	Mr. President, for six months since Mr. Vice Vukov was in the hospital, my Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has not had one member of the SDP, I think it should be, then I would warn you of that fact and I would ask you that since it is... The president must be concerned that the Parliament is working, that you make sure that we have one member, that we get another member on the Committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I'm asking you personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78318	Okay. Thank you very much. It's a matter of committee, I can transfer it to propose a club of a member, but okay, please we'll go. My colleague Lonchar, there's no point in discussing the metrics of this amendment, and it doesn't make sense because it can't be discussed in content, I know that you had an intention, but it's after the deadline, that's, that's the problem. Here you go, but there's no point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78319	Oh, Mr. President, I don't know who put it in, I've warned all the people and writers of this law on that nakarada to limit the 10-year deadline. Well, I'll just tell you some things, and I've seen that in Parliament few people know that. 90% of the people who are dealing with this are Croatian defenders, first of all considered it an additional profession, after which it became an outstanding economic profitable profession. And just one thing, they're calling for Europe. I can tell you that. I spent 20 years as a television journalist working on it. This has been banned only by the UK and Austria, and in Austria and the UK there is almost no such production. If he was illustrated, and I said that the day before yesterday and in this House, it's almost like Croatia passed a ban on banana farming. Well, that has nothing to do with common sense. That's number one. Number two, Croatia is today the largest fur producer in Europe and third in the world. Well, my people, we have to separate domestic animals and pets because we can, someone very well noticed in this House, we can grow these same chinchillas for meat. Then what about the fur? Is the fur going to be a side effect then? I think we need to take care of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78320	Thank you very much, but we can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78321	But here is the most important of these 300 families, these are Croatian defenders, that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78322	We can't discuss this because the law was passed, the amendment was filed after the deadline. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the continuance of the session is on Wednesday with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register and those other proposed laws that are now included in the agenda during the day. And I ask that committees discuss these bill proposals, especially those that go by emergency procedure and those that are e-zakons. We are going to the next item - Proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 567; The Proposer of the Law is the Government. First reading. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Tourism, Agriculture, Forestry and European Integration. State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Zdenko Micic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78324	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, the Tourist Activity Act had since '96. the year when only two amendments have been made, one of which has been made by amending the State Inspectorate Act, and one minor correction. The above-mentioned amendments to the text of the law have seen only minor changes and, despite the above mentioned changes to the provisions of the applicable law, it has been assessed as appropriate for the sake of legal certainty to adopt a completely new law and a changed name because the theory does not know the concept of tourism activity as a closed set of... service and relationship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. in the extreme obstacles to the free provision of services in the section relating to the provision of tourist services of natural persons, citizens of the liberators of the office. The current Act on Tourist Activity requires that some of these services can be provided exclusively by Croatian citizens, that it is therefore necessary to delete the conditions of Croatian citizenship for the provision of tourist services in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union. In particular, compliance with European Union rules through public legal protection, respect for the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relationship which regulates the contract on organised travel. Also, curbing the gray economy, working on black i.e. creating conditions for higher employment, protecting competition and facilitating the business of service providers, protecting consumers as users of tourist services, developing specific forms of tourist offer and too little violations and penalties. The fundamental changes and changes in the law are therefore to delete the conditions of Croatian citizenship for providing tourist services to natural persons of citizens for whom it was a condition. Citizens of the Member States of the European Union, or other countries, will be able to provide these services under the same conditions as Croatian citizens. Enabling the organisation of excursions to schools and other educational institutions in the function of performing their basic activities. Enabling public institutions that manage protected areas of nature, providing tourist services for the purposes of the area they manage and the spas providing tourist services for health tourism under the terms of the prescribed Act for the provision of these services. Regulation of services that include sports-recreative or adventure activities, mandatory use of an authorised tourist guide to tour tourist sites. The definition of tourism as a whole is given, and the Minister for Tourism is authorised to prescribe a list of tourist sites per county, with the previous opinion of the Minister in charge of Culture and Protected Areas of Nature. The Institute of tourist guides of escorts is also being arranged instead of the current tourist escort who will be able to pass a professional exam at the higher school and for the territory of the Republic of Croatia and abroad. Provision of additional conditions for the Head of Business, i.e. Three years of employment in the relevant jobs, and prescribing obligations to a travel agency, i.e. the package arrangement, conclusion with the insurance undertaking of the liability insurance contract for the damage caused by the passenger by failure, partial fulfillment or irregular fulfilment of the obligations relating to the package arrangement. Allowing tourist guide associations to organise and intercede in providing tourist guide services for their members, selling trips organised by shipowners without the establishment of a tourist agency is allowed right next to the boat's berth. The same applies to tourist agencies if they are sold through their intermediation, and no sale and booking is allowed, booking outside of a water facility or a place directly next to the boat's berth. Physical persons who are not craftsmen, or merchants, can no longer provide services in nautical tourism to rent boats, skippers services, and other tourist services such as the rental of sandolins, sailboats, sailing boards, bikes, water baths and skis, umbrellas, deck chairs and the like. The provision of tourist services in ski economies is not conditional upon the provision of catering services in accordance with the Household Activity Act. In addition, higher fines for violations are prescribed, in particular for the illegal pursuit of activities or the provision of services, and the obligation to coordinate the business of tourist agencies except as regards the employment of a business manager within one year, and natural persons within two years of the entry into force of this law. The consequences that we expect by adopting a new law are the harmonisation of the law with the acquis of the European Union, easier application and understanding of the law, greater professionalism and raising quality in providing services, reducing the grey economy of working on black, increasing the state budget and income, facilitating the business of legal and physical persons, further developing special forms of tourist offer, better protection of service users, greater respect for legal provisions and greater employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78325	Thank you. Committees legislation, tourism, agriculture and forestry, European integration. I'm opening a debate. For the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78326	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, a colleague from the government. The IDS Club welcomes the adoption of the Tourism Service Act and we would like to believe that the discussion under this first reading proposal will greatly contribute to the adoption of a final proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism complements this proposal and creates a way to contribute greatly to the progress of tourism as a whole. Namely, if the basic issues to be regulated by law are the provision of services in tourism, entities capable of providing services in tourism, the obligation of entities providing services in tourism, conditions for providing services in tourism, the procedure for establishing conditions for providing tourist services, special forms of tourist offer, tourist services for non-traders and craftsmen, etc. And if the consequences resulting from the adoption of the law are greater professionalism and the raising of quality in the provision of services, the harmonisation of the law with the acquis of the European Union, to facilitate the application and understanding of the law, to reduce the grey economy and work on black, to achieve an increase in the state budget, to facilitate the business of legal and physical persons, to further develop special forms of tourism offer, better protection of users of services, greater respect for legal provisions and ultimately more employment, then this law is very welcome and I do not think we have any doubt that the Law on the provision of tourism services in tourism is absolutely necessary. I believe that in this first reading parliamentary discussion, we will warn of the shortcomings of this proposal and that we will complete this proposal with quality proposals in order to finally get a good law. I will refer only to some articles that I may feel are quite important that we can say a few words immediately, and of course, after the first reading and in the discussion itself, it will very much be coordinated. If we take an article 5 of the terms used in this law, tourist agency, traveller, package arrangement, excursion, tourist unit, but I also think of what we have consulted our people on the ground and tourist organisations on the ground, it seems to me that there is a lack of travel organiser to be included in the amended package directive of the European Union. Therefore, the organiser is the person who sells or offers for sale at least one of the services that makes the package arrangements on his behalf or through intermediaries under its real control and which allows access to other services that make up the package arrangement. Furthermore, in Article 6(1), sports clubs and alliances, trade unions, cultural arts societies, pensioners' associations, mountaineering associations, etc. Associations, in the following text: "counsels" can do performances, can organise travel, package arrangements and excursions exclusively for their members for up to two days, including up to one night, in order to achieve their objectives and tasks prescribed by the Statute of the Association. In the second paragraph of the Association, they may arrange a trip from this first paragraph only occasionally and without the purpose of obtaining a profit. I think that in this case we should define what it means occasionally, in which the number of trips per year is done and whether that number refers to the entire legal person or to each individual business unit. Furthermore, associations undertake to organise travel only use means of transport in which passengers and luggage are provided. We believe that there is still a need to add accommodation facilities here with means of transport. To charge services through a single-night travel account, with an insurance undertaking to enter into a liability contract for damage caused by a passenger by failure to meet, in part, or in an unrealised manner, the fulfilment of obligations relating to unpaid travel and the return of funds to unrealised travel passengers. Furthermore, the travel organisation, again talking about the same associations, must report to the competent administration of the State Inspectorate's Department at the headquarters of the Association no later than three days before the start of the trip. We believe that it would be good for the travels referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to offer passengers a package of insurance and to provide funds for the return of a sick passenger, i.e. to provide funds for its return. So that I may not be entering each article individually, I believe, once again, that the IDS Club has a positive position in this regard, and I hope that certain legal solutions must be changed for the purpose of putting into legal frameworks so far unregulated and the services present, i.e. by abandoning those services that no longer correspond to the development of the Croatian economy. Therefore, the IDS Club supports the adoption of this law and we believe that we will contribute to the second reading very much to the progress of the proposal, so the Law on the provision of services in tourism and thus the progress of tourism as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78327	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. He's gone. The club loses its word. SDP club, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78328	Thank you very much, Mr. President. State secretaries with colleagues and colleagues and colleagues. Here in the introduction, Mr. Secretary of State explained the intention, the purpose of drawing up this new law, which was in fact almost except for several elements to which the same as the existing Act on Tourism Activity was passed in '96. A year. At the very beginning, he would stress that the SDP club in principle accepts such a law as a first reading. However, we have several serious objections to some articles of this law in the club and would pray that until the next reading, then, until the second reading, the law is seriously considered to be as high - quality and practical as possible. In Article 2 of this Act, the legislator defines the fact that these are services in tourism such as the provision of services to agencies, tourist guides, tourist guide escorts etc., etc. Furthermore, the tourist agency's services are particularly highlighted. Therefore, in Article 7 of the SDP Club, there are serious objections to the point, i.e. points 5 and 6 where the Institute of Obligations of Intermediary Agency in Nautical Tourism Services is required. It is therefore impossible to sell charter services or services of nautical tourism without an intermediate agency. This is what we consider to be an intrusion into, therefore, imposing intermediaries, limiting mediation, and we believe that one partner relationship should be established between shipowners and travel agencies, so it is not an obligation but a partner relationship, because you will admit that, that it is unacceptable, we can also pass it on to hotels, the same other catering facilities that they cannot at fairs, or that they cannot sell, negotiate their services without agency mediators. So we have to clear this up until the next one, until the second reading, otherwise we feel that this law is not good in that part. Furthermore, we are well-designed by the agency, so the service provider. It is worth mentioning that service users are provided with possible adverse consequences, etc., etc. So we don't have any serious objections here. The law in Article 26, therefore, further defines tourist guides, tourist guides escorts, tourist animators and tourist representatives, and there are also certain doubts relating to the observations of the association of agencies, so associations of agencies, travel agencies which, in essence, and their observations, consist in the fact that they should be, should be more controlled by institutions, so institutions, societies, sports companies, etc. which can directly provide services in tourism, to prevent possible abuses, so in that part I think their observations should be well considered and a better definition of tourist guides, they suggest that tourist guides be defined in three parts, so tourist guide and local tourist guide and travel companion. So those remarks should be well considered by the second reading and eventually included in the law in order not to, as I say, be as good as possible. Especially on this law let's say harshly round Croatian Association of so shipowners. They made a lot of remarks about this law, so I would read it. The SDP Club considers that they are largely justified and that the legislator should also seriously consider them and the essence of all these comments would be approximately the following: First, they require that shipowners themselves can sell and advertise their services at fairs and sell also charter services through a booker, i.e., as has already been said at the outset to establish a partnership relationship with the agencies rather than a mandatory relationship that the shipowner can sell his services exclusively through the agency. We believe that this remark is justified and that the legislator should take it seriously and put it into law. Furthermore, in order to better define a modern way of providing services, it is primarily thought about the network, so via the Internet, online bargaining, so to define a more modern approach to selling these services themselves. Next, the costs of adjustment in the new law should not fall on existing registered entities in tourism that are already operating in accordance with this law, but should, for example, by means of the Ministry's website to obtain forms and not actually fall on them. And the obligation at the end of the minister, in the adoption of the rules, so the regulations under this law, to consult the Croatian Chamber of Commerce before the adoption of the rules. Here are mostly the basic remarks of the SDP club. However, I would refer to one remark which, one fact that introduces this law, which is that, in order to deal with these services, therefore, by dealing with the services of citizens, persons, citizens, so not legal and natural persons, but also by citizens and their provision of services in tourism is equated entirely with the rights of foreigners. It is therefore a complete liberalisation of the activity in this segment. So a stranger in Croatia as a citizen, I stress as a citizen, according to this law has the same rights as a Croatian citizen. It was the same thing that happened to us in the Household Activity Act, where a citizen, therefore a foreign citizen, I stress that a citizen has the exact same rights in renting private apartments, rooms, as well as a stranger. I am not sure that this is the best solution at this stage let me put it this way, the development of social relations in Croatia, because in such a way we are indirect, and perhaps even directly encourage the apartmentisation, or the construction of apartment settlements on our coast, and in the end, it can hypothetically happen to us that by encouraging these liberal relations in this sphere, it will be built so that it is crowded by foreign citizens and our hotels, then Croatian hotels will no longer have anyone to host. It's actually the most important news of this law to me, and I'm afraid it's actually him and for all that, it's been passed. Finally, for the objectives, the objectives that are sought, i.e. the consequences of the adoption of this law, which is the harmonisation of the law with the acquis of the European Union. I'd have a little problem with that. There are other solutions in the European Union. For example, there are more conservative solutions in Austria, so it is not exactly how it says here that it is fully equated. I say in the European Union today there are different, more conservative solutions. The goal of increasing the state budget is not sure that it will be quite so, so it can possibly be through penalties, facilitated business of legal and natural persons unless these remarks are adopted by the Association of Croatian Travel agencies, Croatian Shipowners' Association, I do not think that this thesis is standing, that there will be a development of special forms of tourist offer. I think that thesis is dubious, and to a higher level of employment very questionable. Until the second reading of the SDP club, it considers this to be a good basis for regulating this overall activity. I think that, with the inclusion of these remarks relating primarily to the observations of the Croatian Shipowners' Association and the Travel Agency's Association, it can be made that this law is better than what is now proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78329	Thank you. There's one correction. Mr. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said the owners of water facilities cannot make contracts without the establishment of a tourist agency. No, that is not true, because paragraph 3 clearly states that, from paragraph 2 of this Article, a legal and natural person may, on a water facility that is categorized as a water object of nautical tourism, organise excursions, enter into contracts and implement them on that water facility without the establishment of a tourist agency if it is registered to provide such a servant. So it's contained though, defined. The second question is the presentation at the fairs, that's something else. But without the establishment of a tourist agency he can make contracts but on that water facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78331	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78332	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here in front of the Croatian People's Party Club, first of all several general observations, i.e. general assessments. First of all, when a man reads the Law, he will see that about half of the content of the Law refers to tourist agencies and tourist guides. 50% of the text quantum. I don't think that's good already, and he's already saying something. We must further say that it is relatively correct to mention some Croatian specificities, some of our comparative advantages such as nautical tourism. A certain area of nautical tourism is given as well as a rural and family economy, one segment of agro-tourism. Very little space is given, just a few dozen sentences, sports recreational, or adventurous tourism, and it is on one take-off. And just mentioned literally just mentioned, there are no segments of health tourism and cultural tourism decommissioned at all. This is where Croatia, colleagues and colleagues, can give very, very much. Unfortunately, here it turns out, if you read Article 3 above, that the first paragraph states who provides all the services in tourism, that in this first group they are certainly not these health institutions or cultural institutions that are not well. It's not good. They belong not in the second row, not in the third row, they fall in the front row. I would just like to, and I think we all agree, take the thought out that we must fight hard in this assembly to keep tourism in the triangle between the hotel, the inn and the beach. It's not enough, it's something that could have been tolerated in the '60s, the '70s, but today definitely not. In Europe, most European Union countries making good money from tourism, one 20%, so around 1/5 of their incomes come from the category of cultural tourism. And Croatian culture, Croatian cultural heritage, the historical heritage is absolutely not lagging behind by anything and it is certain that it is some percentage that should be our ultimate goal and therefore we are rebelling against such a relationship here. In fact, colleagues and colleagues, if you've had a look at our brochures on the history of tourism in Croatia, how did Croatian tourism begin? Well, he started out as a health tourism. Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians opened clear institutions, brought their asmaticists, their patients primarily on airways, and so began the story of Croatian tourism. I'll tell you that, and I think it's important to say here, I'm very sorry that there is no Minister of Health here as well as the Minister of Culture, as well as the Minister of Finance, because you have to sit together and arrange what belongs to these health services in health tourism, which is not. Where the VAT is 10% and where he's not 10%. It's important to start that story. We need to open it very quickly and make progress very quickly in that story. The European Union will not prevent us from using our comparative advantages. No way. However, they will appreciate that we have made a step, that we have recognised these advantages, that we are offering Europe these advantages and that we are clearly considering them. I will tell you as a doctor, for 15 years now, children asmatics from Slovakia are coming to the Primorje-Gorski County. Their stay in Croatia pays one health insurance fund. These are children who are daily on therapy, who are stabbed daily to clear the airways, so that children can normally breathe. When they get to shore, it takes them three to five days to get them out of therapy completely. They're completely off therapy. So, what do these kids in valotherapy get? Nothing, they get the sea, they breathe fresh air, they enjoy sea water, right, and the doctor has to be there in case anything happens. This must therefore take place under the control of specialists, but the effect of just inhaling seawater and this micro-environment is fantastic. After these children return to Slovakia, they are without therapy until, on average, New Year's Eve. It's only after that that they start getting medicine again. Their parents do not allow anyone in the health fund to think about sending them until they grow up next year, because when children grow up, they are clear and wider airways, and the interference is less and less and less over time. Therefore, it is such a pressure because the results are evident and clear, effective, and nothing these children get on than what? What God has given us. So it's not some chemo therapy. But it has to happen under the control of specialists in special hospitals. That's why I'm sorry that the valosotherapy isn't here. The same goes for colleagues and colleagues, manager's whores. The manager of nothing but therapy, accompanied by cardiologists, is burdened, relaxes, certain exercises, no medical therapy, but one professional control of the body's recovery in a physical sense so that even the psychological efforts later would be easier for that category of citizens. And countless similar examples. Massage. Why would a massage at the spa be... tourism, and in valotherapy it wasn't health tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't figure that out. No one can understand that. Also, colleagues and colleagues, with cultural tourism. Same story. In my neighborhood, the Vinodol region was born many giants. Klovic, here we have Clovic's court, in Vinodol you have no sign of any house, no house, no family, no story at all, no attempt to find a clue to that man. Pancic, I'm sorry, Minister of Culture, these are, in my opinion, monuments of the zero category. Josip Pancic, the biggest biologist we've ever had, discovered dozens and dozens of endemics, his house completely fell down, collapsed. You know? There's thunder coming out of her, no one's worried. Baromic doesn't know how much better he's been. In the town of Strance in Vinodol, Triblje, the richest site of the 10th century Croatian jewellery was discovered. Instead of the curators of all our museums doing castings and our tourism finally getting the original souvenir, we forgot all of this and we reduced the tourist offer and services between the agency and the guide. That's not enough for us, we would really ask you, come on, agree, let the Ministers of Tourism, Culture, Health, Economy, Finance sit down and let them agree. Which is where it belongs because Croatian tourism certainly deserves a lot more attention than it has ever received. Here, I hope that by the second reading this law will be substantially amended and complemented and that we will be able to say that Croatia is able to provide much more quality tourist services to Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78333	Thank you very much. It is next to the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78334	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! So right now I want to say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club that we support this Law on the provision of services in tourism for a lot of reasons in our opinion. A concrete bill that is before us finally solves some open issues and introduces order into the field of tourism or the provision of tourist services. In addition to this law, we are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, it will allow for greater professionalism and quality raising in the provision of services. It is clear who, where and how it can provide a tourist service, and it is clear what conditions it must meet in order to obtain permission or permission to provide tourist services. The implementation of this law will bring about a clear reduction in the grey economy and work on black and, consequently, an increase in revenues in the state budget. It is not negligible that users of tourist services will be better protected from fraud in this area that we are aware of. The obligation of the provider of tourist services is correct, comprehensively inform the user of the content of the services they provide. I will specifically refer to the articles relating to tourist guides. For example, in Article 27(2), the tourist guide should have at least medium professional equipment. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club think that we should really consider if we are already talking about greater professionalism and raising quality in providing services that should nevertheless put a higher threshold for tourist guides and be at least a higher professional cook. So, to increase the threshold by one degree here quality and professionalism because we think that really guides should be people with a significantly higher level of education. We also talked about citizenship liberalisation. So we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club hold that in this alignment with the European Union, then we need to see in fact how it was settled with them? And they have decided that in the European Union a professional examination for a tourist guide can be carried out by a person who has the citizenship of the European Union. We therefore consider future candidates for the European Union that it would be good for this law to leave a provision on citizenship in such a way as to make it a condition for the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and for the citizenship of the European Union. So, this is our proposal on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, and in this way we will resolve all these doubts because we really believe that if this condition were not put in place, that it would indeed be pre-liberalised or too open the labour market in the area and we do not think that it would be desirable at this point. We also welcome the special definition of tourist sites and localities as special units that deserve to be interpreted by those who actually have enough knowledge of these same respective units. Finally, this bill and due to the criminal provisions will certainly result in greater compliance with the legal provisions, although we should consider in particular one case on behalf of tourist guides, several of them who suggested that the wearing of the badge not be or not wearing the badge of a tourist guide should not be so strictly sanctioned. They suggest one, some minor punishment between 500 and one and a half kuna, and some 200 kuna on the spot. So to see, however, that this social category is being invested. Someone can really forget the negligent badge, there's no reason to punish him so severely. And in the end, it is quite certain that this law will also bring more employment because it will define clear ways, in which way in this field of work there can be actually a greater number of interests and employment. Of course, this should all be connected to school institutions, from higher schools, higher and secondary schools, so that it should actually work in a way that connects other ministries and other institutions. I would briefly just look back on what I just heard from the HNS Club about cultural tourism. I can agree in part with that thinking, but I think that since it is institutions that operate on a completely different legal basis, then I don't think they belong, they still don't belong in this Act on providing tourist services because we would unconsciously bring them down to something they run away from. Why? I'll say it specifically. For example, a Berlin Philharmonic is certainly not an institution that provides tourist services. But one Berlin Philharmonic is a world-class ensemble that attracts many tourists to Berlin to hear the same Berlin Philharmonic and their music. Furthermore, it is not considered that such institutions are being treated as exclusively a tourist product but it is absolutely certain that they must be an integral part of the offer, tourist offers that should be taken care of by those who actually provide a tourist service and those who are engaged in the tourist offer. Because we would really be in danger of some institutions that are extremely important and important to us as HNK or any orchestra or any theatre in our country, watching exclusively through the prism of providing tourism services, and that would indeed not fit our aspirations or our goals of these institutions. But they as part of a tourist offer certainly include and actually present our culture to the world absolutely yes. This one compound should be found but not in a way that they are incorporated into these laws because I say they are especially functioning by special and other laws and they have their own rules. Interest others in our culture yes but in one different way. Here, I once again point out on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club that we support this bill that will really put a lot of order in this market where it really should be and I expect you to accept these suggestions that I made on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78335	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78336	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, Mr. MP said several incorrect allegations, but I think this is the most dramatic when he said that the implementation of this law will result in a higher income in the Republic of Croatia's budget. This is incorrect only if he thinks of drastic punishments or penalties that increase dramatically in this law. Only if that's what you mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78337	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78338	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is unquestionable that the proposal of this law is long awaited and that at a professional level it raises doubts, dilemmas, different views which are quite natural when it comes to the interests such as they are in the context of tourism, around it, in it and, as with any activity, economic activity there are various participants in this traffic, in tourism they are broad, there are very many. It's hard to locate them in time. They spread very incorrectly and year after year we are witnessing new participants in tourist transport if I may call it that. Since 96 years of tourism activity, the law of course has become obsolete at both technical and technological level, which is perfectly natural. And the reason for the adoption of this law lies in the fact that the Republic of Croatia has made commitments within the meaning of Appendix A or compliance with the legislation of the European Union which is necessary and which was to take place in the second quarter of 2006. In the title of the proposed law, there is a part of the profession that considered the Law on Tourism Activity, which was adopted in 96, not appropriate. There are also today those who hold it appropriate, but I think we can agree that the law in the form of services in tourism is the widest possible concept that can be acceptable and that can cover all the width that we have at this point in tourism as a market. This law has not yet defined everything there is, but it is well on the way to align between the first and second readings and these needs and it is good because of course there is a problem with classification and classification of activities. The national classification has its own network that should also be developed and modified because it is rigid at this point versus the bill but I think it can be done. The very content of the law at this point, of course, has taken over a huge part or 50% of the existing provisions of the law, but it is normally well respected by the provisions of the European Community Directive since 13 June '90. the year on the tourist package arrangements, and in this sense he took a step in that part by trying to define two things from Article 7 and further which have not been clearly positioned so far. The law also specifically defines the work and working conditions of passenger travel agencies, meaning tour operators and passenger agencies. The proposed law also provides for certain liberalisation and the extension of the scope of natural and legal persons who can provide services in tourism are those within associations, schools, institutions in culture, cooperatives, craftsmen, health centres and natural persons who are not registered as craftsmen or traders of individuals. Those remarks or findings that the Croatian Tourist Agency presented on the board and which colleagues heard and which the travel agency association provided for us at the HSS Club are legitimate. They simply protect their activity, their members and their members should be properly thought about. Of course, no structure should be given a monopoly position. I think it's very important. In Croatia lately, the less and less tourist agencies of travel organizers and the more receptive those who receive, the ones who already enter Croatia in some way record. That is why it is good that this law has nevertheless worked to correctly define the relationship between travel organisers as tourist agencies and those tourist agencies that are clean intermediaries in the business. Croatian travel agencies' associations warn of some things they hold in order to introduce, clearly define, better lay down. This primarily refers to the term package arrangements where they consider it necessary to prevent the package from dealing with those persons or natural or legal persons who are not competent and who are not travel organizers, while clearly thinking about various associations, public institutions, health facilities, sports associations that organise the stay of their members, so let us call it that they last more than two days and therefore make up a package of arrangements. We at the HSS Club hold that it is also necessary to reconcile the views of institutions, health resorts, if you want retirement associations and all those who find it within their form a way to go one, two, three, four or five days on vacation, to visit but in a way that they must not do so for the benefit. And that they must not be used in the usual form of presentation of sales and marketing of these products. So they can't do it for someone else's account on condition that they make an economic advantage of it. And I think it's a formula that should be reconciled by those that I listed as a public institution, sports societies and others, but also by tourist agencies that have their rights to compete in a market game and to achieve their economic benefits. What is quite clear in the law is when it starts from the very beginning, from the general provisions to the point 2 of the travel agency, item 3 of the tourist guide, tourist guide companion, tourist animator and tourist representative to point 3: Tourist services in special forms of tourist offer. Namely, I'll first look back at point 4. Tourist services in special forms of tourist offer for the simple reason that there is actually one target category for us at the HSS Club that should be activated by this law. Because so far we couldn't if someone asked us as legislators where nautical tourism is? We couldn't exactly locate him and answer whether he was in this sector, in that sector because he was so intertwined with various ministries that it was very difficult to find a coordinating role to run the team, lately, I wouldn't even call him a special form. I think that even in the last few years he has struggled to have his own place as they have hotels today can be almost certainly with certainty regardless of what the statistics we read say, he can identify himself with a stable form of tourist services, providing tourist services because he grew up from those of the others who are here from 1 and beyond because they are not simply all numbered. In this part, there is also the proposal proposed by the HSS Club to consider it, which is that under this point, it is necessary to define fully clear, accurate, consistent and detailed terms and methods of engagement in the following areas: 1st medical and health tourism, wellness tourism, rural or green tourism, hunting tourism, adventure active tourism, diving tourism, cultural tourism, transit tourism, congress tourism as the last. These are the forms that are equal to us and which should find their place in this chapter solely for the reason that the gray domination that unfortunately exists in these forms of providing tourist services today is stopped, but also to raise the level of quality and to create from these special services in tourism a single Croatian serious brand, a serious product that can be, which in the nature of its content already is, but unfortunately it needs to be more clearly recognised and there is no reason why we should not come to a common point of view which I think is not even a profession of doubt because it represents truly one common interest. I have to say that medical tourism, a colleague said that it all started with him, we can say that and so it started with hospitality. He was the first form, the first step in tourism. This hospitality appeared as threatening tourism. It is clear that in some parts of Croatia different types of tourist services have been recorded, but in any case we can agree that this form of tourism in Croatia is almost unrecorded at this time. You can't find it anywhere, you can't find it in any serious brochure based on which to continue to promote it. So I have to say, frankly, there's one huge resistance to healing centers to call or health centres to fully activate this material. There was one government initiative that was to be given through a particular strategic document on health tourism, which unfortunately could not see the light of day. He was ordered a long time ago, he's 5.6 years old from an institution that was supposed to make it as a background, align it with the medical chamber, but unfortunately there it is, it's stuck there. And these other forms of tourism, in particular, would be apostrophe of rural or green tourism which in our neighbouring countries is not only recognizable but has fought for the position that brand is in its country and that it is no longer accounted for under quotes and not under others but represents one very serious activity and I think that Croatia can absolutely find its interest and can give, can give an adequate answer. Why is it necessary for these ten forms of tourist services to be particularly apostrophe? Why is it good for a legislator to count them in articles? It is good to know what they are and how this activity should be done. Those remarks, which relate to Article 7 and which the shipowners make a certain exception, which we welcome. I think we should expand as far as these boaters are concerned and that, why would they advertise exclusively in front of the ship? Why can't we do it anywhere else? Why limit their space and give someone else? I mean, in that sense, we can't allow those monopolies. Secondly, when you want to set up a travel agency, how will you comply with the regulation, with the special regulation that you should apply the applicable permit? I mean, I know I should, but she's gone. And I know we won't even... Five months to create conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, as far as passing an expert exam. I'm afraid that's not clear to me at all. I graduated from the Hotel College and the entire professional line, and I had to take a professional exam with my college colleagues, and I took it in Split. So did I learn something, or did I, I guess, at the very university that deals with this activity, create a basis for being able to deal with tourist intervention? The other thing is, it's not good. So far, we've had the professional training of guides within the Associations of Professionals, and now we're giving to higher education institutions that have no idea about it. They don't know anything about it. So you know what, what's supposed to be, what's an animator's job? Well, he's being born. You can't create him. An animator is a man who will simply be very difficult to create through higher education. You can put it in certain frames, but it is simply a man who is destined for a very good communication, broad communication, communication in which he uses three, four languages, etc. Also, it is unclear in Article 15, which means the concept of its own means of transport, whether it is and the means of lying, whether it is its own, is very questionable from that aspect whether or not it is. I think it's good to explain that. I would not now quote all the articles that should be more detailed about them, but I think that we have enough time between the first and second readings to really come from this law to come to a law that will serve everyone who works in tourism, and that the profession in that sense should also make their contribution to be clear, co-existent and manifest in time and time, and now it is between the first and second readings and thus make a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78339	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. He's gone. Then Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78340	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives, respected representatives of the government. Well, I've watched reading this bill from two perspectives. One is a user of services in tourism, and the other is a representative in the Croatian Parliament who wants to protect national interests in this activity and immediately to say the general wish of this law is that the Croatian market for services in tourism is liberalised or in other words to open the European Union market. This is the goal of this law, and from that point of view it should be observed whether it is good or not. Whether it is in line with the European Union or not, it is a formal issue. So it's a formal-legal alignment with acts aquis communitaire. The main question here is whether the Croatian tourism offer of services in tourism is qualified for the European Union market, for competition. If so, if we've trained her welcome to this law. If not, and if we have not qualified the Croatian tourist offer in tourism, then it is a danger because stronger in the market wins and eliminates the weak. It's a game of competition. It shuts them down, so someone would have to tell us what we did and as long as we arrived at the competitive raising of Croatian service providers in this activity. I'd like to say right away, here in this open market, I'd like to protect the economic interests of tourism first. What a colleague, as a representative of the HDZ, has proposed in order to introduce the amendment that the provision of these services can be done by citizens of the Republic of Croatia and by citizens of the European Union simply does not stand. Because neither are citizens of the European Union, it is known to you that the European Union calls itself a space of freedom, security and justice, and that there is no citizenship of the European Union, and if that is so, it would mean that citizens must first if cumulation is one and another citizenship to provide services. That's not possible. It's not real, and that's why we shouldn't talk about it. There may be something else that would not be on a discriminatory basis to predict that providing tourism services at least for some form of services such as renting or boats or this must have a residence in the place where it happens. Speaking of which, the law even interferes with the concept of residence and residence, let’s say in an article, I will now say without delay which one says that the companion I think is a companion may be given to a person who is listed in Article 38. “Responsible office towards residence or residence”. Which means now either a place to stay or a place to stay. This Regulation shall enter into Tourist guide because tourist guides can stay in one place, it is his place of residence, and has a place entirely elsewhere. So he needs to know. Then, it is said here that a person who wants to deal with tourism services must have a business capacity. So he would have to prove his business ability. Business ability is a presummation chase. So that law is supposed, and if it doesn't have it it has to be proved that it doesn't exist. The law stipulates that those who demand to perform tourism services must prove themselves capable of doing business. As a lawyer, as well as as a representative, I am bothered by both transitional and final provisions. There is even outside the legal profession one conclusion of this Croatian Parliament, where the conclusion is literally given to the representatives of the government and the legislators, that one law cannot change two laws. The final provisions of this bill propose to amend two laws. It creates legal uncertainty, legal uncertainty, but neither in the theory of the structure of law is it allowed, so I'm reading to you. Article 79: "On the day of entry into force of this law, the Act on Tourist Activity ceases to apply", which in itself is understandable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The State Inspectorate Act, which is not acceptable at all. Because the State Inspectorate Act is a full law and needs to be amended by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Inspectorate. Of course it is a formal remark, but it speaks of the preparation of the law for the Croatian Parliament, so that we do not vote what we do not want, which is not acceptable. And finally something that I think is as important as protecting economic interests, it is a particular issue of language protection when it comes to tourist escorts or tourist guides. The text of the law says he must know Croatian. From the sea to the sea, there's a big difference. And what he needs to know must have a certificate of that knowledge. This means that a tourist guide except that he must know history, culture, etc. has to have a certificate not to know but to speak Croatian. This is a condition without which a tourist worker's leader cannot lead a group in Croatia, I think it is a rule that does not disturb or that is not discriminatory towards the citizens of the European Union. Since I am not a service provider but I am looking at the law on the other hand, I think it is very important, I repeat again, to protect economic national interests in these services, especially interests in culture and language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78341	Thank you. Just in 18.04, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. We have one correction, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lek incorrectly interpreted me when I spoke about citizenship related to the European Union, of course, that means citizenship of the Member States of the European Union. There's no over-European citizenship, it's clear to everyone, it's the same as when you go to airports, so I... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is quite clear that I spoke on behalf of the club about the citizenship of the members of the European Union. Don't impute something that doesn't stand and that wasn't in the spirit of my exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78343	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Krono Peronja's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78344	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the Law on the provision of services in tourism is one newspaper that, in fact, the new law fully regulates relations, rather than numerous and released amendments and additions to existing regulations. This is especially because the Act on Tourism Activity was passed in 1996 with only some minor changes, and more importantly, I would say that they were implemented by the State Inspectorate Act and therefore because of legal certainty, because of the modernity and because of the regulation of all the cases to be covered by this law, the Proposal for a Law on the provision of services in tourism came at the right time. What I particularly want to point out is the very chapter relating to tourism services in special forms of tourist offer, especially when you see problems regarding the location of travel contracts that shiprs, in quotes I would say, which were interpreted as exclusively allowed on a waterfront or via a tourist agency. Therefore, the clear and unequivocal nomotechnical provision shall be made possible by the ship's shipowners and directly by the place of the boat's berth. So that as ships sail and provide services, they cannot offer service to other potential users. In order to protect users of services and to ensure the equal position of service providers on the market, it is necessary to limit the type of services of travel agencies that can be carried out by shipowners without the establishment of a tourist agency. In this fourth chapter, Articles 44 to 45, 46, 47, it is very precise to say what nautical tourism is, and because in recent years there has been an increase in the number of sailors in every respect, from yachts, boats and to the port of nautical tourism, there has been a kind of boom that should have been arranged precisely and what can legal or physical persons, when they can begin by providing tourist services in nautical tourism, which are the type of port of nautical tourism for the accommodation of water facilities and which is harmonised and in accordance with the laws of the sea, or with the provisions on the classification of ports. Of course, it is also necessary to take into account exactly how the conditions for the provision of such services prescribed by this law and the regulations adopted on the basis of it may be decided on the fulfilment of the conditions. Here, in a whole series of articles, it is stated exactly what it is and how it can be considered to be, that the conditions for carrying out the activity are met. In particular, what should be pointed out other than the application of the Law on Mandatory Relations but what is particularly regulated by the guarantee for the package of arrangements, because so far it has been very often that the travel agency paying was obliged to provide one for each package of arrangements... from a bank or insurance company, and that's exactly what pays a passenger's cash compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Prices paid, return expenses. In cases resulting from the insolvency of the Agency which occurred after the conclusion of the travel contract. This is in the first row of a provision that actually protects the user of the service, in order to immediately and in Article 19 of the liability provision, the obligation of travel agencies to conclude a liability contract for damage caused by the passenger by failure, partial fulfilment or irregular fulfilment of the obligations relating to the package of the arrangement. It is in the function of protecting passengers, but also in the function of protecting the tourist agency itself. It is very clear and precise in several articles of the proposed Law that a small step is taken in the direction of decentralisation, especially when, as stated in Article 75, it is considered this Law, which is a touristic whole and, of course, is said in a sentence, it is considered the area of the county, or the City of Zagreb. Because the more individualities, specialities and visibility should be incorporated into this bill as well. There are also clear and tax-based criminal provisions relating to the right person, to the person responsible in the legal person and to the natural person. It is very precisely listed for which types of penalties are pronounced, in what way and in particular the impressive work of efficiency and provision that, in the implementation of inspection supervision in tourism, an economic inspector will use the oral solution in the minutes, and I am stressing this by a "ordinary solution", until identified shortcomings are removed, and, as soon as possible, prohibiting a legal or physical person from further providing persons in tourism within 30 days. Of course, he will also issue a written correction later on, but this is precisely because of its effectiveness and because of the seasonal performance of the business in order to really raise to a high degree of professionality, visibility and security, both for the service user and for the service provider and in one sure way create conditions for this law to be applied, effective and that the authority can impose such a good legal solution. He would also point out that in Glava V, other tourist services where others are said to be other tourist services within the meaning of this Act are the rental of accessories and equipment for sport and recreation, such as sandolines, sailing boards, water bikes, and in particular Article 3 where the law says again, the representative body of the unit of local self-government prescribes the conditions and places to provide services. It is increasingly seeking and seeking to create responsibility for both other places and for municipalities in which they can regulate their decisions what the legislator has left them to make. It is also very clear how and how the administrative oversight of the application of this Law works and all the regulations adopted under this Act. And it is always put first and foremost on the place of responsibility for the administrative oversight, that it is the Ministry, while, unlike administrative supervision, inspection oversight of the implementation of laws and regulations adopted on it, the economic inspector and other inspectors act on it. I agree entirely with what the proposer was about to say. Business space and devices and equipment should be made in accordance with the Law and regulations and all tests. If they do not have it, they must not do it, and the inspector should not do it. This applies from the day of entry into force of the cases that will appear. Those who do what they do so far can't be banned. They're working because they've acquired certain rights. He would also make one more remark or suggestion. Here in Article 3(4), under the conditions laid down in this Act and regulations on the basis of tourism, health tourism can provide health care facilities and I agree that with previous speakers, it should be a little more precise to determine what and how, which are special hospitals for medical rehabilitation. For example, one of the oldest statutes in tourism is a stock society, a hygiene treatment society on the island of Hvar, which was adopted 138 years ago, and that is why health tourism has started to be created, which has an echo to this day. It would not hurt a little more to describe and say what is meant by this point in Article 3(4) and what are health care facilities and tourism, which are more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78345	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78346	Namely, I just wanted to thank my colleagues Peronji for this initiative on health tourism. I really appreciate it. So we see that not only in the northern Adriatic, but also in other parts of the Adriatic, we have such institutions that we can raise ourselves with. And what my colleague Leko said, when the tourism market is liberalized then our comparative advantages must be maximumly highlighted, and here we are strongest. No one can compete in northern Europe, Scandinavia and the continental part of Europe with regard to micro-environment, clean atmosphere, no allergens, just what we need to exploit to extend the season. Because health tourism doesn't know the season. We use these services and provide them for 12 months a year. Same with cultural tourism. I always know how to say, you know, tourism is when someone walks into a tavern and breathes alcohol money. Tourism is when it goes into the disco and that smoke atmosphere, so it enjoys it, it's tourism. But tourism is not to God when someone is inhaling a clean pair of water, I mean sea water, when it heals, rehabilitates its airways, it's not tourism, it's funny, you know? So it's not about medical therapy, it's about providing and using the services that God has given us in this area that we really offer them. The same goes for nutritionism, for what Hungarians do. They primarily, their tourism lives on what, from selling their national meals and drinks. Both Croatia and that segment must take a step, and nutrition is again a story to itself because it is again part of health tourism. Mediterranean diet, low cholesterol, vegetables, fruits, etc., olive oil is what can further fertilize this offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78347	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78348	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me make my own point to support this bill in my first reading, although I have some individual ones on it, and otherwise... The Commission notes that [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first principled remark that would apply to this bill concerns actually motive, one of the reasons why the law is passed. Among other things, it is said that the plan of short- and long-term measures to combat the grey economy, etc. there is a need to tighten sanctions for the violation of this law in order to combat the gray economy. It won't stop the grey economy, you know, but it'll actually boost service prices in the gray economy and increase. Always if a grey economy is to be contained, it has to be caused, not the consequences. We punish the consequences, not the cause, and in this context we need to clarify some things that are deeply related to people who provide tourist services because they cannot legalise, cannot solve business, tourist space, catering space etc., etc. or I don't know because of the slow work of state or local authorities, and often because of their neglect so in such a situation actually providing these services continued further for a simple reason because what they couldn't legalize cannot be reported as a craft in which they would work, I can't get proper papers to do so. For this reason, I believe that our restoring ministry, together with other competent ministries, should actually see what to do to solve some of these issues, not only in coastal, or tourism at sea, the Adriatic Sea, but also in our continental tourism mainly in rural households, given the new changes to the Law on the Protection of Animals, where they are asked to be the appropriate dimensions of the facilities where cattle will be held, for example, by tourists visiting a rural household. Now how you're going to legalize something that people have been building years before, and for which it didn't have to have the right building permits, or the right papers, so it's going to need something in that segment to do. The second principled remark is related to actually transitional and final provisions. It's inconceivable to me, you know, that we're going with, for example, a natural person in nautical tourism needs to comply with this law of his own within two years. We will pass a law by which they will not actually have to work for another two years but will work according to current regulations or in Article 69 or 68 that tourist agencies must comply within one year of the entry into force of this Act with the provisions of this Act and other than those relating to the terms of the employment. Therefore, the entire tourist season will not practically apply this Law or will not be implemented. Therefore, the question arises as to why we have put these and measures and rigorous things into place and, say in the transitional provisions, it is said, among other things, that within 6 months, the implementing rules will be adopted by the Minister, if they are not adopted, those who are not contrary to this Law will be applied. Now who is authorised to establish that the existing implementing rules under the old laws are contrary to this law? It's not the competent ministry, nor the government, it's competent you know the Constitutional Court itself, etc. Hence, serious problems arise in such a situation. The third group of objections is related among other things to the provision of tourism services in the peasant economy or the family holding, but on this example it can be shown with other service providers actually on an important issue. Namely, when a minister under this regulation can adopt a special regulation that will prescribe the conditions and means of providing these services we wanted or did not want we actually give the minister the authority we cannot give him, which is that he can arrange or limit part of the entrepreneurial freedom and functions of the provider in the rural economy or I do not know in specific other forms of providing tourist services such as hunting, fishing, sports etc. golf tourism, but also in other activities nautical tourism or down at sea. You see, the question is, what does the constitutional provision mean that ownership and entrepreneurial freedoms can only be restricted by law. Therefore, this cannot be done by the minister and we would have to prescribe in this law at least the upper and lower borders in which the minister moves in the regulation of these conditions and criteria. Otherwise, if someone takes a serious turn, it will fall in the Constitutional Court if the constitutionality of these provisions is raised. That's number one. The number two, of course, in relation to that principled remark, appears immediately in itself and the additional observation that this Law is bound by the referring norms authorised by the Minister to adopt regulations and other acts governing the conditions, ways of passing expert examinations for the Head, not knowing or knowing about the Expert Exam, examination for the Head of Business, etc. to provide conditions and ways of providing tourist services from the rural economy to nautical to any other tourism. I think it's personal that we should still bring it down to one more normal or should I say narrower limit. First, the number of regulations the minister makes is too high. Secondly, the minister wanted to, did not want to enter I pointed to the restriction of entrepreneurial and ownership freedom in the sphere which actually puts him in a position to restrict the freedoms that can otherwise only be done by law, not regulation. Third, the issue of co-operation, inter-resorship cooperation of individual ministries in certain segments, should be raised. The fourth is the question of relations with public organisations, i.e. organisations that have public authority and authority, such as a university or a high school, where a solution is taken from the old law, by which the minister will form and appoint a commission at an appropriate university to pass an expert examination of the Head of Business. So now what does a diploma of that same school mean without that exam, you know? We believe that, in fact, the minister here, if we want to talk about it, should, together with the Ministry of Education, Education and Science, adopt an act that will establish a programme for passing an expert exam, etc., determine the number of members of the examination committee and which is then designated and appointed at certain universities which part of the work is carried out if we trust high schools. This does not mean that it is not possible to pass such an expert exam assuming that someone completes the appropriate schooling and acquires adequate training, a school preparation so that he can be held by the state body. He may also have his own character of a administrative solution, it's not just this, but then it's a different concept, it needs to be set differently. Therefore, this is somehow between trying to withdraw the state and at the same time ensuring public institutions with public powers that this issue is actually not specific to Europe and the world and that this interspace should be regulated differently. Let's just say, I'm just an example for example, mentioning article 54. The Minister may, by a regulation, prescribe, with the opinion of the Minister in charge of the area covered by a special form of tourist offer, minimum conditions for the implementation of certain tourist services referred to in paragraph. Now look. For example, today we had a debate about the Arms Act, where among other things it is prescribed how hunting weapons can be carried, separately each rifle in a separate suitcase, each ammunition separated from that smoke, etc., and now you have hunting tourism where a hunter from another, a country where such a regulation does not apply. The question is how will the Minister in charge of tourism handle this issue together with the Minister of Police when the issue is actually settled by law. It is therefore impossible to address some issues without entering a very serious analysis and resolution. Furthermore, it is quite interesting that the penalty prohibiting the provision of services in tourism for a period of 3 months to a year referred to in Article 66, in so far as all the infringements referred to in Articles 61 to 64 are concerned. Now esteemed colleagues, if you take all these violations, then you will notice that there are also some that relate to pure satisfaction in formal legal obligations, not material legal obligations related to the provision of quality and way of providing services. It doesn't make any sense to take a man's right to work and provide services. It should possibly be fined, but it should not generally be taken over all of these violations referred to in Articles 61, 62, 63 and 64, which include you know "x" points, I did not count them all, but it is a lot of them, in which the responsibility to forgive such provisions may be denied to someone until one year, and then, of course, after that, in paragraph 2 of this Article, an exception to the prohibition of the provision of services in a tourist agency with more than one business space is imposed only in the business space or business in which the offence was committed. And how can you know that now that the business is not a legal person? So we need to think about making things clear to the end to come to some solutions. Then, of course, it is very good and it is in line with the European Union directives to introduce a package of arrangements. However, there is a rather interesting issue to be addressed in Article 5 where it is said that the trip covers a journey of up to 24 hours and does not include overnight. And then in a package of arrangements when doing it sports, school clubs, alliances, unions, associations, pensioners is now a trip exclusively for their members can last 2 days including one night, you know. Then it's not like that. You should specify that the trip one, the other should actually solve everything differently because this... is some general provision that precedes all these implementing provisions further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then there is a question of travel relations organised by amateur sports clubs and alliances to prepare and compete do not apply the provisions of this law. That's not true. Amateur sports clubs are legal persons registered under the Association Act as a sublaw on associations can also be registered for the provision of tourist services. If they are registered for this, the provisions of this law should also apply to them, but this is again the exception that needs to be resolved in particular and that they should get the approval of this tourist agency leader, which should be prescribed by the ministry. Thank you very much. I apologize to my colleagues for extending it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78349	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Rade Ivas's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78350	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on the provision of services in tourism, which should replace the Act on Tourism Activities, which was adopted by the Assembly in '96. A year. Although this Law on Tourism Activities has not been changed more significantly, the legislator decided to draft a new draft law, respecting the extent of the necessary changes, which would surely have decided to change caused some ambiguity in the regulations and would certainly have caused difficulties in applying such a law by legal, physical persons both domestic and foreign. Similarly, the applicable law does not fully comply with the legal gains of the European Union and the non-compliance concerns an obstacle to the free provision of cross-border services in the part concerning the provision of services of natural persons. Thus, according to the draft law, Croatian citizenship will no longer be a condition for certain tourist activities, for example, the work of a tourist guide will be possible for foreigners in Croatia. It is one of the important newspapers that adopts the proposal for a law on the provision of tourist services. But here I would like to adhere to the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, which says that here, however, it should be prescribed that tourism activities with Croatian citizenship can also be carried out by citizens and the European Union states. It means there's one restriction. The law regulates the provision of tourist services from the work of tourist agencies to the rental of boats. A number of newspapers for working with which they will have to be harmonised within a year of the date of entry into force are being introduced for the business of the tourist agency. One of the major newspapers is also a significant financial commitment that the Agency must provide. In fact, the agency undertakes to ensure that any package of arrangements is guaranteed by the bank or by the insurance company for the compensation of passengers. I believe this provision protects not only users of services but also the agency itself. But one of the key innovations in the proposal for this law is the introduction into the law so far unregulated services such as providing sports recreational or adventure activities, skiing, diving, sailing, riding, rafting, etc., whose offer is in significant increase due to the growing interest of the tourists themselves. What are the actions in implementing these programmes can lead to certain risk situations for the health and life of users. I believe that it is necessary to intervene the state and to regulate it by this law and to prescribe who this programme or expert prepares for those implementing this programme. I'm sure this is meant to reduce the risk of an injury or an accident that could happen with these services. It is good that this law regulates the issue of providing certain tourist services by associations, schools, educational and educational institutions. However, I believe that here it should be added and obliged to reduce illegal competition with agencies that these institutions are also obliged to publish their terms, contents and prices and adhere to them, all services. They are also obliged to issue to the user an account, a travel ticket and the like. The draft bill also defines the legal possibilities, but also the obligations of the shipowners. In practice, so far, there have been some misunderstandings regarding the place of conclusion of a travel contract organised by a shipowner, which was interpreted as exclusively allowed on a waterfront or via a tourist agency. The proposal for a law aims to make it possible to sell by ships and directly only the place of transport. It is good that Article 7(3) also prohibits shipping, so on and so on. "buckers" are selling out of place or near the water facility itself, and I would disagree with Mr. Markov, who said that it should be possible for the bookmakers to sell elsewhere. We are aware of the facts and all the problems that arise during the summer when these excursion sellers, bookers, sell and compete on the beaches to tourist restaurants, and I think it is good to disable this, so there may be even more penalties to not comply with these conditions. It is also good that Article 49 describes opportunities for certain agricultural or similar activities, which can be carried out as a special form of tourist offer in the ordinary farm economy and family holding, and is mentioned in the law as picking fruits, harvesting fruits, renting horses, etc. The bill also prescribed a number, which in the same way, the number of guests who at the same time can be provided with a service and says 50. Is that the most optimistic number, maybe another unit should be, for example? We know that the guests are driving by bus, maybe as a bus it would be one unit because we have a bus of 30, 50, 60 places, maybe it would be good to think about it. The law continues to propose, and in accordance with the plan, measures to combat the grey economy and the national consumer protection programme, higher fines for offenders who illegally provide services and in this respect give greater authority to the economic inspectorate, which is good. It is good and I think it is good that this bill seeks to resolve the introduction of a register into tourist agencies and guides at Ministry level, which increases the responsibility of travel organisers, introduce mandatory liability insurance. And since the new law seeks to achieve full compliance with the legal gains of the European Union, the obstacle to the freedom to provide cross-border services will be removed in the section concerning services in tourism provided by natural persons and citizens. All in all, I believe that this bill is good and that it will probably after this debate... and make comments and that the motioner will study all these remarks, that he will eventually carry out the supplements and that in the second reading we will probably get an even better quality and better law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78351	Thank you. We have replicas. First Mr. Tonchi Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78352	I really don't understand why I should make it impossible for the boaters to offer their offer anywhere but in front of the ship. If someone has an office in town and wants to sell excursions in their office, I don't see any reason to do so, instead of, as the law here suggests, doing so exclusively in front of the ship. Well, my people are fighting for a market economy, and it's normal for a solid competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78353	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78354	Well, I agree with Mr. Tadic in part, but when I'm talking about this problem, then I was talking about bookers wandering around the beaches, restaurants and selling these excursions. That's what I was talking about. These bouquets should simply be banned, because they create a mess, a fight, so there is a fight on the beaches. In that sense, I felt it was necessary to disable the bunkers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78355	Replica, Mr. Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78356	Well, my replica mostly refers to the same problem. Namely nautical and charter tourism is our specialty and in fact by disabling the booker from and transferring exclusively services to agencies, it is created, in fact it promotes a kind of monopoly. In your quote, you mentioned bookmakers that create riots on beaches, streets, etc. etc. We can vulgarise things to infinity, but that question needs to be resolved whether by any regulation, whether by the way they behave, whether they are in a way of doing business. But in any case, by limiting, or by preventing a booker's way of selling capacity in, say, charter or in this part of nautical tourism, it's limiting entrepreneurship, and I don't think that's the way it should be asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78357	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78358	Okay, it's about the same problem, and obviously we're not, we don't have the same opinion. I'm speaking from an experience, a place, from where I'm from a tourist resort where this problem is being seen, where we have problems simply uniting local self-government which is authorized to issue permits where they can do it simply causes these problems, conflicts, and I think that just the team, in fact, would solve that problem. Not getting into that problem that's gonna limit freedom, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78359	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Vladimir Stengl's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Often we stay found, we receive data with infidelity and doubt, that some countries are making a much higher income than Croatia, with a comment, and they do not have to. That's right. And if they had no seas, to make more traffic in summer, not in winter, and they would expect the opposite because they apply to ski destinations, some of them are only slightly bigger than Croatia and much more that the surface view doesn't exactly make them a sensitive advantage, but they are simply ahead. It is therefore necessary to make certain efforts to reach the level of tourism services of these and such countries. This bill provides a legal framework for this, but also requires greater professionalism and raising quality in the provision of services, reducing the grey economy and working on the black already known dark side of the Croatian economy, a reduction which then enables the increase of the state budget to lead to further development of special forms of tourism offers. I would like to remain especially on this very particular tourist service in special forms of tourist offer from the perspective of continental tourism or just some of its parts. It is evident that the tourist offer in the north-east parts of the Republic of Croatia is relatively weak despite the fact that it is clearly large opportunities. There must be a recognition of several headquarters, a destination in that space, but it is far from what can be provided or offered. It can't all end, and it usually ends with a jackal orgel and a Kopački rhythm. I think the example of nautical tourism is significant if that's even a good term for the river, that's where I'm going a little bit because it's the Danube River. Before the war in the 1980s, it was evident that the number of ships descending from Germany and Austria, including Hungary, was constantly increasing. It increased year after year. But what happened? These vessels did not fit at all in Vukovar, with Ilock the only city in the Croatian part of the Danube because the regulations then simply did not allow it. And the boats went by, of course, the money went by. Another example. The traffic of tourist ships was intense again by German and Austrian agencies and they were still just passing without docking. Once upon a time, one ship agreed under special circumstances. These are ships, you probably saw and can be seen here and there on television, capacity 150 to 200 passengers. The war ended it, and it started again at the end of the 1990s, and then there was a NATO attack on Serbia, the destruction of bridges, and it stopped again. Fortunately, however, the break did not last long, and the traffic of tourist ships in the Danube has increased sharply and is constantly growing. However, they now agree in the Republic of Croatia. Passenger landings have been arranged in Vukovar, Ilock, for Osijek even though the problem is quite often due to low water levels. Just one piece of information, 187 of these passenger ships have been recorded this year, but we have continued to deal lightly with the opportunities provided and offered. An agent of the organizers of these voyages or shipowners requires the safe supply of these ships to certain items, not a small amount, not for small money, guarantees a minimum of three times a week that it will happen within four or five months. He asked for neither caviar nor champagne, but ordinary products, mineral water, wine, towels, toilet paper, vegetables, fruit, so nothing special. He went to a lot of trouble when he found the company that agreed to that arrangement that you imagine paid off. The answers were mostly not worth it. This is just one example of offer opportunities in these areas and it is more than certain that the opportunities are far greater, sport fishing on freshwater, rural tourism including fruit harvesting, harvesting crops, harvesting fruits and vegetables, and possibly even those pigs, are now constantly mentioned, pointed out hunting tourism, wine roads and up to some numbering of birds or so. Only colleague Doric, not here now, he mentioned that we were freed from allergen. I'm fenced on it for that part of Croatia because with ambrosia we're abounding, and then we can't rely on it too much. And in order for all of this to work, a legal framework is also needed, the rules of the game, which are in line with the legal property of the European Union and enables it. Of course, until the second reading, supplementation or correction is possible and desirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78361	Thank you very much. Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. He's not here. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78362	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! In fact, I don't really understand myself very much about this tourism and the acts relating to tourism, but I do feel like we've missed something in this law, or I would love it if my discussion might also be an incentive for some things that seem to be missing in the law to be introduced. Namely, this law allows the organisation of travel to associations for their members as well as educational institutions, etc., then it is said to be subject to special conditions. Now, these special conditions are defined in Article 6 if I read well what has been proposed to us by the Government and then these special conditions say that these trips may be up to two days, up to a maximum of one night, that this can only be done occasionally and without the purpose of obtaining profits and that the promotion cannot be done through means of public communication. I would like to contextise this whole article and associations in terms of the two largest youth associations in Croatia and for young people in the world and in Europe, it is about the hostel alliance or the World Hostel Federation and the Boy Scouts. Both are NGOs working on a non-profit basis which can then, in this sense, work solely on these terms. Both associations that are not European but world-renowned associations especially for youth tourism do so exclusively for their members and exclusively in their facilities. These organisations are in no way able to fit into this provision of yours because they are doing it because it is not their primary activity, which is now quite a trend and I can say in Europe, it is a question of youth mobility, cultural exchange, etc. where they simply cannot work with one night when, by some definition, they work more nights, when they are advertised in the media etc. There were problems because their activities are not even in line with the Law on the Food and Tourism Activities, since they must not work as non-profit associations, it seems to me to be a problem that the three of us talked about three or four years ago, but this problem is still not solved in any way and I think that in some way in Croatia, if I may take this opportunity, we are in some way disdaining the value of this entire youth tourism. I am ashamed enough to say that in Croatia we have only a few hostels that are in very poor condition and that it is actually a very popular way of travel in Europe and everywhere that these young tourists who come to Croatia would give them a chance to come to hostels or such accommodations that are adapted to young people would, of course, stay and, like, go back and as guests when they come out of that category of young people, when they get older. And from year to year, regardless of all this, we are a very closed market, according to that group of young tourists, or all of that youth tourism that is primarily going towards the hostel and fairy union. So it would kind of make some exceptions for those two associations because it's not the usual to make exceptions for one or two associations. I have to admit, I haven't talked to either one of them, but it just occurred to me today reading this bill. But maybe you should consult them somewhere because it really is about the largest youth associations in both Croatia and Europe, and in the world, and it would be stupid for us to restrict such action by our provisions of the law. Because far from that, not that we should not limit but rather, we should actually make regulations that would just promote such a way of tourism. Here, so much that I had to tell you about this bill. I would pray that it is somehow included in this law when another reading will be made, or that we do, somewhere you plan, I hear about these amendments to the Law on Food and Tourism activities for years so we cannot get these changes that relate to them legally being able to work in catering and tourist activities, scouts in their camps and these hostels in their youth hostels because I think it really doesn't make sense. The second question is that I do not know where it belongs and which law has now appeared because of what within the framework... hostel associations have very few facilities and it is not regulated it all expensively followed by private persons opening various hostels and it happens by very amazing categorizations, very miraculously they are somehow getting into associations or not getting involved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So maybe this is as an incentive for a far-off segment to actually resolve the very market itself that is extremely important to us. I think it is important for us to attract young tourists, everyone uses it except of course Croatia, which I say is pretty bad. I say, on the other hand, a lot of resources for these purposes can be withdrawn from European funds since... The European Commission's programme as one of three seems to me priority activities have mobility for young people who are just talking about everything I've been talking about today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78363	Thank you very much. We've got six other MPs and an attorney, so here's the final hearing tonight. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. begins Mr. Bozidar Pankretic, then Mr. Anton Perusko and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78364	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the session, the proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Antun Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78365	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the Ministry. Already speaking on behalf of SDP, counterpart Antesic pointed to some of the goals that the law aims to achieve. There's more. I do not want to believe that the sole aim is to enable foreign citizens to carry out their activities, and there has been a lot of talk in this assembly. I think this law also wants some positive effects. For example, payment of guarantees for arrangements and compensations in the event of non-execution of arrangements, which is certainly positive. Then it's specifically about the so-called. "fish" picnics, which I will say something about in particular, and have already been discussed by colleagues in front of me, counterpart Tadic and other colleagues. I will also state my position, even though the promoter has received extensive evidence and attitude from the Croatian Shipowners' Association. Further to what is being achieved by this law is putting so-called. adventurous sports under surveillance, which I think is good and criminal sanctions in terms of increasing penalties for violations of the provisions of the law. As regards opening up the possibility of carrying out activities and foreign citizens who have so far been able to perform certain services themselves, it is obvious that this law cannot retain existing provisions and that we are all slowly aware, however, in this system of liberalisation we should do what opportunities allow us to do in the sense that foreign citizens can carry out these activities in Croatia. Well, there have also been talks here about Croatian language knowledge and the question is also about the rules on obtaining, obtaining and maintaining a course for obtaining permits which in some countries of Europe, according to the knowledge that I have come to contact tourist staff, these courses take 80 hours in our country, and there are some countries in Europe where courses last for 600 hours. I think that on the basis of supply and demand, it will be valid to intervene in both regulations and regulate that matter. A few concrete remarks and suggestions since this is about first reading. There have already been quite a few in this assembly, so I would like to add "these institutions in culture and sports associations" to article 3, paragraph 2 of this law. That's what colleague Marija Lugaric talked about yesterday. The possibility of providing these services for two alliances, the Union of Scouts and the Hostel Union has been omitted and I, in particular, would not repeat it because, already, the representatives of the Ministry have heard these objections, but I would particularly add sports companies in Article 3, paragraph 2, and, analoguely, an appropriate change in Article 6. Because it's impossible for sports associations if we want to maintain a sport to allow them just two days and one night. This is possible and sufficient in terms of Croatia's size for regular competitions. But what about the tournament way of the competition and the like? I think that this possibility should certainly be incorporated into the law and I expect the proposer to install it until the second reading because it is mainly about amateur sports associations. In the adoption of the Sport Act, there were a lot of calls for provisions that, in some ways, amounted to about 700 million kuna, I would not say goodbye to professional clubs. I believe that in turning these professional clubs into stock companies that these 700 million mere dictionaries cannot evaporate, but at this point professional clubs have received certain security unlike amateurs because by adopting the Law on Sports, we have also passed a provision on the law by which the debts of amateur sports clubs towards the state budget are frozen for a period of 5 years, but in practice it seems quite different. We have concrete examples where the jury-accounts of amateur sports associations are blocked because of the debt of the state budget, such as the Unity Club, the Youth from the Council of Sunday in Istria, where they are blocked by a jury account due to 400 thousand kunas from the state budget, and I cannot solve this problem unlike professional associations, clubs that I can say so in peace of sleep. In the definition of Article 5, paragraph 1, paragraph 5, the provision is too broadly defined both in view of the applicable laws and in view of the general practice. The promoter certainly had no intention of making it impossible for tourists to be alone with some kind of... They're looking at the localities in their hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a possibility is given to tourists in the world's most famous museums. It is easily possible that a quoted provision will understand and try to apply it by referring to the provisions of the law, so it would be worth seeing how much that provision provides for what is common in world practice. Although I fully agree with the provision in the law where certain localities should be protected exclusively for domestic tourist guides because such practice is in Europe and Spain and France, and according to some information in Italy there are about two and a half thousand such sites that are protected exclusively for domestic guides. In providing nautical tourism services, I think that restrictions can only be made for reasons of safety of navigation, rather than disabling some of the activities where the initiative and business of our people should be expressed. I see no reason why an individual as a natural person could not carry out the activities of renting pedals, sandolins and other marine props other than skiing on water. I can see that the time is approaching so I will have to shorten, but as far as the shipowners are concerned about the possibility that the bookers are carrying out their activities, I am aware of the fact that my colleague Ivas was also talking about, comes from such an area, but I also know from my 30-year practice that these are the negative effects of pulling tourists by hand on beaches, etc. However, when a solution to such a problem is not seen, it should not be dealt with in the way of ban. I think there's a modality in which it can be made possible. A colleague, Tonci Tadic, was saying why some boatman who owns his own office in the city couldn't do it, and I'm extending it. Those offers at some localities would never have come if there weren't any of those bookies. Of course, this does not mean that at a locality, for example, the Riviera near Porec in Tar municipality, where 15 thousand people live a day so that the booker can't offer those services on some kind of stand and thus eliminate the negative effects that they have actually experienced in the operation of these bookers. However, the positive effects are much greater and should not go to bans, but should find a way to comply with one... behavior. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as far as the last one is concerned, given that time is running out, the Croatian County Chamber of Commerce also provided certain remarks regarding the tourism services of rural economies from Pula related to Article 49. So expanded is now retained in the quoted provision of the proposal, and what is not accepted is the processing of fruits and fruits, vegetables, harvesting is envisaged but no processing is foreseen, such as the processing of fruit, fruit and vegetables, salting of fish. Then, picking, drying and processing mushrooms.../President: Please conclude!/...... self-indulgence and healing plants, and beekeeping and fishing and it would be good to consider this proposal by the second reading so that this activity can also be processed... an appropriate provision of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Time's running out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78366	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78367	A respected colleague of Peru speaks here about how we must liberalise our market and how that is one of the facts, one of the trends that we must reconcile with in one way or another. This market is conditionally liberalised in other tourist countries and I am very interested in how it works in a Greek way. How can someone from the side come as a guide to Greece? How can someone on the side come, say, as a shipowner and perform excursion tourism services in Greece? It's almost impossible, of course, that nominally everything is liberalized, but they're practically obstacles so that nobody gets into it. So all European liberalisation processes are actually based on two mechanisms. One thing is, there's no discrimination that anyone can call you for, but it's actually all done to fit the most of yours, and on the other hand it protects the public interest. Nowhere in this law, and that's what I'm going to talk about afterwards, is the level of protection of national pride that the Italians have that only Italian can be a guide to several localities. It is similar for Greece, seen similarly for the United States, seen similarly for Japan, for any other country. Where national pride is concerned, a national heritage guide can only be a domestic man, no matter how much someone from a related country or highly educated. That's why we have to take care of it, but more when I'm discussing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78368	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78369	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Tadic is about the same thing as my thinking and the attitude I expressed. The control mechanisms must be just you, and among other things, I was talking about the possibility of changing the rules on knowledge acquisition, harmonising it and installing control mechanisms to the extent possible by not running away from the reality of life in today's world and in today's Europe. I also fully agree with you for certain localities. I said, among other things, in my debate that there are about 2 and a half thousand such sites in Italy that are intended for tourist guides exclusively for citizens of Italy, i.e. in this particular case they should be protected and protected and allowed to be at these sites and national pride and other significant localities in our country to allow the job of guides exclusively for Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78370	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78371	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of Tourism. Reading the introduction to this law most surprised me, not to say a smiling thesis that this law would lead to a reduction in the grey economy and black labour. Unfortunately, therefore, tourism with a very specific understanding of the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has shown all the features of the story. So what's this about? Therefore, as we have heard before, as declared by the Croatian Government, Croatia must liberalise its tourism services market, so it is one of the consequences of this law that is before us. Of course, it is said that the existing law that regulates this is not fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. It is also mentioned in the avis of the European Commission that the service market has not been well liberalised, etc. etc. But the question is whether this is indeed their market for services and, otherwise, tourism has been liberalised by others who are our competitors in the Mediterranean. So, Italians, Greeks, Spanishs, Malteses, etc. All of these liberalisations always take into account the protection of their own business, i.e. the domestic service provider, and the most common rules governing the area are such that they are the same for all. That's the whole point - they're the same for everyone. But they're designed to satisfy exactly the average domestic bidder. Well, then that stranger can hardly be incorporated. On the other hand, always in all agreements, as well as in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which so far is the only existing contract between Croatia and the European Union that we must respect in it is also the protection of public interest in all chapters, as well as in the chapter of the free provision of services. But there's something else. Croatia is said to have a rapid liberalisation of services within 4 years. So nobody says we have to do it this year or next but we have to do it by 2009. And that is why it is really unclear why the deadlines for the application of this law are this fast and this fast because we do not see at the same time a European approach that would allow for example our boater to provide excursion services to Italy or Greece. Of course we can only dream of it. And that this moment is impossible, and even if it were nominally possible with some European regulation or agreement that this would actually be complicated by some local implementing measures. What am I trying to say is that it's a dubious struggle to contain the black market? It is that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has left the possibility for managers to arrive in Croatia for a short period of time, so short-term management staff and it is tolerated and no special work permits are required. However, this has resulted in a truly caricature situation in which some 3,000 so-called 700 people live in Croatia annually, according to estimates. A season-necessary expert. So the manager eats and drinks is actually the chef of the kitchen. The guest reception manager is actually the head of reception. And so there's a whole series of managers. So far, there's no shoe-cleaning manager and boating, but we'll get there. So, we are really crawling and agreeing to all the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement by reading them in a way that corresponds to those who want to break them we are doing it to open the Croatian market completely unnecessary for such manipulations. And now that 600 of those in Croatia are added to work permits. 3,000 700 and those who are in Croatia on the so-called a special permit for which only the permission of the Ministry of Tourism is sufficient, not by the Ministry of Tourism and tens of thousands more of those working on black in tourism during the season. We're approaching 15 thousand seasonal workers in tourism. So it's not harmless at all. Secondly, it is even less harmless that most often when it comes to the liberalisation of services in all previous examples of countries that have entered the Union talk about migration of about 2% of the population in border areas. The problem with us is that our entire tourism has concentrated on the Adriatic coastal area and it is not a matter of who will provide me with services in this border area where Croatia makes up the main income of tourism and where most of the population really lives on it. So it doesn't matter who enters the service market on the Adriatic of all possible outboard services, from renting pedals to renting some speedboats for adrenaline sports, from tourist guides to boaters. And not to list all the other favors. Therefore, for Croatia it cannot be any difference, and therefore it is necessary to install in this law grain or invisible measures that will ensure the advantage of domestic service providers because otherwise we can say freely by liberalising how it is imagined here to destroy the domestic market of services in non-board-board tourism services. There are, of course, the good parts of this law. Finally, it tries to regulate the market for these adrenaline sports, recreational tourism and the like. Although to be honest, it's not quite clear what professional exams mean. How is someone gonna pass an expert exam that's an expert on bungy jumping? Or what kinds of adrenaline tourism can we allow? Is it perhaps a water polo among sharks, one crew with blue caps, and the other with white, capless sharks? I mean joke aside, but I don't know how someone's gonna be qualified for some new kind of adrenaline party to let him do it. Of course, there is again a question of insurance, to whom he is responsible, who pays insurance, what is the image for that place if such sport is allowed, and a couple of tourists suffers, we witness every year that we suffer a dozen people from drowning because we do not have an efficient rescue service at sea. We lack a voluntary coast guard, or rescue service that the Italians have. So it all goes into one general picture of the security and offer of our tourism which, of course, comes out of the framework of this law. But let's get back to the law. So when it comes to regulating adrenaline sports, it definitely needs to be done and it's good that it's headed that way. It is necessary to specify how the declaration of expertise for that type of sport is achieved. And clearly define who is responsible and who pays insurance for tourists who deal with it and who still have places to go if there is an accident. It is also necessary to clearly declare who may be the guides. And now we get to the craziest part. Someone can be perfectly educated as far as Croatia is concerned, they can even pass a professional exam. But this country must have this level of pride not to allow one truly bizarre situation in which, over a few years, Montenegrins will lead American tourists from Kotor in Dubrovnik. Or some guy from Panchev's Hungarian tourist in Vukovar. That wouldn't be acceptable in any country, and I hope it won't be here either. But that means that the part that talks about guides must be written far more precisely. It is a condition of course for all of these services listed here as knowledge of Croatian language. I don't know what language anyone thinks of working in Croatia. In English? Italian? French? He must know the Croatian language well, and it is already the first barrier. And the second is that, indeed, in Italy, 2,000 500 places because of what they do in Italian heritage, the guide can only be Italian, no one else. Therefore, the guide in Vukovar and Dubrovnik, ladies and gentlemen, can only be Croat. So there can't be a choir because they'll... Bringing us into an absurd situation that the Montenegrin in Dubrovnik says here they attacked us, that's where they beat us up, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't afford that, it's completely clear. So no country allows, so neither do we. It is simple to specify which locations are of particular interest to the heritage of the Republic of Croatia and that they can be guided only under special conditions. You can't even walk into some of the trafficking sites just like that, especially if you can't be led by anyone. You can enter the former Imperial Palace in Kyoto only after 15 days and of course you can't be led there by an American but exclusively by a representative of the ministry. So these are the details that need to be taken care of, so the law has a good intention, but in some things it's really scarred. I was talking about the boaters yesterday. So why limit these people to selling their services only in front of the ship if we really want to develop competition in tourism. So there's a whole series of remarks, listen to them please and write a more quality final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78372	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78373	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Tadic, at the end of your presentation in one sentence, what you may need to pay more attention to in this law, which is precisely for services in nautical tourism. According to this proposal, the law introduces mandatory intervention of the agency in sales, advertising, contracting of these capacities except in some small cases where it is allowed directly and I believe that in that part, it is in this part that the law needs to be changed, therefore because this way is being affected by entrepreneurial freedoms, therefore in the entrepreneurial freedoms of that for us an extremely important segment of tourism. Why not, for example, shipowners, or shipping companies that are trained and able to sell for it themselves, advertise at fairs and services, their services, but rather need a mediator, or agency. Well, in that part, I think we should certainly pay a little more attention to and respect the remarks of the Croatian shipowners' association that the government probably has on the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78374	Replica response, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78375	Even a few months ago when I, along with a couple of colleagues here, raised my voice against the pressure on Croatian boaters, that is, when we asked them to get rid of paying for road and highway fees, we also talked about the conditions of their business. Of course, the inevitable part of every maritime country, and Croatia is a maritime country, is also nautical tourism. He's trying to get along well with this, but I really agree with you, it's become a part of this when it comes to boaters. Why would someone if they were a shipowner, not be able to organize their own offer outside the ship itself. Bringing them back to space in front of the ship means literally killing them. So someone who comes to Split has never been to Split, doesn't know they're only tied up in front of a train station, let's say they're found around the church of St. Frane either at the market or Diocletian's palace. If he does not have the opportunity to buy or find out that they are there, he is indeed completely out of the possibility of boarding that ship and taking advantage of those excursion services. So with that, it's really gone too far. We think that it is better to regulate it according to the Croatian shipowners' proposal, they will also have a whole series of meetings these days, but I remind you this is still the law in the first reading and I believe that colleagues from the Ministry of Tourism are closely following what we are discussing and that the final version will still be better quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78376	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78377	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Ministry. I would very briefly refer to, or withdraw one parallel between the draft of this law and the Law on Attending, which we brought somewhere in the middle of this year or the other half of this year and whose substantial changes actually regulate the liberalisation of a complete, or complete liberalisation of the market in this activity. According to the Law on Restaurants, foreign citizens are fully equalised as citizens, I stress as citizens in renting rooms and apartments in Croatia with Croatian citizens. The same thing, therefore, is happening according to the proposal of this law. So a foreign citizen as a citizen is fully equalized in the provision of services in tourism with a Croatian citizen. I would not like to be declared xenophobe, but I would like to warn of some consequences that such a neoliberal approach could cause in Croatian tourism. What could happen? First, it is possible that in such a way, there is a sudden purchase of attractive land on our coast when various emissaries are buying huge quantities of squares of attractive land to eventually sell and convert it into building land similar to for the construction of apartments. What's going to happen? So, in this way, it is driven indirectly, even though we are declaratively against, but it encourages the apartmentisation and sale of land. After that, Croatian hotels as is unfortunately already happening, for example. in Spain, they will have no one to host but apartments to be built, filled, so foreigners will build apartments, fill them in and then Croatian hotels will no longer have anyone to host. I would simply like to have the same conditions under which Croatian citizens in Austria can deal with this job. So as a citizen, rent apartments, i.e. to deal with tourism services under these same conditions, foreigners can do so in Croatia, and under today's conditions we, or not only us, but also the other citizens of the European Union, cannot deal in such a business in Austria. So they can't, formally they can't, but there are such things as Tonci Tadic, as Tadic spoke of it, there are a number of formal and real obstacles that in some ways make it impossible, i.e. national governments to protect their national interests. And I stress once again, under the same conditions under which Croatian citizens can deal with this business in Austria, under these conditions I represent that Austrian citizens can also deal in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78378	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78379	Comrade Antesic, it's not just the Austrians. We have witnessed that the Hungarians at Vir were entitled to build an illegal house and rent these houses and apartments, not to pay anyone taxes. If this law remains in this form it will not only be a precedent, it will become a practice. And as the European Union wants us to actually wish that tourism services can also be provided by one who is not registered in Croatia, that is, a trend, we can really put ourselves in an absurd situation where what is on Vira will be a sweet mother according to what is yet waiting for us. So that's why I want these things to be clearly specified here and to impose such conditions that it will be really impossible. I repeat, if tourism is really so important to Croatia, then I expect it to be a quality debate as is being held today, but also to make quality laws that will protect domestic service providers that they really take most of the cake from the tourist offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78380	Replica response, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78381	Thank you very much. I would like to point out again here a case that is very current on Bratsch these days. What's this about? Citizens were paid to pay taxes on construction land that was very high and therefore, the figures were very high and they found it in wonder. It's about the numbers 30, 40, 50 thousand kuna that, of course, many citizens can't pay. And there's been a panic, but what's going on. Right behind the canton are waiting for various emissaries who offer to pay those people who can't pay that tax to buy at a small price that land for which to pay the tax. I refer to this as an example of what happens when it is not protected, or when this liberalisation of the market is encouraged, or what happens when national interests are not protected, when it comes to local government, with a country that encourages, or government that promotes such laws and activities that can happen, and right here these days we are witnessing such phenomena in Brač.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78382	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78383	... I gave up and I gave up that I gave up. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78384	Thank you. Honorable representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78385	I would like to thank Mr. President and the Ministry's representatives. The proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism is certainly one of the key conditions for improving the overall tourism traffic in the Republic of Croatia. The current Law, which was passed in 1996 and which had only two amendments, is certainly not enough anymore, which is due to a change in the market for services, which is due to the lack of compliance with the acquis of the European Union. I therefore welcome the adoption of a new law because amendments and additions to the existing law would only deepen ambiguity in the application of the law. By harmonising legislation with the acquiss of the European Union, the provision relating to the free provision of cross-border services is amended in the section relating to the provision of services of natural persons. The current Law stipulates that some of these services can only be provided by Croatian citizens, and in order to comply with European legislation, it was certainly necessary to amend this. The legal regulation also regulated the issue of liability insurance for the execution of contractual obligations by the travel organisers. Amendments to the applicable Law are also necessary in order to comply with short- and long-term measures to combat the grey economy as well as to comply with the national consumer protection programme. Those measures shall primarily provide for higher fines for infringements concerning the illegal operation or provision of services and by conferring greater powers on the State inspectorate in such cases. The adoption of a new law on tourism activity is also in line with the Croatian tourism development strategy by 2010. Tourism as an economic branch and the provision of tourism services is subject to constant change and adapts to the needs of modern man. So today tourism is no longer just sunbathing and swimming and visiting tourist destinations. Today's tourists want an active holiday that includes the provision of sports-recreative and adventure services such as skiing, rafting, diving, parachute sailing and a series of other activities that are not legally regulated. The participation in such activities also brings risks to the health and life of users of services, and therefore it is necessary to regulate that area by law, i.e. clearly define who can provide such services, who can provide them and under what conditions. The aim of the legal regulation of the provision of such services is to enable them to be implemented with an increase in the safety of users of services. Legal regulation of the provision of such services will certainly have a positive impact on the quality of the provision of such services as well as on the overall tourist offer and development of tourism as a very important economic activity. The proposed law also more clearly defined and prescribed the provision of tourist travel services for individual associations, schools, educational institutions, public institutions that manage protected natural areas, but only for the purposes of the areas they manage and the ways in which tourist services can also provide institutions in culture, health centres and others. For the sake of the emergence of new forms of tourism and the provision of services in tourism such as health tourism, rural tourism, wellness tourism, hunting tourism, diving tourism, cultural tourism and others, I believe that the law should be more clearly regulated and defined as anything that falls under those forms of tourism. We recently had an example at the Congress of the Croatian Association of Hotelers and Restaurants to hear an example that the hotel which was advertised and provided wellness services that actually had only one massage table and one masseuse. I think it is not appropriate to advertise and offer wellness services in tourism in this way. This law also harmonizes the provisions of the European Union and abolishing restrictions in the presence of foreign travel and business organisers of travel agencies in the Republic of Croatia. Opening towards a foreign market will certainly improve the quality of services and the work of travel agencies, but it should not forget to protect our travel agencies, so that the arrival of foreign operators does not endanger their vital interests. I think that particular attention should be paid to advertising and selling tourist services via the Internet. As useful as technology progress is and allows faster availability of information and cost reduction at the same time, we also have the opportunity to find a range of services offered by agencies or societies on which there is virtually no information or even where their headquarters is located, or where they are registered. In order to protect consumers, order should also be introduced in this area. More and more often in the tourist offer, boat trips are also offered, and I welcome the fact that the service providers are allowed to sell excursions with the place of berthing or boarding a water facility, but that they do not come to a much more favourable position than the other agencies involved and should be able to sell such services on equal terms. The adoption of the proposed law will certainly create better conditions for the provision of services in tourism and facilitate the application and understanding of the law. Legal provisions are also harmonised with the legal acquis of the European Union, the professionalism and the raising of quality of service provision is increased and the grey economy and work on black is reduced, thus increasing the state budget. Clearer provisions of the law facilitate the business of legal and natural persons. In any case, the bill was necessary and I think it is good, and the second reading should take into account and consider all the observations made and consult all interested entities in order to adopt a better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78386	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78387	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's my dear colleague, I've been listening in detail to what you've been saying, and I agree with that, but when you've spoken and mentioned the services to the associations, I believe you'll agree with me that, just under the association of some concepts you should explain, and when we say that associations can be organised, that associations can only organize a journey occasionally and without the purpose of acquisition, then the notion should be defined occasionally, and that in a way that must be said in that part of the journey which is the number of trips per year and whether that number refers to the entire legal person or to each individual business unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78388	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78389	Thank you. My colleague, I fully agree with you on the fact that some things should be more clearly defined. I have held that in my debate and brought it forward, and I believe that this is exactly the kind of debate that is good and useful because this is the law in the first reading, and I believe that representatives, or legislators of the law, will take all our remarks into account, and it is precisely the goal of all of us contributing together from the final proposal of the law to be the way it will be best quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78390	Second replica, Honored Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78391	Thank you very much. I am pleased by the calming tone of my colleague Irene Ahel, but I would like to replicate when she spoke about the consequences that will arise from the adoption of this Law to bring the law into line with the legal acquis of the European Union. In part, I would agree with this, but surely there are deiures in the European Union and de facto different solutions that protect the national interests of certain countries more. Secondly, it will increase the revenues of the state budget. Only if a colleague thinks that the penalties for infringements of the provisions of this Act will increase dramatically, that it will facilitate the business of legal and natural persons. I think that unless they are regulated in a way that takes into account the observations that came from the Croatian shipping and Croatian travel agencies that will just reverse, that will complicate the business of legal and physical persons, there will be further development of special forms of tourist offer. The claim is highly doubtful, and there will be greater employment very questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78392	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78393	Thank you. Well, here's counterpart Antesic, you said the budget would only increase by fines. So it is not true that it will only increase by penalties because if clearly regulated what is possible, what can be done, what cannot be done, of course, that the powers given to the state inspectorate and the increase in penalties will affect the grey economy. It is not only the aim of charging more penalties and thus increasing the budget, but of creating legal frameworks to curb the work on black and gray economies. This should be the objective of the law, not by increasing, or by charging more fines, to fill the state budget. And as for the fact that you said you should protect yourself, I also said in my presentation that we should protect our domestic providers of such services, but we must also comply with the European Union's gains. I'm not saying there may be better examples, but we're here to contribute together in this debate to finding the best solution and to support every proposal that goes that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78394	Thank you. We're going to five minutes of club debates. HNS club, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78395	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. During this debate yesterday and today, two basic issues were essentially crystallized. Is it one question to liberalise the tourist market yes or no and the other is the question of anything that belongs to tourism services? I must say, regarding this first question of liberalisation, is there any fear of liberalisation? I think so. Fear is justified, but we must wonder why this fear is justified? Namely, if our tourist offer and tourist services remain at this level at which they are today without me, I would say any creativity at this level and at this level of coordination, then we should really be afraid of the liberalisation of the tourist market, but I am sorry that some colleagues have spoken more or less about it precisely by calling them external enemies of Croatian tourism. He's got them. Many foreigners on our coast and in this economic segment behave very incorrectly. However, I think we should have devoted at least two-thirds of our time to those internal enemies of Croatian tourism. I've known many people at the head of tourist communities in our cities for 30 years. They haven't changed anything, they haven't added anything, they haven't designed anything, and so tourism can't go forward. Our complaint yesterday in the debate was that this bill doesn't really change anything either. Everything stays in the triangle between the hotel, the beach and the inn. We have not given any space to what we call health tourism, cultural tourism and many other tourism segments where we see that there is plenty of space. That's where we're untouchable. We are stronger here, stronger than any European competition. I guess we know how to use our traditions better, our specifics. Our doctors have been using seawater for inhalation purposes for hundreds of years to treat and rehabilitate various diseases. They add essential oils. It's a natural product again. Why would that be health care? Why wouldn't that be health tourism, because that's where it really belongs. This started Croatian tourism a hundred years ago. The same goes for cultural tourism. It's worth the same thing. There would probably not be many questions asked by Mr Tadic if we categorized these cultural institutions, normally so that they would then provide these services and not someone could come to this museum, provide services, visit these institutions etc. So we need to make a very big effort here and surely that the arguments that we've been making these two days should be respected, big changes should be made. I'm just gonna say one more thing that I tried to sum up yesterday. If it's for us to breathe alcohol money in a tavern of tourism, if inhaling smoke cigarettes is in some disco tourism, then why wouldn't tourism be breathing clean seawater in some kind of wave therapy? It must become part of our tourist offer. We can't put those special hospitals, that knowledge, that experience, that tradition out. The same goes for our nutritionism. The same goes for many other areas. This law in order to pass in the second reading will have to experience important changes. Let's not just look at what's threatening us from Europe. Let us look at what threatens us from our tourism and try to make fierce changes there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78396	Thank you. For the club IDS, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78397	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The IDS Club welcomes the adoption of the Tourism Service Act and we would like to believe that the discussion under this first reading proposal will greatly contribute to the adoption of the final proposal of the Tourism Service Act complements this proposal and creates a way to contribute greatly to the progress of tourism as a whole. If the basic issues to be addressed by this law are the provision of services in tourism, entities that can provide services in tourism, obligations of entities providing services in tourism, conditions for providing services in tourism, the procedure for establishing conditions for providing tourist services, special forms of tourist offer. I fully agree with Mr. Doric, who mentions health and cultural tourism and I can say that cultural tourism has begun to take steps as we all expect in Istria. Of course, we must not forget anything else in all of this. Dear counterpart Kramaric mentioned picking up and picking up and enjoying the truffles. These are all offers that we need to think very carefully about because what is happening to us today? We have truffle pickers today but we don't have the same pickers as those written, signed to know who's dealing with it. We have people who come from various parts not only of Croatia but from all over Europe who do this very lucrative work. And know that the day will come when the truffle will be no more, if this is how it is done. So this, along with this proposal, should be taken into account as one of the examples. If the consequences resulting from the adoption of the law are greater professionalism and the raising of quality in the provision of services, the harmonisation of the law with the acquis of the European Union, the ease of application and understanding of the law, the reduction of the grey economy and the work on black as I mentioned earlier. So we have to have certain things whether it's going to be concessions, whether it's going to be some other form but in any case preventing a gray economy and working on black. Easier business of legal and natural persons, further development of special forms of tourist offer, better protection of users of services, greater respect for legal provisions, then this law is very welcome. And I don't think there's any doubt that we need the Tourism Service Act. I believe that in this parliamentary discussion of the first reading, we will warn of the shortcomings of this proposal and that we will complete this proposal with quality proposals in order to finally get a good law. In a speech I spoke on behalf of the club in 15 minutes of exposure, I mentioned and entered some of the articles. Today, since I only have five minutes, I'll just say a couple. In Article 5, certain terms are used in this law: travel agency, traveller, package arrangement, excursion, tourist unit. We are missing a travel organiser who will also be included in the amended package directive of the European Union. Namely, the organiser is the person who sells or offers for sale at least one of the services made by the package arrangement on his behalf or through intermediaries under its real control and which allows access to other services that make up the package arrangement. Not to go further, I would like to say, and to note that it is necessary to take into account the opinions of the Association of Tourist Agencys which have had a lot of objections to exactly what is going to happen to the agencies, with boaters. Of course, in particular take into account the views and views of the shipowners carrying tourists and that individual legal solutions must be amended because they are placed in the legal frameworks of the so far unregulated and present services, or by abandoning those services that no longer correspond to the development of the Croatian economy. So, one more time. The IDS Club welcomes the adoption of the Tourism Service Act and we would like to believe that the discussion of this first reading proposal will greatly contribute to the adoption of the final proposal of the Tourism Service Act complements this proposal and creates a way to contribute greatly to the progress of tourism as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78398	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78399	Thank you very much. A respected colleague said the law would contribute to the smooth development of tourist services in certain forms of tourist offer. They're just indicated. If there is a precise clarification and the creation of conditions for health tourism, congress tourism, rural tourism, wenness tourism can really develop on legal solutions rather than by the intruding of certain environments that have gone a little further, then it will be a total step. This will still remain at the level of whether there are more or less environments or infrastructures in some environments to develop certain types of tourism. So, it's a good thing that in Istria happens in terms of step-ups but it should be passed on to the whole country and not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78400	Okay, thank you. It's no longer a correction, let's move on. Honorable representative of Ante Mark's Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78401	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Tourism is definitely one of the most dynamic phenomena that has almost invaluable importance for the entire Croatian economy. Since 2003, Croatian tourism has participated in a gross social product with over 23% and its participation ranges between 20% and 23%. So it's about one phenomenon that's very important in economic terms. Does such an economic phenomenon require a serious legislative basis on one side, and does such a state of affairs need and can satisfy us? Is the fact that we have a growth trend in total tourism income, that this year it will move somewhere at 19-20% of gross social product, or 7.5 billion euros, can it be considered good, how good or unsatisfactory? A response can be given to this question through this context to the proposal for a law on services in tourism. Why? Most of the tourism income is still being recruited under the so-called so-called ". The Adriatic swimming pool. The largest potential this country has is not exclusively related to the Adriatic aquarium in a touristic sense. The greatest lack not only of tourism legislation but also of overall practices lies in the fact that the resources that today's modern tourism has not been used in Croatia. And therefore, all of the additional forms of tourism services that apply to the simplified area must be stated very precisely in the second reading. The limitations that exist at this point in the so-called rural rural or green tourism is not a good door to knock on to create a strong basis for the development of tourism in continental Croatia. They didn't because they predicted too many restrictions for which we at the HSS Club can't see the reason. Why limit the number of 50 when visiting rural family economies if, due to a certain type of tourism activity, it can also be a larger number? Why limit rules that we know are sometimes a burden on the law itself because they don't come in time and create great difficulties for all who act and work in tourism. Therefore, we need to strengthen two lines entirely. The first is that we must rely on our own products and also on our own people. We cannot allow almost most managers in our Adriatic hotels not to speak Croatian today. Croatian speaking maids, cooks, waiters, porters, these others are unfortunately not speaking Croatian, they are used in other European languages. That's good, but it's not good because in ten years' time, we'll be just service servers on our own shores in hotels that used to be ours. Therefore, this law, regardless of its scope, must also take into account the strategic important consequences that will arise from it on the one hand and on the other, must create a material and legislative basis for tourism as the most aggressive activity in continental Croatia as well, to identify our resources from Vukovar to Varazdin, to place these resources in one total Croatian tourist offer, which will definitely, if it is seriously launched in the next ten days, represent the same material base as the Adriatic swimming pool, which, as we have said and under such conditions, account for 20% of gross social products. This means that the potentials of tourism are huge, but whether we know how to use them or whether they will be used by foreigners by sending their goods here that will be consumed by guests, it is not up to them, it is up to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78402	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78403	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting an incorrect allegation, or two distinguished colleagues, of Markov. According to counterpart Markov, Croatia has an annual tourism income of 7.5 billion euros this year. Unfortunately, that's incorrect. No, it's so registered and most of it comes out of Croatia because they own foreigners, because the banks are foreign, so it just gets the impression that we make 7.5 billion that we don't make money. And then you're right that with us tourism is a phenomenon, not an economic branch, which should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78404	Second respected representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78405	So I come from the most developed Croatian tourist region, but that Croatian tourism gives 20% of gross social product to me, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Markov, I just don't believe it. Tourism is a low-accumulated branch. In 15 years, I read it, but I don't believe it. In 15 years it hasn't been built on 6 kilometers of our coast more than... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78406	You're not correcting the credentials. You're correcting the false allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78407	And it can't be Mr. President to correct the wrong quote... 40%... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78408	Please sit down, Mr. Cain. Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Tonci Tadic, five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78409	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of Tourism. If tourism is one of the important branches of our economy, then it deserves if nothing else qualified debate in the Croatian Parliament. It is being led, but it is being conducted around only one segment of tourism legislation. It's hard to get tourism into one single law, of course, but you'll forgive us for having two laws, a law on services in tourism and a Law on hospitality that covers this specific area. We believe that it would be better to go to the legal hierarchy, that there is the Tourism Act and then from it laws that do certain parts of services in tourism. Whether it's about those who are being treated here or whether it's about that mere caterer. The whole law is motivated by the harmonisation of Croatian legislation when it comes to service activities related to tourism, the European Commission's demands, or European norms, as we like to be said. The problem, however, is that Croatia is in a hurry to do this too faster than what imposes a Stabilisation and Association Agreement on us. If this agreement says that Croatia needs to liberalise its service market within 4 years, then we do not have to come out and do what they do not allow on their tourist market of another tourist country. There's always talk about how this law is actually going to stop the gray market. On the contrary. We believe that if the law remains as it is possible to develop a very imaginative black market, not only with its economic interests, so the employment of our population on the Adriatic coast and in all tourist areas, but also with the aspect of protection, protection of the image of the Republic of Croatia from tourists coming to Croatia. Croatia of course offers tourists as a whole product. Like a country with its geographical location, with its own indigenous food. With its cultural and historical and natural monuments. Of course, all of this requires quality people to present Croatia to tourists in the best way. But if other countries, for example, have realized that it is unacceptable for them to present these natural beauty or cultural and historical sights from anyone other than the local tourist guide, then Croatia must work in such a way. Also, when it comes to the liberalisation of our tourism, the service market must always be liberalised so as to leave sufficient opportunities for domestic service providers, or the law must be written so that it does not give discrimination but that it still gives the domestic service provider a chance to survive on that market because these measures will be written to it. When it comes to guides, it would be inadmissible that it is very easy to understand this problem that in a few years in Dubrovnik, tourists of the American, English, Japanese waters of Montenegro or that some type of Pancheva guides tourists in Vukovar. The condition for providing services in its Croatian tourism must be Croatian. I don't think that's where we're looking too much. Croatian is the official language in the Croatian state and without knowledge of Croatian language cannot be employed in any part of the tourist business in Croatia. We were unfortunately witnessing that in Hvar in certain hotels people on the phone responded in English or that only English or German was spoken at the reception. It's inadmissible and it needs to be interrupted. It's not about harmless law. It's a law that covers a huge number of people involved in tourism services. If we liberalise this area, we can count as other countries on about 2% of migration in our border areas, and in, when it comes to the Adriatic, it can be fatal for a large number of our people. I also warn once again of poorly solved services when it comes to shipmen. They have to get a chance to expand their offer, not just in front of their ship. For all these reasons, we believe that the law should support that these areas are finally regulated, but we are very reserved according to the individual solutions offered here. Please make a better law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78410	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78411	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP club believes that this law is a good attempt to resolve the activities of tourism services and will clearly support it in its first reading. But also other clubs so far say we are reserved according to some of the solutions offered in this law. The law was created as, instead of the 1996 Tourism Activity Act, and it is in percentages, saying almost 90% identical to the existing law, with the fact that it is the most important news that this activity is fully liberalised in accordance with the European Union guidelines. Therefore, foreigners are allowed to perform tourism services under the same conditions as Croatian citizens. We feel as the SDP Club that there is a need to find better solutions to protect Croatian national interests and I would ask the promoter to pay more attention to this by the second reading. Secondly, in this section, in the part of nautical tourism in which SDP has particular objections is the introduction of the agency's intermediation in advertising sales and contracting services. This was obvious by the Croatian Shipowners' Association and they have very interesting remarks and I would also ask the Proposer to include them in this law until the second reading. And they generally come down to the fact that agencies are created not by obligation but by partnership, so that shipowners can do so on their own if they are trained to advertise, sell and negotiate their services. Then define a more modern way of providing services via the network, so the Internet, Internet deals and so on. Costs of adapting the new law not to fall on the burden but of existing shipowners who are qualified to carry out these activities and obligations of the Minister when adopting the rules resulting from this law to consult the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Also, the Croatian Travel Agency Association has shown this law and the purpose of the objections it has made to achieve greater control of institutions, clubs and other associations that are engaged not on the profit basis of this activity. Thus, to prevent abuse and better define the position of tourist guides. We consider these remarks as a good basis for the adoption of quality law in the second reading and, in that sense, the SDP Club will support this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78412	Thank you. HDZ Club. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78413	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is once again, at the end of this debate, we would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism. We would say that some open issues are finally being resolved in this area and that order is really being introduced in providing tourist services. In addition to aligning ourselves with the legal acquis of the European Union and to the SAA, we must say that this Law will indeed allow for greater professionalism and quality raising in the provision of services. It is clear who, where and how it can provide tourist services, and it is clear what conditions it must meet in order to get permission to provide them. The implementation of this law will ensure a reduction in the grey economy and work on black, and thus increase revenues in the state budget. It is also negligible that users of tourist services will also be better protected because it is the obligation of the service provider to inform all users fully and accurately about the content of the services they provide. I would especially like to refer to two proposals from the Croatian Democratic Community, which apply specifically in the first instance to tourist guides. For example, in Article 27(2), the tourist guide should have at least medium professional equipment. We believe that this should be raised by one level higher, i.e. it should be noted that the tourist guide should have at least the highest level of expertise because we really believe that whoever explains and interprets our cultural, historical and ine value must indeed have as much education as possible. We understand that this area is missing a lot of employees and that it will not be easy to cover the entire area with higher expertise. But we think it would take as much as possible, the higher the level of education. We should add in our opinion and conditions of citizenship. In order to pass an expert examination for a tourist guide in the European Union, one who wishes to join the expert exam should have the nationality of one of the members of the European Union. Therefore, it is our proposal that the criteria, i.e. between the conditions, also appear the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and the nationality of a Member State of the European Union. So this is our proposal and we ask that it be considered as well. And of course, we especially welcome this definition of tourism as a special whole, which deserves to be interpreted exclusively by those who are truly undermined for it. Here, once again, in the end, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this bill and we believe that with these improvements and this whole debate in the final version, it will indeed be a law that will allow for better business for everyone, for all entities in tourism and for a better service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78414	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78415	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said the proposed law would reduce the grey economy. Unfortunately, that's incorrect. In the bill there are no solutions to address the issue of the gray economy at all, and we know that it accounts for between 11 billion and 15 billion kuna in Croatia annually. So we're up for it, but unfortunately there's no law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78416	And a respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78417	It is not true that it is a good solution to be guides from the European Union, because we are going to be in an absurd situation to have an Italian guide in Hvar claim that the Hvar theatre was built by Venice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78418	Final Review State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Zdenko Mičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78419	Mr. Honorable Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs. So here, on behalf of the ministry, I thank you for all the debates that have in principle supported this bill. It's about first reading. We will certainly respect all your proposals and constructive criticisms. I hope that in the discussions with professional associations, with hotelers, boaters, agencies, we will find quality solutions, improve the bill and that we will have very good quality solutions in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-29-0.u78420	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the vote. Proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism, first reading, P.Z.E. The debate is closed. I give the vote the conclusion: The proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimously with 79 votes in favour, a proposed conclusion.
